Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
£  22 Z1 7T -7 -
Report No. 7998-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1990
Southern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted disibution and may be used by recpients only In the pedromance of
their oicidl duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authoron.



CURRENCY EVUIVALENTS
-(J nuary ISM0)
Curr#ncy Unit - Tanzania Shilltng (TSh)
US  1.00 a TSh 198
TSh 1000 a USS 5.18
SDR1.00 = US1.82
MEASURES
1 Meter (m) = 8.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2) = 10.76 Square Feet
ABBREVIATIONS
nmU         a      Book Man8aement Unit
CIDA        =      Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA      =      Danish International Development Agency
DED         a      District Executive Director
DEO                 istrict Education Officer
DETF        a      District Education Trust Fund
ERP         =      Economic Recovery Program
ESR         =      Education for Self Reliance
ICB         a      International Competitive Bidding
XCD         =      Institute of Curriculum Development
MDA         a      International Development Association
IOU         a      Institute of Development Managoment
LCB D              Local Compotitive Bidding
MANTEP      =      Institute of Mana_gemnt Training for Education Personnel
MLO         a      Ministry of Local Government, Comunity Development,
Cooperatives and Marketing
ULID        =      Ministry of Labor and Manpower Devolopment
MOE         a      Ministry of Education
MOE/OPL     a      Ministry of Education/Deportment of Planning
MOE/DPE     a      Ministry of Education/Department of Primary Education
MOE/DSE            M Ministry of Education/Depertment of Secondary Education
MOF         a      Ministry of Finance
NETF        a      National Education Trust Fund
NOo         a      Non-Covernmental Organization
NORAD       a      Norwegian Agency for International Development
ODA                Overse*s Development Adminiatration
OCL         a      Open General License
PCT         a      Project Coordinating Team
PECO        e      Primary Education Coordinating Office
PER         a      Public Expenditure Review
PMO         =      Prime Minister's Office
PPS         =      Project Planning Section
PSAP        a      Priority Social Action Program
REO         a      Regional Education Officer
SEDU        *      School Equipment Development Unit
SIDA        a      Swedish International Development Authority
SURT        =      School Maintenance and Rehabilitation Tear
SOE         =      Statement of Expenditures
SSA         =      Sub-Soheran Africa
TES         =      Tanzania Elimu Supplies
TRC         a      Teacher Resource Center
TTC                Teacher Training College
UWS         a      University of Dar es Salaam
UDSFE        a     University of Dar fs Salaam Faculty of Education
V/T         a      Vocational and Technical Training
IDA FISCA  YEAR          : July I to June o
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR        July 1 to June 80
SCHOOL YEAR              : January to December



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA                                                      i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUHHARY .........................           ii-iv
I. INTRODUCTION ..................                                   1
A.   THE ECONOMIC AND POLICY ENVIRONMENT .....      ................ 2
B.   GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES FOR THE EDUCATION SECTOR ........... 3
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR: PRINCIPAL ISSUES, LESSONS FROM
EXPERIENCE, AND PRIORITIES FOR NEXT STEPS .....     ............... 6
A.   PRINCIPAL ISSUES .....................-                    6
Basic Characteristics of the Education System     . .   6
Primary Education        ....................... a
Secondary Education ...................................... 10
Financing of the System .................................. 12
Unit Costs ...............................15........ 1S
Management of the System      .................... 16
Other Issues         .......................... 17
B.   LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE ................................. 18
Projects Supported by the Bank     .      .8............... l
Projects and Activities Supported by Other Agencies ... 19
C. PRIORITIES FOR NEXT STEPS                 .        .        20
III. THE PROJECT ...........     ....................................... 26
A.   OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION ....................... 26
B.   DETAILED P.,JECT DESCRIPTION ............................ 28
OBJECTIVE A: Strengthening the Institutional Capacity to
Plan and Implement Educational Policies and Programs..... 28
Management Training ...................................... 28
Improvements in the Information Base ..................... 29
Education Research ....................................... 29
OBJECTIVE B: Improvement of Education Quality ............ 31
Strengthening the Institute of Curriculum Development. .. 31
Improvements in the Teaching of Science ....... .......... 32
Textbook Development Program ............    ................ 33
Development of Primary School Textbooks        .    .     35
Development of Secondary School Textbooks       . .    37
Development of School Libraries ...........    .............. 38
OBJECTIm C: Strengthening the Mobilization and Effective
Utilization of Non-government Support for Education ...... 39
Developing a Comprehensive School Maintenance
Strategy for Primary Schools ............................ 39
Support to Community Financed Secondary Schools .... ..... 41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World ank authorization.



IV.   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT ....... 44
A.    PROJECT COSTS            ........................ ................... 44
B.    FINANCING          ......................         ......................... 46
C.    DISBURSEMENTS ............................................ 48
D.    PROCUREMENT .............................................. 50
V.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT,  InPLEKENTATION AND REPORTING  ....                         ......... 53
A.    Project Management  ...................................... 53
B.    Implementation  Schedule .................................. 55
C.    Monitoring,  Reporting and Evaluation  .................... 57
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS  ........................................... 58
VII. AGREEIENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMHEND&TION ................... 60
ANNEXES                                                                                  Page No.
1    Issues Considered During Project Preparation .................  62
2    List of Documents in the Project File ........................  67
3    Structure of Education  in Tanzania ...........................  69
4    Educational Statistics .......................................  70
5    Primary School Time Table ....................................   73
6    Textbook Production  Issues ...................................   74
7    MOE Timetables  of Diversified and Upper Secondary  Schools....  81
8    Public Expenditure on Education ..............................  83
9    Graphs of Government Expenditures on Education ...............  90
10    Description of MOE Management Structure ......................  93
11    Financial Scenarios  for the Year 2000 ........................ 106
12    Project Management Arrangements .............................. 115
13    Job Description,  Manager of SEDU and
Head of Science Curriculum Team ......................... 123
14    ICD Requirements under the Project ........................... 125
15    Steps  in Improving Science Teaching .......................... 130
16    Detailed Requirements of Science Improvement Program ......... 135
17    Proposed Textbook Production and Distribution Processes ...... 138
18    Projected Impact of Primary School Textbook Component
on the Government Budget ................................ 142
19    Selection Criteria for Primary Schools  To Be Rehabilitated... 144
20    Primary School Rehabilitation Program  ....................... 145
21    Terms  of Reference of Construction Management Consultants...  149
22    Criteria  for Community  Secondary School Participation ........ 150
23    Detailed Project Cost Tables ................................. 154
24    Project Implementation Schedule .............................. 155
25    Detailed Financing Plan ...................................... 158
26    Disbursement by Financier by Semester ........................ 159
27    Technical Assistance Schedule ................................ 160
MAP: IBRD No. 21702
Ti report is base on Uu fitndhs of  ro-appralsa and appralsal missom that visited Tamania in NEVS-r 1988 ad
1989. Tlu appraisal mIssion coprbIed LeonordD ConcePcicn (Sr. ArchltectProJect Implanentation Specialist, Mission
Leader) Anmn Dock (Ccruant on Scinmce Exation). The pro-eppraisal mission omprised Himelda Martinez (Sr.
E,ator. fissIon Leader), Peter Ib,ock (PrIncipal Htm  Resces Econlst), Alfon  de Gjzman (Comultant on
Textbooks), Leonarbo Copon. tand Aln Dock. Mral Mills (Sr. Eooist), rony Read (Consultant on Textbooks),
lhr Kemp (Consultant on Lbrarles), and Peter MaIf (Consltant on PrintkV) contributed to the preparation of th
projsct. Hope PhillPs and Mora Atba assisted In procesng the report.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Population (1988)                           23.2 million
Population Growth Rate (1987-2000)          3.4Z per year
GNP per capita (1987)                       US$180
Literacy (1986)
Male                                   92.9X
Female                                 88.02
School Enrollment
1987
Primary Education (Grades 1-7)                              3.2 million
As percent of age group (7-13 years)                            78
Lower Secondary (Forms 1-IV)                                 104,046
As percent of age group (14-17 years)                            3
Upper Secondary (Forms V-VI)                                   6,192
Technical Education                                            1,675
University                                                     3.395
Teacher Training                                              11,667
Expenditures on Education
As percent of total expenditure (1987)                           8.7
As percent of GNP                                                4.0
Primary Schools
Number of Schools                                        10,428
Teachers                                                95,503
Pupils per Teacher                                         33:1
Secondary Schools
Number of Schools                                           245
Private                                               142
Public                                                103
Teachers                                                  3,185
Pupils per Teacher
Private                                              23:1
Public                                               14:1
Teacher Training Institutions
Number of Colleges                                            39
Number of Students                                       12,409
Graduating Students                                        5,615



ii
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:        United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiaries:   Ministry of Education and Ministry of Local Government,
Community Development, Cooperatives and Marketing
Credit Amount:   SDR 29.0 million (US$38.3 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives and Description:
The project would support the Government efforts to revitalize,
reform and rehabilitate the education system by: (a) strengthening
the sector capacity to plan and implement appropriate and effective
educational policies and programs; (b) improving the quality of
instruction at primary and secondary levels; and (c) strengthening
the mobilization and effective utilization of community resources for
the upgrading and selective expansion of educational facilities.
The first objective would be achieved by:
(a) improving the training of education managers at central and
local offices;
(b) supporting improvements in the information base available to
education authorities, with special attention to systematic
collection and analysis of school performance indicators,
efficiency measures, and cost and financing data;
(c) strengthening the capacity to undertake educational research and
to use the results to plan sectoral improvements; and
(d)  supporting studies necessary to assist Government efforts to
update the existing national educational strategy.
The second objective would be achieved by:
(a) strengthening the Institute of Curriculum Development which is
the source and arbiter of all teaching materials used in
Tanzanian schools;
(b) improving the methodology for teaching science courses in
secondary schools and providing the necessary teaching materials
and adequate low cost equipment;
(c)  further developing the capacity to prepare, distribute, and use
relevant textbooks; and



iii
(d) upgrading existing university, teacher training and secondary
school libraries and initiating a small pilot primary school
library extension project.
The third objective would be achieved by:
(a) developing a comprehensive school maintenance strategy, training
district units in school building and maintenance, and
rehabilitating dilapidated primary schools in under-served rural
areas with assistance from communities; and
(b) providing incentives to increase community efforts in financing
the establishment of secondary schools, by establishing a
National Education Trust Fund to provide resources to match
community investments in these schools.
Benefits and Risks:
Benefits. The project would assist the Government to initiate a
process of rehabilitation and reform of the education sector, with
improved capacity to plan, manage and finance the delivery of
education services. Efficient systems for improving the quality of
science courses, and for producing and distributing relevant
textbooks, would be established. Approximately four times the
current number of students enjoying access to textbooks would be
served with suitable textbooks, and improved school facilities would
be made available to about 200,000 primary and 16,000 secondary
students. Graduates of primary and secondary schools would be better
prepared to perform, handle the basic mathematical and scientific
concepts needed in daily life, and join a modernizing and expanding
labor market. Additionally there would be an increase in the use of
the private sector for provision of educational services and the
maintenance of its facilities. This would in turn result in
increased efficiency in the management of schools and would encourage
efficiency in the use of government resources.
Risks. There are two main risks. First, the capacity deficiencies
of the implementing institutions could hamper the progress of the
project. This risk is being addressed through (a) a technical
assistance component carefully designed to strengthen management
capacity, and (b) through the proposed annual and mid-term reviews of
project performance. The second risk is that unanticipated changes
in Governmental policies or the political scene might affect the pace
and direction of the reform and revitalization of the sector. To
mitigate this risk, extensive efforts were made during preparation of
the project to build a broad consensus among Tanzanians involved in
education on the issues, priorities, and appropriate next steps.
Seminars and meetings were held at which leading authorities within
and outside Government presented their views and reached shared
understandings of what needs to be done. Finally, the annual- and
mid-term reviews of the project would provide the forum and
mechanisms for ensuring that (i) the project can be adjusted to
slight changes in the economic and policy environment.



iv
Sumary of Project Cost Estimates a/
X Total
Project Component                     (US$ million equiv)           base
Foreign  Local  Total  2FE   Costs
Strengthening of Sector Planning and Management
Strengthening of Education Management   1.2    1.3    2.5    47         5
Development of MOE Information Base       0.5    0.3    0.8    63       2
Educational Research and Studies          0.6    0.8    1.4    42       3
Improvement of Education Quality
Strengthening of ICD                      1.5    0.8    2.3    66       5
Improvement of Science Teaching           3.4    1.0    4.4    76       9
Strengthening of BH4                      0.3    0.0    0.3    92       1
Provision of Primary Textbooks            9.5    2.2   11.7    81    24
Provision of Secondary Textbooks          1.5    0.6    2.1    70       4
Upgrading of School Libraries             2.6    0.4    3.0    86       6
Mobilization of Community Resources
Rehab/Haintenance of Primary Schools    6.3    9.3   15.6    41    32
NETF Support for Secondary Schools        2.2    1.8    4.0    55       8
Total Base Cost                  29.6   18.5   48.1    61   100
Physical Contingencies                    2.7    1.8    4.5    61       9
Price Contingencies                       4.8   10.1   14.9    32    31
Total Project Cost                37.1   30.4   67.5    55
Financing Plan a/
Foreign       Local        Taxes        Total
TANZANIA
Government          0.4         1.6          3.9          5.9
Communities         0.0         6.4          0.0          6.4
IDA                     22.5         15.8         0.0         38.3
NORAD                    2.9          2.0          0.0         4.9
SIDA                    11.3          0.7         0.0         12.0
TOTAL              37.1        26.5          3.9         67.5
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year   1991      1992      1993     1994      1996     1996
Annual                 1.5       5.7      8.2       7.9      7.2       7.8
Cumulative             1.5       7.2     15.4     23.3      30.5      38.3
a/ Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$3.9 million equivalent.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The proposed project would assist the Government in initiating the
rehabilitation, reform and revitalization of the education sector.
Activities supported by the project would help the Government to launch the
initial steps of a long-term restructuring process, the objectives of which
would be to: improve quality and efficiency in education; improve access
and equity; resolve financing, expenditure and cost issues in accordance
with the fiscal realities that the country faces; upgrade the capabilities
of the -4ucation system to solve problems and cope with change (by
strengtnening management, planning, institutional development, and research
and evaluation); and contribute more effectively to building Tanzania's
human resource capacity generally.
1.02     The strategy, objectives and content of the project have been
developed through extensive consultations and analysis within Government
and in discussions with IDA, and have taken into account the following:
(a) Considering the economic situation and prospects, the economic and
other policies that the Government is pursuing (including the
ongoirg adjustment program) and the overall country circumstances,
an appropriate environment now exists for new initiatives.
(Section A of Chapter I)
(b) Considering the Government's education objectives and policies,
its recognition of what needs to be done, and its commitment to
taking the necessary steps, financially and otherwise, to secure
substantial and sustainable progress, conditions are favorable for
proceeding to a major investment witiout delay. (Section B of
Chapter I)
(c) The problems and needs in the sector are severe, broad ranging,
and urgent. The extent and quality of education have deteriorated
significantly in the 1980s, seriously undermining the impressive
accomplishments of earlier years. Rectifying the deficiencies of
the sector will be a massive undertaking, requiring more than a
decade to complete and entailing comprehensive and fundamental
reform and rehabilitation. (Sections A and B of Chapter II)
(d) To succeed in this extensive reform and rehabilitation process,
the Government will need to proceed in incremental steps rather
than attempt to remedy everything at once. A step by step
approach is necessary due to several critical constraints and
circumstances of the current situation, namely: (i) the very
limited capacities of the key institutions involved, both in
implementation and in planning; (ii) the limited pace at which
resource constraints can be eased and financing reforms can be
introduced, both in the education sector and more generally in the
country; and (iii) the time required to develop, and build support



-2-
for, more detailed action plans for the various subsectors of
education. The proposed project would support the initial steps
in this incremental improvement process and help prepare the way
for subsequent launching of further steps. (Section C of Chapter
II)
(e) Within the context of this larger, long term restructuring
process, the main aims of the proposed project would be to: (i)
strengthen the education system's capacity to plan and implement
policies and programs, so as to improve management of the sector
generally and facilitate the next steps in the reform effort; and
(ii) address the most crucial priorities in the sector that need
to be dealt with at an early stage of the reform process. The
latter would involve selective new measures in two primary areas,
chosen after reviewing a wide range of possibilities.  These two
areas would be improvement of educational quality and
strengthening of mechanisms to mobilize more community resources
and support for education.  In all its objectives, the project
would focus exclusively on the issues where there is a critical
need for accelerated progress, and where the nature of what needs
to be done is already abundantly clear. (Chapters III, IV and V)
(f) The benefits of the project would be considerable. The risks,
although not insignificant, would be minimized by provisions
included in the design of the project. (Chapter VI)
(g) The agreements reached between Government and IDA are consistent
with the dual needs of facilitating the progress of the
Government's longer term effort and assuring effective utilization
of the IDA credit and successful completion of the project.
(Chapter VII)
1.03     The rest of this Introduction presents further background on: (a)
the economic and policy environment; and (b) the Government objectives in
the education sector, setting the stage for the discussions of sectoral and
project-related issues in subsequent chapters.
A. THE ECONOMIC AND POLICY ENVIRONMENT
1.04     The economy, after experiencing extreme difficulties in the period
leading up to the adoption in 1986 of the Government's new Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), has begun to show encouraging evidence of
improvement. In 1986, for the first time since 1980, the GNP growth rate
of 3.4 percent was higher than the population growth rate. Also major
changes have been occurring in the economic dynamics of the country
resulting in a dramatic increase in the availability of basic consumer
goods, growth of private sector activities, growth in manufactured and
other non-traditional exports, and major reductions in price distortions.
Both in 1987 and in 1988, growth rates continued to be positive, although
slightly lower than in 1986 mainly because of declining world prices of
coffee, tea and tobacco. The emerging positive trends in the economy,
coming after an earlier period of rapid decline and widespread



deterioration, offer a dramatically improved context for undertaking major
new initiatives in education.
1.05     The ERP and the Government commitment to the economic reform
process have been important factors in these developments, and the
achievements of the first three years of the reforms provide prom'sing
signs that a conducive climate for education efforts will continue in the
years ahead. The main goals of the ERP are to restore positive growth in
per capita income, reduce inflation and establish sustainable balance of
payments. The ERP seeks to reduce distortions and encourage more efficient
resource allocation through: la) significant exchange rate adjustments; (b)
adjustments in interest rates; (c) increases in producer prices of export
crops; and (1) reductions in price controlled items. These policy changes
are being accompanied by limits in overall credit growth, complementary
measures in agricultural policies and measures to rehabilitate the
transportation infrastructure.
1.06     The economic policies under the ERP have been actively supported
by a broad coalition of donors and International agencies, including the
IMF and the Bank. The Bank Group lending commitments to Tanzania during
the entire period, 1961-87, amounted to nearly US$1.5 billion including
four policy based operations, as well as sector-specific investment
projects. Planned future operations include more of both, with a series of
policy based credits addressing: (a) agricultural policy; (b) financial
sector reform; (c) public and parastatal sector management; and (d) trade
reform and industrial restructuring programs. The Bank Group strategy
recognizes that the Government will for many years need to continue to make
macro and sectoral adjustments, and that these reforms will need to be
backed by external financial support. The next phase of the ERP is now
under preparation by the Government.
1.07     The country still has a long way to go to overcome the setbacks
from the period leading up to 1986, and even further to achieve its longer
term development objectives. Standards of living remain very low in many
areas, compared to other African countries. Yet, the Government appears to
be heading in the right direction, with good prospects for the future.
B. GOVERNMENT OBJECTIVES FOR THE EDUCATION SECTOR
1.08     Education has long been a high priority in Tanzanian policies and
development strategy. After independence in 1961, strengthening education
quickly became a preeminent national goal. In 1967, two major policy
addresses by the President, "The Arusha Declaration" and 'Education for
Self-Reliance', underscored the crucial role of education and outlined an
action program. The concepts presented in these speeches set the course of
Tanzanian development in general, and education in particular, over the
next '5 years. The themes of ujamaa (African socialism) and equity laid
down by President Nyerere were reinforced in 1974, with the announcement of
the policy of Universal Primary Education (UPE). As a result of this
policy, Tanzania attained one of the highest primary enrollment rates (96
percent of 7-13 age group) in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) during the 1970s, as
well as high literacy rates among the adult population. However, UPE also



- 4 -
spawned undesirable effects: the quality of primary education eroded due to
the rapid expansion of primary schools; only 3 percent of the 14-17 age
group obtained access to secondary education because of the deliberate
policy restricting expansion of secondary schools; and the competence and
number of candidates for post-secondary education declined significantly.
1.09     In 1980, the Government undertook a wide-ranging review of the
sector through the work of a specially created Presidential Commission, the
final report of which, "Educational System in Tanzania Towards the Year
2000," was published in 1984. The report touches on many diverse issues.
A primary concern of the Commission members, emphasized in the Report, was
unsatisfactory educational quality, at all levels but especially in primary
schools, and a key recommendation of the Report is "the consolidation of
primary education." Particular attention was given to the problem that
'students at various levels of education do not have adequate ability to
communicate effectively in English and Kiswahili." The shortage of
educational materials, absence of libraries, and inadequate training of
teachers were singled out as particular problems that needed to be
addressed. Curricular areas identified as needing to be improved included
the teaching of mathematics and science subjects. Another major
recommendation touched on the need to expand secondary education, which
until then had "not been able to satisfy the national requirement for
skilled manpower." The important future role of private secondary schools
was also acknowledged in the report.
1.10     In 1988, the Government carried the discussions of educational
issues and priorities one step further. In conjunction with the Bank and
UNESCO, a study was carried out on the financing of education, particularly
to try to prioritize the actions needed to rehabilitate the education
sector. Background studies were commissioned on various topics, and the
reports were discussed in a review meeting. In the first half of 1989, the
Government moved to renew and strengthen its efforts to address the needs
of the social sectors, including educaticn explicitly, within the framework
of the next ERP three-year program. A document outlining a 'Priority
Social Action Program" (PSAP) was prepared, and options for reversing the
erosion in recent years of the level of public spending on social services
were examined in the context of preparing the Government budget. The
intent was to maintain the direction and momentum of the ERP while adding
to it a heightened emphasis on safeguarding and improving the situation of
poor and vulnerable groups and promoting human resource development.
Specifically, the PSAP was designed to mobilize resources to prevent any
further deterioration of the social services, to restore their performance
as quickly as possible, and to move towards more sustainable delivery
systems in .he medium term.
1.11     With the recent reemphasis on social issues, the Government
commitment to education remains strong as it plans for the 1990s. Its
objectives for the sector continue to reflect many themes prominent in the
past -- primary education, equity, and self-reliance by communities and by
the nation. In addition, other themes, focussing on tha need for
rehabilitation, reform, revitalization, quality improvement, management
strengthening and progress on financing issues, have become more prominent
in recent years, as the deficiencies of the existing education system have



been more clearly recognized. In sum, the approach now being adopted by
the Government comprises three broad elements:
(a) strengthening the strategy and action plans that are needed to
guide the sector through the 1990s and beyond;
(b) building up greater capacity to develop and implement strategies
and plans, and manage the sector effectively and efficiently; and
(c) acting immediately to improve selected aspects of the sector where
it is clear what needs to be done and urgent to avoid delay.
1.12     In general terms, the Report of the Presidential Commission and
the PSAP are very consistent with the Bank Group analysis of the state of
Tanzanian education and of the priority needs to be addressed in the
sector. They are also consistent with the findings of a public expenditure
review (PER) which was jointly carried out by the Government and the Bank.
Much too is in line with the themes in the Bank policy study: Education in
Sub-Saharan Africa, Policies for Adjustment, Revitalization, and Expansion
(World Bank 1988).



- 6 -
TI. TEE EDUCATION SECTOR: PRINCIPAL ISSUES, LESSONS
FRON EXPERIENCE AND PRIORITIES FOR NEXT STEPS
2.01     This chapter covers:
(a) the main issues and basic characteristics of the sector; the
severity and urgency of some of these issues, and how they have
led to the deterioration of educational quality and
infrastructure, eroding the impressive achievements of earlier
years (Section A);
(b) the lessons from past efforts, especially efforts supported by (i)
the donor community generally and (ii) the Bank in particular
(Section B); and
(c) the priorities for next steps; and how this proposed project would
help prepare the way for subsequent stages of the Government
reform of the sector (Section C).
A. PRINCIPAL ISSUES
2.02     Virtually every aspect of the education system has its share of
difficult issues with critical implications for quality, internal and
external efficiency, access, equity, financing, expenditures and costs. To
identify the most important of these issues, the joint (Government and IDA
staff) project preparation team considered a long list of potential issues
(Annex 1), drawn up from a review and analysis of information from (a)
available documents and literature, including project and sector reports
from Government, the Bank, the Swedish International Development Authority
(SIDA), and others, (b) data and observations obtained during field trips,
and (c) consultations with key officials. The list of related documents in
the project file is in Annex 2. From this long list, a shortlist was
prepared of the most urgent problems that had to be addressed in the years
ahead. These are elaborated below, under headings on primary and secondary
education, the financing of the education system, unit costs, the
management of the system, and miscellaneous other issues.
Basic Characteristics of the Education System
2.03     The structure of the system (Annex 3) is broadly similar to that
of many other African countries, and the most recent education statistics
are given in Annex 4. The key points are the following.
2.04     During the 19709, Tanzania had one of the highest primary
enrollment rates in SSA, in addition to achieving high literacy rates among
the adult population. About 70 percent of Tanzanians in the labor force
today can communicate orally and read basic materials in the national
language, Kiswahili. In the 1980s, however, these achievements were eroded
by extensive deterioration that will have ramifications throughout the
1990s and beyond. Primary enrollments have been on the decline, with 3.2



million students in 1988. down from 3.5 million in 1979. With population
growing at 3.4 percent annually, this has meant that the percentage of the
7 to 13 age group that is in school has dropped from 96 percent to 78
percent. The quality of primary education has declined as well. On the
average, children who graduate from the seven-year primary education system
have laarned little by comparison with achievement levels elsewhere and
historically in Tanzania itself. The average graduate is performing at the
level of Standard IV (Grade 4) students in neighboring countries, and many
remain illiterate when they leave school.
2.05     Secondary education, after decades of a deliberate policy
restricting expansion, accommodates only 3 percent of the 14 to 17 age
group. This is among the smallest percentage enrollments in the world,
second only to Rwanda. Only about 5 percent of primary school graduates go
on to secondary. Quality at secondary schools is low, with much
instruction time being devoted to making up for deficiencies in the primary
school curriculum --catching up on English, the language of instruction at
this level, and on other basic cognitive skills required for efficient
learning in the sciences and social studies. In the last years of
secondary school, about 30 percent of class time is devoted to the study of
specific skills (agriculture, home economics, commerce, and industry)
regarded by employers as only marginally relevant, and rarely leading
directly to self-employment.
2.06     At the university level, the numbers of qualified entrants are
inadequate because of the problems at the secondary level, and this
precludes expansion and upgrading of university education. Too few
graduates are being produced for the country's manpower needs. Unit costs
at the university -- and the secondary level as well -- are four to five
times higher than in other parts of Africa.
2.07     Educational support services are weak, with deficiencies at the
central level mirrored in the regional and district levels. Problems in
the textbook subsector have led to scarcity of appropriate textbooks in -he
schools. These problems range from the inadequate institutional capacity
of the Institute of Curriculum Development (ICD) in the areas of textbook
development and authorship, to inefficiencies and bottlenecks in the
textbook production trades and distribution system. 1/ The school
infrastructure is generally badly dilapidated and does not provide an
environment conducive to learning. Maintenance of primary schools is at
best sporadic and marginal resulting in rapid deterioration and further
reduced student access. The planning process and data management in the
Ministry of Education (MOE) are inadequate in the areas of collection and
use of information about educational performance, costs, finances, and
results of the national examinations. Weaknesses in the management of
personnel and resources are evident throughout the system. At present
there are no systematic staff development programs, and the few existing
management training courses have little to do with the real problems that
staff confront on the job.
1/   The problems of the textbook sector are described in detail in the
Tanzania Book Subsector Study undertaken by the Bank in 1988.



-8-
2.08     School Libraries.  A clear idea needs to be promoted of the school
library as integral to the educational program and of the opportunities
which school library resources can offer to both teachers and students in
developing lifelong learning skills. The 1975 Tanzania Library Services
Board Act expresses Government's recognition of the vital role which
libraries, access to reading materials and information play in the
educational and social development. During the 1960s and 1970s, the
infrastructure for public and higher education libraries were established
with considerable inputs from foreign donor organizations, and the results
of these relatively affluent decades are still dominant today. The same
pace of development could not be maintained during the leaner 1980s and
efforts to expand access to materials through library development are
hampered by three fundamental issues: (a) chronic shortage of both capital
and recurrent funds; (b) the role and status of libraries and information
provision within the society, information is power but libraries and
disseminators of information are rarely powerful organizations; and (c) the
inheritance of costly and often inappropriate models of library and
information provision -- there is a need in Tanzania to re-evaluate the
western models and in some areas, seek alternatives so that existing
resources can be redeployed in more appropriate and productive directions.
2.09     There are virtually no libraries in any of the 10,400 primary
schools. The problems of trained teachers, textbooks and classrooms are
still priorities, nonetheless, access to wider reading materials is
essential if primary education is to progress beyond the sterile
acquisition of functional skills. Where libraries exist in secondary
schools, their role is generally a passive one, a place for students to
study and read independent of the school program and the teaching process
within classrooms, partly due to the unattractive stock and lack of trained
staff. The 40 Teacher Training Colleges (TTC) have designated library
premises, but the book stock reflects a similar situation to all other
libraries in Tanzania. Most teachers in Tanzania will not have had access
to effective libraries and will have low expectations of school library
potential. At the University of Dar es Salaam, the undergraduate library
collections are overloaded with outdated and inappropriate stock, few of
the periodicals are current or complete runs, and published material for
university and research levels are meager.
Primary Education
2.10     The most serious and fundamental issue in primary education is its
low quality. Recent evidence abounds that too many graduates from primary
school are, in fact, illiterate. About 35 percent of Standard IV pupils
examined in 1986 failed the basic language and arithmetic examinations. In
spite of the fact that pupils take six weekly periods of English in
Standards III through VII, two-thirds of primary school leavers cannot read
or understand a simple text (Criper and Dodd, 1985). Seventy-five percent
of the pupils attain less than 30 percent on basic questions in Standard
VII exams (Omari and Mosha, 1987).
2.11     In Tanzania, as in other countries, low achievement levels stem in
large part from an unsuitable curriculum and the lack of adequate inputs --
textbooks, trained teachers, and satisfactory buildings.



2.12     The curriculum is overcrowded in two respects.  First, the
timetable is overloaded, with up to 40 periods per week and 12 subjects per
grade. Second, the amount of learning expected in each subject area is
unusually high. About 10 periods (25 percent of the time) is spent
learning Xiswahili, which is probably necessary, given that it is a second
language for most children.  About eight periods are devoted to
mathematics.  In addition to these two basic courses, children study ten
other subjects, disconnected from one another. The result for the pupil is
a barrage of many small bits of information, with no attempt being made to
integrate subjects which, by their very nature, are related to one another
-- e.g., civics, geography, and history. The amount of material included
in each subject is also excessive, condemning both teachers and pupils to
failure in their attempts to cover the full curriculum in some depth. This
situation encourages inefficient teaching practices and discourages serious
analysis and deep understanding of any topic. In addition, the overcrowded
curriculum demands a large number of textbooks and booklets, beyond the
capacity of even the brightest student to assimilate -- even if they were
all made available. The primary school timetable is shown in Annex 5.
2.13     In spite of the great efforts placed on producing textbooks for
this level, with substantial contributions from SIDA, textbooks are rarely
available in classrooms. It is estimated that there is one textbook per
subject on the average for every 10-12 children, while the remaining books
are either warehoused or sit unsold in bookstores. Annex 6 describes the
textbook production problems in detail.
2.14     Teacher training takes place in 40 TTCs which, owing to the
scarcity of secondary and university graduates in the country, are for the
most part poorly staffed. They are also under-financed and poorly
equipped, and lack staff development opportunities. They have virtually no
access to recent educational thinking, through journals or other reference
materials, and in most cases make use of outmoded teaching programs,
obsolete books and very poor teaching methodologies. Classroom groups are
heterogeneous with the ages in Standard I ranging from 7 to 18 years, with
a mean of 11 years, and this poses a special challenge to inadequately
trained teachers. Although overall teacher-pupil ratios are low, the
distribution of teachers is uneven. It is nnt uncommon to find groups of
80 children with only one teacher.
2.15     A further problem holding back qualitative improvement is the poor
learning environment. A limited survey (in six districts - three regions)
demonstrates that many primary school buildings are in an appalling state
of disrepair. It is estimated that about 70 percent of the 10,400 primary
schools existing nationwide need either substantial repair or outright
replacement. Almost all need some provision or improvement of water and
toilet facilities. Many primary schools were built in response to
enrollment pressures generated by the Government policy of UPE. Deficient
building standards, poor construction and lack of maintenance, compounded
by insufficient resources, have led to the rapid deterioration of schools,
slow replacement and reduced access. On the average, 45 percent of primary
schools have insufficient school furniture (children squat on the floor
with notepads on their laps during classes). The availability and quality
of teacher housing are in an equally dismal state even in the less
disadvantaged districts. Responsibility for primary school construction



- 10 -
and operation now rests in the Ministry of Local Government, Community
Development, Cooperatives and Marketing (MLG), rather than in the Prime
Minister's Office (PMO) as in the recent past. School design standards
are, however, prescribed by the MOE. Poor coordination between the two
institutions gives little opportunity to discuss and formulate a viable
primary school infrastructure development program. More and more,
districts and communities are shouldering the responsibility for school
maintenance, but here too, the lack of a maintenance policy and skills
militates against the preservation of an appropriate physical environment
for learning.
Secondary Education
2.16     As previously noted, the secondary education system is among the
smalleqt in the world in terms of the percentage of the age group enrolled.
The gross secondary enrollment ratio, at only three percent, is far below
the SSA average of 20 percent. As a result, there is a serious scarcity of
qualified middle-level manpower. Only four percent of the labor force has
had secondary schooling, and among occupational categories (such as machine
operators and clerical workers) normally filled with secondary school
graduates, the proportion of Tanzanians who have had some secondary
education is only 32 percent. This exceedingly low educational attainment
depresses the productivity of the labor force.
2.17     The causes of the slow development of secondary education in the
past were varied. To begin with, as part of the Government concern for
equity, top priority was given to the provision of UPE. Secondly, and also
for egalitarian reasons, the Government decided to nationalize most
schools, thereby making it difficult even for children of the elite to gain
access to exclusive private schools (although a small number of elitist
schools did manage to survive, especially in urban areas). Government also
under-estimated the requirements of the economy for trained middle-level
technicians and for secondary graduates needed to fill places in tertiary
institutions. A policy of non-expansion for secondary education, perhaps
defensible in the 1960s and early 1970s when the formal employment sector
was small, was carried unchallenged into the 1980s, with too little forward
analysis and minimal effort to interpret feedback from the growing economy.
2.18     Popular interest in expansion of secondary education is very
strong, and families and district associations have shown themselves ready
to invest in this area. During the last five years, more than 50 new
secondary schools have been established independently of the central
government secondary system. Indeed, 200 of the total number of 334
secondary schools are now run by local communities. District associations,
parents, private sources and local non-governmental organizations (NGO)
have contributed to the costs of establishing new schools, including the
recurrent expenditures, often utilizing district-level trust schemes, such
as District Education Trust Funds (DETF), specially created for supporting
secondary education.
2.19     There is also a need to develop a secondary school science
curriculum more in tune with industry and technology as encountered in
Tanzania while, at the same time, retaining a sufficiently academic base so
as to prepare for the next generation of teachers, scientists and



- 11 -
technologists. This need is articulated in the "Policy on Science and
Technology," published in 1984 as part of the Report of the Presidential
Commission on Education and approved by the Party and Government. The
acute shortage of middle-level manpower, already mentioned, and the large
number of unserviceable machines seen throughout the country both suggest
that the current science curricula and teaching methods are not meeting
national requirements.
2.20     Paradoxically, another major problem faced by the secondary
schools is the emphasis on the teaching of practical skills in agriculture.
commerce, home economics and industry, to the detriment of more generic
skills. It could be argued that the inclusion of such 'practical" subjects
would improve the curriculum, but recent World Bank/UNESCO research
concludes that less specialized curricula concentrating on generic skills
and requiring less costly equipment result in students better prepared for
adult life. Such students are more likely to find jobs and, because of
their broader training, more able to change jobs successfully and to learn
the new skills required for new tasks that they may be asked to perform.
[1;Or94'Moneuiexts with less specialized backgrounds are better prepared to
meet the requirements of higher education courses. The secondary school
timetable is shown in Annex 7.
2.21     Of no less importance than the limited size of the secondary
network is the low quality and relatively high cost of instruction. A 1981
study by the World Bank and UNESCO of a sample of secondary schools (eight
Government and four private) demonstrated that Form I (Grade 8) 15 year
olds had lower average mathematics and reading scores than did 10 year olds
from ten developed and one (South Asia) developing countries. Form III
scores were only marginally better than Form I scores on the same tests.
Thus, the "cognitive yield" of two years of secondary schooling was very
meager according to this study. Most secondary students attend boarding
schools, which are twice as expensive to operate as day schools and
boarding costs account for a major part of expenditure on secondary
education. The study showed that this expensive aspect of the secondary
system did not confer any significant educational advantage on its
recipients.
2.22     More recent research (Criper and Dodd, 1985) into the teaching and
learning of English (the official instruction medium at the secondary
level) demonstrated that: (a) by the second term of Form I, 60 percent of
the students were still at the level where they could only read 500-word
picture books; (b) halfway through Form IV, the number of students capable
of reading easy but unsimplified texts was less than 10 percent; and (c)
nearly one-third of all students were still at the picture-book level after
four years of official English-medium education. Only about 10 percent of
Form IV students were at a level comparable to that expected of students
receiving their education in the English medium. These results suggest
that little or no subject information was being imparted to the majority of
students in the sample or, alternatively, that the English medium was not
being strictly applied.
2.23     Achievements in the "A' level (Grade 13) science examinations
indicate clearly a declining quality at this level too. The average
success rate in mathematics, chemistry and biology was 26.5 percent in 1986



- 12 -
as compared with 53.6 percent in 1982. Only a very small part of this
decline should be attributed to a reduction in the quality of student
intake associated with any expansion of the 'Al level system.
2.24     As in the case of the primary schools, low quality results from an
overcrowded curriculum and a lack of textbooks, other essential materials
and traiiied teachers. Tanzania has had no organized development of
nationally produced secondary school textbooks and only sporadic imports of
books produced elsewhere. There has been no systematic policy of provision
to schools, and no tradition of using the textbook as a major teaching aid.
Students copy from the blackboard notes that their teachers themselves took
when they were in school.
2.25     Only about 25 percent of secondary school teachers hold degrees,
and preparation of new teachers in existing colleges is inadequate due to a
lack of instructors, outdated curricula, and poor physical facilities.
Special constraints are found in the training of science teachers who, for
the most part, receive no exposure to the practicalities of science and
technology but, instead, are trained in outdated, rote-learning methods
with little emphasis on problem solving skills and on the Lelation of
knowledge to the real world.
2.26     Public secondary school facilities are generally built better than
primary schools, having benefitted from five of the seven previous IDA-
financed education projects, and from a school maintenance project, started
in 1981 and financed by the Danish International Development Agency
(DANIDA), which will complete major rehabilitation of 130 public secondary
schools and colleges by 1991. The program is imparting a practical
knowledge of preventive maintenance techniques to the management of public
secondary schools nationwide, auid to the MOE School Maintenance Unit which
is the implementing body for the program. On the other hand, the majority
of the 200 non-government secondary schools, built with private resources
such as from DETFs, have incomplete facilities because of insufficient
funding. The deficiencies include lack of roofing materials, hardware,
school equipment and furniture, among others. As is the case with primary
schools, the existing MOE building standards prescribed for all secondary
schools are uneconomical and need to be redesigned for greater flexibility
and better use of materials and space.
Financing of the System
2.27     While the needs of the education sector are great, the resources
available to satisfy these needs are, unfortunately, extremely limited.
Public expenditure on education in 1986, the year that the ERP was
launched, was only about two-thirds of what it had been in 1982 in real
terms. Annex 8 provides details on public expenditures in education.
2.28     Figures reported in the Government's Annual Economic Survey
suggest an even more dramatic drop-off for education, with Central
Government spending on education in 1986 being only about 45 percent of its
level four years earlier. This statistic fails, however, to take into
account the allocations of local government councils, established in 1984
and given major responsibility for paying primary teacher salaries and
certain other recurrent costs at this level of education, to be financed



- 13 -
out of transfers received from the MLG. Annex 9 - page 1 shows reported
MOE expenditure between 1976 and 1987 and the Bank's estimates of total
expenditure on education since 1985, the year that government
decentralization took effect.
2.29     Since the beginning of the ERP. government spending on education
has picked up somewhat. It is estimated that, in 1989, spending will just
barely surpass in real terms the level of 1982. Of course, with annual
population increases, in per capita terms, estimated expenditure on
education will be only 69 percent in 1989 of what it was in 1977 and 63
percent of what it was in 1982 (Annex 9 - page 2).
2.30     In relation to the total government budget, spending on education
was 14 percent in 1968, IZ percent in 1984, and 10 percent (estimated) in
1989. The Education share of the budget for other SSA countries averages
around 15 percent (median value in 1983). Much of this decline in the
education share of the Tanzanian budget has resulted from the heavy and
increasing demand on the Reserve Fund to service the country's rising
external debt. Education has also lost some ground relative to the other
economic sectors. In 1983, the education share of the budget net of debt
servicing was 17 percent, about the same as it had been in 1968, 15 years
earlier. In 1984 and in all years since then, it has been in the range of
14 percent. Details are provided in Annex 9 - page 3.
2.31     Increasingly, schools are being asked to operate with very minimal
Central Government budgetary allocations, with the expectation that if
Government contributes a smaller amount, communities and parents would
increase their own contributions. This expectation has been largely
fulfilled -- the private response has been substantial. But many parents,
with limited access to cash and perhaps responding to the fall in
educational quality, have preferred to keep their children at home.
2.32     Education is heavily subsidized especially at the university
level, and to a lesser extent, the secondary level. It is estimated that
parents pay about 10 percent of the full costs of public education at the
tertiary level, 30 percent at the secondary, and 50 percent at the primary.
This system appears quite inequitable, especially in light of Tanzania's
very broad-based education pyramid (few students at the top, and these do
not, on the average, represent the poorest strata of Tanzanian society).
2.33     Fees in boarding secondary schools are now 4,000 Tanzanian
Shillings (TSh) (about US$27) per year, and in day secondary schools,
TSh700. In addition, parents need to buy uniforms at about TSh3,000 per
child per year and stationery and books at about TShlO,O0O. In prixviry
schools, parents pay TSh2,000 for uniforms and TShl,500 for books and
stationery, in addition to making special contributions for, inter alia,
furniture and school supplies. Efforts to increase income generatin3
activities in schools have contributed little to the recovery of costs,
with income estimated to be no more than four percent of costs even in
schools where such programs are considered successful.
2.34     In recent years, as has been noted earlier, Government has
tolerated the establishment of private, community-based schools at the
secondary level, and a number of districts have organized DETFs for



- 14 -
financing the establishment of such schools. The communities pay the full
costs of education in the DETF schools (TShlO,000-15,QOO per student
annually on the average). Funds are obtained from student fees and taxes
on agricultural crops. There are now at least 12 of these DETFs,
supporting about 50 secondary schools, and the potential for increasing the
number of funds seems large. Although more information is needed on the
willingness and capacity of the poorest districts to finance schools via
DETFs, the more advanced areas of the country have proven themselves eager
and quite capable of increasing the number of secondary school places
through community efforts of this sort. The experience of Arusha, Moshi,
Mufindi, and Mbeya indicates that community schools can provide teaching
which is comparable to that which is provided in the public schools and
that such schools can be frequently well built, well staffed, and capable
of responding in interesting ways to locally perceived manpower needs.
2.35     The development and implementation of a coherent financial policy
for the education system have not yet emerged in full, for several reasons.
(a) Government efforts thus far have focussed on major macro-economic
adjustment measures and on policies for financing developments in
the agriculture and transportation sectors. To date there has not
been much attention given to reviewing other sectoral policies,
nor to the collection of data required for formulating such
policies.
(b) All decisions on national education policy are taken by the
Central Committee of the Party, which is a political organ that
responds not only to MOE suggestions, but also to recommendations
of regional Party officers and Party conferences. There is no
machinery currently in place to channel all of these
recommendations in a way that would allow for the development of
national policies.
(c) At the primary education level, the Government policy has been to
decentralize decision-making to the districts in order to allow
for more direct community involvement in the monitoring of school
activities. This is a recent policy that still requires
substantial amounts of training and modification based on the
lessons of experience. The District Education Officer (DEO) is
still a new position, and time is needed before the incumbents can
recommend and implement systematic and coherent policies for the
financing of primary school activities.
(d) The Government is aware of the possible negative impact of
adjustment measures on the poor and is unwilling at this time to
modify substantially the subsidies provided to all children who
now manage to enter secondary and higher levels of education, nor
does it have the data and structure needed to charge differential
fees according to family income. The official position is that
economic recovery should be further advanced before additional
fees are imposed on the social sectors.



- 15 -
Unit Costs
2.36     Per pupil expenditure in primary education is extremely low by
international standards. Compared to an average of about US$55 in SSA,
expenditure in Tanzania is less than US$30. Teacher salaries are low, as
are salaries of civil servants in general, and Government provides only a
minimum amount (aboat US$1 per student per year) for non-salary
expenditures.
2.37     While expenditure is low in primary education, secondary and
university expenditures are very high, about four to five times higher per
student than in neighboring countries. The reasons for such high unit
costs are varied:
(a) The size of the post-primary system is small, requiring high
administrative overheads. This is especially true of the
university system, which operates with a varied and diverse number
of very small programs and provides for only an average of three
students per instructor. In secondary education, the situation is
not much better, with only 13 students per teacher. Even in
primary schools, the picture could be improved: the enrollment
ratio is only 33:1, while the average in SSA is 39:1.
(b) Tanzania has a tradition of providing extensive services unrelated
to the primary function of the education system, that of teaching
students. Secondary schools spend only about half of their
resources on instruction, the other half going to boarding
facilities, meals, and transportation. The two universities
(University of Dar es Salaam (UDS) and Sokoine University of
Agriculture) provide boarding accommodation free-of-charge for all
students.
(c) Given the educational objective that all students should finish
school in possession of job-related specific skills, there are
high costs of providing workshops, specialized teachers, and
consumable materials for the vocational courses. Efficiency in
the use of resources would be greatly improved if the secondary
school curriculum were modified to include only those subjects
that can be realistically taught in Tanzanian schools.
Specialized vocational skills training, requiring high-cost and
difficult-to-use equipment, should be left to the Ministry of
Labor and Manpower Development (MLMD) and to employers.
2.38     The salaries of civil servants, and of public school teachers in
particular are low. This salary situation (a) often prompts those teachers
or education staff who do manage to obtain higher qualifications to leave
the teaching service and the sector for better remunerated positions
elsewhere, and (b) raises questions on the sustainability and viability of
investments to improve educational quality and infrastructure.



- 16 -
Management of the System
2.39     The planning process in the MOE is inadequate.  Planning consists
largely of collecting routine statistics and preparing annual budgets.
Weaknesses in data management and in the collection and use of information
about educational performance are especially severe. No data are collected
on costs and finance, and no use is made of the results of the national
examinations to modify or reorganize the curriculum and provide pedagogical
support to the teachers.
2.40     Major policy, to the extent that this is made explicit at all, is
formulated by the Party and its key organs (the Central Committee, the
National Executive Committee, and the National Party Conference). Since
Independence, all major decisions have been made at this level, and the MOE
has been seen primarily as the agency for implementing Party policies.
Decisions made directly by the Party include: (a) the abolition in 1964 of
fees in secondary schools and in institutions of higher education; (b) the
nationalization  . .11 secondary schools in 1975; and (c) the introduction
of UPE in 1974. ..., Party is also responsible for decisions on school
location and school size and, in many instances, for decisions relating to
the supervision and control of school activities.
2.41     Weaknesses in the management of personnel, resources, and
information are evident throughout the system. There have been several
reorganizations of the MOE, and responsibility for managing the primary
education budget has shifted from the MOE to the PMO and more recently to
the MLG. These changes cannot be said to have resulted in a more efficient
system. The reasons seem to lie in two basic factors. First, there are no
selection procedures for system managers, and in many cases, responsibility
is given to staff who do not have the training or the talent required to
perform managerial duties. Second, there are few incentives in the system
to reward civil servants who do manage to do a good job. Although there is
no denying that the education system requires, because of its size and
complexity, capable individuals with the ability, confidence and expertise
to handle complex administrative tasks, the MOE is not able at this time to
attract and retain top-notch manpower to its strategic positions. However,
management weaknesses are not entirely attributable to poor structure,
mandate and quality of staff. To a significant extent, management problems
are exacerbated, if not caused, by poor facilities -- buildings, equipment,
communications, transport and information resources.
2.42     Management at regional and local levels mirrors the problems found
in Central Government. There is confusion as to the responsibilities and
roles of the Regional Education Officers (REO) and the DEOs, as well as to
the mechanisms that they can employ in resolving problems. With 20 regions
and 105 districts in the country, this allocation of responsibilities and
roles is a complex issue. There are widely varying views on the specific
tasks that local staff are expected to perform, and there are conflicting
ideas about the extent to which education officers should be involved in
administering funds. Different regions and districts allow the education
officers to be involved in budgeting and planning to differing degrees, and
with differing degrees of success. At present thiere are no systematic
staff development programs for these functionaries, and the few management
training courses in existence have little to do with the real problems that



- 17 -
these staff confront on the job. Annex 10 depicts the MOE administrative
structure and management procedures.
2.43     Project management capacity in the MOE remains weak in spite of
the MOE having implemented seven Bank education projects. The existing
Project Planning Section (PPS), which has managed the most education
projects, was established in 1974. five years after credit effectiveness of
the second IDA project and six months after credit effectiveness of the
fourth project (the third project was administered by a different unit).
The PPS is responsible for the administration of projects spons ted not
only by the Bank, but also by DANIDA, SIDA, the African Development Fund
(ADF) and other donor agencies. The simultaneous implementation of these
projects, complicated by their geographical dispersion, the lack of
equipment, and the involvement of other project units has stretched the
resources of the PPS and have spotlighted its weaknesses in the areas of
programming, coordination, accounting and reporting. However, the PPS has
acquired ample expertise in procurement and the provision of architectural,
engineering and quantity surveying services.
Other Issues
2.44     The acute shortage of middle-level manpower and the large number
of unserviceable machines throughout the country (para. 2.17) are basic
issues which confront not only secondary education, but also vocational and
technical (V/T) training. These reflect, not the lack of training
facilities in the country (of which there are many 21), but (a) the little
relevance and poor quality and content of the training programs available,
(b) the shortage of good vocational training teachers with practical
experience in the workplace, and (c) lack of materials and appropriate
equipment. Most VIT graduates either do not acquire directly employable
skills from the training programs undertaken, or acquire practices that
make it difficult for them to adjust to the 'real-life' work situation.
Thus, employers find it preferable to hire untrained personnel and
themselves provide the workers with the skills training appropriate for the
job, rather than hire VIT graduates who, regardless of the certificates
they may present, tend to be less receptive in learning how to adapt to the
environment/system. The National Technical Training Advisory and
Coordinating Council is entrusted with providing advice through the MOE and
the MLMD on all aspects of technical and vocational education and training
and coordinate training programs. However, it does not have executive
powers to decide on such issues as the proliferation and duplication of
technical institutions, and effectiveness of the programs.
21   Vocational training is basically the responsibility of the Ministry
of Labor and Manpower Development. However, MOE has 313 post primary
technical centers providing vocational and crafts training (capacity
50,000, annual enrollment 4,200). In addition, public and private
organizations run vocational schools (technical secondary schools,
trade schools, Folk Development Centers, company and parastatal
schools) to suit their manpower needs and for self-employment
(capacity 15,000, annual enrollment - 6,500). Training capacity in
six vocational training centers is 2 400.



- 18 -
2.45     Student enrolment in post-secondary higher education has been on a
gradual decline since 1981. particularly in the science fields, due to the
unavailability of qualified secondary school leavers and the rising costs
of higher education. The unit recurrent expenditure per tertiary student
in Tanzania is second only to Mauritania and roughly 5.5 times that of
neighboring Kenya. The lack of qualified students is a constraint to the
MOE's efforts to expand the university intake (currently 3,500 students)
and reduce unit costs. The situation is further exacerbated by the low
student-teacher ratios resulting from the offering of too many programs.
2.46     Educatior. sector parastatals, like many parastatals in Tanzania,
are inefficient. The main reasons for inefficiencies are the limitations
encountered in selling services from one parastatal to another and the
substantially incorrect assumption that consumers will be willing and able
to pay any price for the final products of the system. An extreme case is
that of the parastatals dealing with textbook production. It has been
assumed that parents and districts would buy textbooks and stationery from
the parastatal, Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES). It has also been assumed
that money collected at the district level would be sent by TES regional
officers to central headquarters to pay for the printing, publishing, and
authorship of books. Because these assumptions have proved to be wrong,
TES and also Printpack, Tanzania Publishing House and Eastern Africa Press
have accumulated debts in the order of US$3 million. Books that have been
produced are in warehouses, not in schools. Resolution of these problems
only seems possible if all publishing, printing and distribution tasks are
deconfined. The parastatals should, therefore, be asked to compete for
contracts, thereby stimulating efficiency and high performance. This
concept is now accepted as Government policy.
B. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE
Projects Supported by the Bank
2.47     The Bank has financed seven projects in the sector, beginning in
1962. A total of US$67.1 million *.n IDA credits has been provided, with an
additional $23 million of co-financing from other donors. The seven
projects have supported a wide range of activities, including, among
others, (a) school construction at both the primary and secondary education
levels, (b) expansion of post-primary training with the goal of equipping
students with skills required in the labor market, (c) non-formal adult
education, (d) agricultural training, and (e) accountancy training.
2.48     The seven projects suffered substantial delays and other
implementation problems. In some cases delays were such that
implementation occurred after the objective to be met was no longer high on
the list of Government priorities (e.g., training of village managers when
the villagization program was being disbanded, and pre-service training of
industrial school instructors when the need was for in-service training of
staff already on the job).
2.49     About 87 percent of the IDA funds provided through these projects
were for hardware, with 64 of the 87 percent for civil works. Problems



- 19 -
within the domestic construction industry were often at the core of the
delays in implementation. Most projects were designed by expatriates
without sufficient consultation and without concern for major difficulties
encountered by Government in carrying out the proposed activities.
2.50     A recent review by the Bank (Review of Bank/Tanzania
Relationships, Sectoral Relations - Education, OED, June 1989) identified
numerous areas whlere the Bank's input could have been better designed and
more effective than it was. Among the lessons that have emerged from the
seven projects, which have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
proiect are the following:
(a) Tanzanians should participate in designing projects. In
particular, they should ensure that the policies and activities
proposed are implementable within the existing organizations, and
that the timing of activities is adequately estimated. Also, all
institutions responsible for project implementation should
participate at the design stage and be fully informed of their
responsibilities under the project.
(b) There need to be well defined implementation procedures for each
project activity. Special attention needs to be given to
designing explicit procedures for actions to be carried out at the
regional and local levels where, because of the decentralized
nature of Government, contacts and control from the center are
minimal.
(c) Expatriates coming to provide expert services should be briefed on
the total content of the project and on expected results, should
be carefully selected, and should be provided with all of the
necessary tools for their jobs. Counterparts should be available
for all expatriates and be provided with necessary equipment,
travel allowances, and incentives to do the job.
(d) Tanzanian institutions and NGOs already working in Tanzania should
be given preference for technical assistance contracts to
guarantee continuity and avoid delays in recruitment and in the
time needed to become familiar with the culture and with the
procedures required to do the job.
(e) Finally, policy dialogue needs to be a continuous process,
sustained over the years of project implementation and carried out
in a systematic way, to ensure that project goals are in line with
Government thinking and that changes in Government structure or
administrative mechanisms are taken into account by staff
implementing the project.
Projects and Activities Supported by Other Agencies
2.51     Other sources have also extended significant contributions of
various kinds. SIDA has provided assistance in the promotion of basic
education through primary and adult literacy and post-literacy programs,
and the supply of paper and production of primary textbooks. SIDA is also



- 20 -
looking into the possibility of assistance in the teaching of science in
primary education. The Overseas Development Agency (ODA) has supported a
textbook sector study in Tanzania. Several aid age.acies have participated
in the development of vocational training -- UNDP, CIDA, SIDA, DANIDA,
NORAD, the Swiss Government and the ADP. DANIDA is currently assisting the
MOE to develop a preventive maintenance program for secondary schools and
colleges with training, equipment and technical assistance support.
UNICEF's past support had been in the development of community schools. It
is now directing its attention to the increased involvement of the
education system in child survival and development. The World Health
Organization and United States Agency for International Development have
assisted in a school health education pilot project. Some NGOs are
actively involved in promoting basic education such as the Aga Khan
Foundation, the Tanzania Episcopal Conference and the Christian Council of
Tanzania. The aid agencies and NGOs are moving towards realizing a greater
degree of aid coordination in the sector.
C. PRIORITIES FOR NEXT STEPS
2.52     Given the issues, problems, constraints, concerns and
circumstances described in the preceeding sections, the Government
recognizes that it faces enormous challenges in the years ahead.
Accordingly, the MOE has reexamined its plans and priorities, and
reconsidered what can be achieved in the l990s and how far the sector can
advance by the year 2000. Heightened awareness of the choices that need to
be made, aided by the deliberati, 1s and assessments stimulated during the
preparation process for the proposed project, have helped refine
considerably the anticipated next steps. Several key themes have emerged
in this process.
(a) There needs to be more emphasis on working within an overall
strategy for the sector, rather than concentrating exclusively on
individual projects. More effort will need to be devoted to
addressing issues systemically rather than piecemeal.
(b) While the basis for the future strategy has already been
articulated in Government documents, a substantial amount of
detailed planning and decision-making still needs to be done.
Only in a few parts of the sector (including, in particular, the
parts being targeted in this project) is it yet clear exactly what
steps should be taken and when, and how they fit together.
(c) This outstanding planning work will require several years to
complete, and also considerable strengthening of the capacity for
planning and implementation within the MOE and other institutions
of the sector.
(d) The capacity strengthening will need to involve several distinct
but coordinated activities simultaneously. Capabilities in
planning, policy analysis, and evaluation must be upgraded in the
units responsible for these functions and more broadly in the
management structure of the sector -- especially at the apex of



- 21 -
the education system (the MOE and other central institutions), and
also lower down, at regional, municipal and district levels.
Capabilicies in the implementation of policies and programs must
be improved at all levels including the supporting services such
as supply networks for materials and equipment.
Ce) Serious consideration should be given to raising the level of
salaries of education staff and teachers, and to the need to
implement reforms in the salary structure as soon as possible. A
start has been made in FY90 with a 50 percent increase in
teachers' salaries, but further steps will need to be taken to
raise salaries more to rationalize the present system of
compensation and to improve the performance and productivity of
teachers.
(f) Additional funds will be needed for the education sector. These
will need to come both from Government, with a higher proportion
of the budget going to the sector, and also from other sources --
particularly communities and parents.
(g) Corresponding efforts will also be required to reduce the unit
costs of education, especially at secondary and tertiary levels.
(h) Action will now need to go forward at the same time as the
planning and strategy development. To defer any action until
fuller plans are prepared is not a viable option. A few critical
areas of the sector require immediate attention in order not to
cause unacceptable delays in progress at later stages. For
example, the textbook subsector will need to be dealt with as soon
as possible, in order not to undermine steps that will come later
to improve quality and access in primary and secondary education.
2.53     In view of all these considerations, the approach that the
Government intends to follow in its next steps in the sector, and that
underlies the currently proposed project, is to proceed simultaneously
with:
(a) strengthening the strategy and action plans that are needed to
guide the sector through the 1990s and beyond;
(b) building up greater capacity to develop and implement strategies
and plans, and manage the sector effectively and efficiently; and
(c) acting immediately to improve selected aspects of the sector where
it is clear what needs to be done and urgent to avoid delay.
2.54     In a few years time (e.g., three to five), as more progress is
achieved and when further measures can be considered, improvements will be
undertaken in a wider range of areas within the sector and on a larger
scale entailing major new initiatives. A succession of steps is likely to
be required, gradually upgrading all parts of the sector. Hence, as has
been noted earlier, a multi-stage, phased approach is envisioned.



- 22 -
2.55     Two alternatives to the above line of reasoning were considered
and rejected during the design of the proposed project. One was to
postpone launching any new IDA-supported project until all the strategy and
planning work is completed. This was clearly not a good option considering
the needs of the sector, the lengthy time until the planning would be
completed, and the requirement for capacity strengthening immediately
(without which the planning would be in difficulty). The second
alternative, at the opposite extreme, was to try to do everything at once -
- strategy development, detailed planning, and major improvement efforts in
all facets of the sector. A sector adjustment operation could have been
mounted, for example, with very broad, all encompassing goals. However,
this would have been prewature and beyond the limited capacities of the
system and responsible institutions to absorb and implement successfully.
Also, it would have failed to provide adequately for the proper sequencing
and timing of the interconnected steps required to strengthen strategy,
capacity, and key elements of the sector before proceeding to larger
investments.
2.56     Viability and Sustainability.  Even accepting the broad strategy
of a multi-stage and phased approach, there are many possible scenarios
(Annex 11) for the detailed development of the education system in Tanzania
over the next decade and beyond. Exactly how much will be achieved over
this period will depend on many factors, such as: the speed of
implementation of the ERP, and the resulting effects on both the country's
economic growth and the resources available to the Government; the rate at
which the Government is able to increase the proportion of the budget
devoted to education; the pace at which efficiency improvements are
obtained, in order to raise quality and reduce unit costs; the phasing of
increases in fees and charges for students especially at the tertiary
level; the extent to which donors continue to provide external support to
education; and the relative priority accorded to the rehabilitation and
revitalization of the various parts of the entire sector. Many of these
factors are interdependent -- for example, the degree of external support
to the sector may be expected to depend on the pace of policy reform by the
Government -- and not all are totally within the power of the Government to
control. Nevertheless, it is useful to present an indicative scenario to
illustrate the viability of the proposed strategy, to indicate the
potential achievements to be made over the medium-term, and to highlight
some of the crucial issues requiring priority attention in the next phase
of sector development.
2.57     The main investment features of the scenario are as follows:
(a) Maintenance of the current (74 percent) gross enrollment rate. In
contrast to the recent fall in the enrollment rate, the chosen
scenario aims to halt the recent decline by ensuring that 80
percent of 7 year-old children would enter primary school, and
that 70 percent of them would be retained throughout the entire
primary school cycle. A more ambitious objective would be to
increase the initial intake rate to 100 percent, but this is not
considered realistic or viable over the short to medium term
without even more drastic adjustments elsewhere in the sector.
The chosen strategy instead has the dual objective of modest
enrollment growth of 4.3 percent annually (i.e., at the rate of



- 23 -
growth of the school age population group), and also major
improvements in the quality of primary education. Even this
strategy will require strong commitment to the reform program.
(b) Substantial increase in secondary school enrollments. The chosen
strategy would increase the transition rate from primary schools
to secondary schools from 5.5 percent at present to 15 percernt by
the year 2000. There would also be an increase from 20 perceat to
27 percent in the transition rate from lower to upper secondary
schools. IThile ambitious. this objective could be achieved by the
planned substantial. increase in community schooling to complement
the Government's own efforts.
(c) Doubling of university enrollments. Although it has previously
been suggested that the Government should reconsider the plans to
expand university places and rather focus its efforts to improve
the quality and relevance of tertiary education, the doubling of
enrollments has been built into the chosen scenario. To the
extent that the expansion of the universities could be reduced,
however, additional resources could be made available for the
Government's other priorty investments in the education sector.
(d) Expansion of technical training. The chosen scenario assumes that
enrollments in the technical colleges will triple in order to
address the acute shortage of middle-level manpower in the
country.
2.58     In order for these additional expenditures to be accommodated with
the existing and projected financial constraints, however, improvements
need to be made simultaneously in the efficiency of the education system.
At the primary level the unit cost of schooling would be adjusted -- rather
a marginal increase in the student-teacher ratio from 33 to 35 would lead
to 5 percent savings which could be used to improve the quality of
education (particularly through increased purchases of reading materials
and through better inspectorate services).
2.59     The additional expenditures implied in this scenario would need to
be covered from savings in unit costs at the secondary and tertiary levels
instead. At the secondary level, the unit cost would need to be reduced
from TShl7,400 to TShl2,500 -- i.e., a drop of about 30 percent. This
could be achieved: by increasing the student-teacher ratio at secondary
schools at 25 or higher; by reducing the proportion of boarding students to
40 percent as enrollments increase; by abolishing selected non-viable
programs, such as the post-primary technical colleges and some of the
vocational programs conducted by the Folk Development Colleges; by
improving the performance of institutions responsible for textbook
development, printing and distribution services; and by improving the
efficiency of science teaching through a new, unified curriculum and
through the provision of appropriate science equipment and textbooks.
Similarly at the university level, unit costs would have to reduced to TSh
190,000 (from TSh296,000 at present) as enrollment increases to 6,900.
This could be done by ensuring that overhead costs remain constant or only
increase at a very slow rate. Coupled with this, the chosen scenario
depends on raising the level of family financial contributions by charging



- 24 -
increased tuition fees at both the tertiary and secondary levels. This
strategy is again consistent with the increased role to be given by the
Government to community secondary schools, where substantial fee levels are
already charged.
2.60     The above scenario has been discussed in detail with the
Government, and is judged to be the most appropriate strategy for the
sector. The additional expenditures could be afforded through the
offsetting unit cost reductions. while the phased expansion of enrollments
and outputs would be matched with substantial quality improvements. At the
same time, there would not be excessive pressure on the Goverrnent budget.
especially to the extent that supplementary funding for the higher levels
of the sector could be raised from increased parental contributions. While
considering this strategy, however, the implications of two other possible
scenarios were examined -- first, a more rapid expansion of enrollments
combined with a maintenance of existing unit costs, and second, a similar,
more rapid expansion of enrollments, but combined with effective
implementation of the cost reduction measures discussed above. Not
surprisingly, compared to the chosen strategy, these alternative scenarios
would have considerably greater financial demands on the Government's
constrained budget - in the former case, 28 percent more, and in the latter
case, 12 percent more. Even if the Central Government budget were to grow
at an annual rate of 4.5 percent in real terms, these other two scenarios
would imply a significant increase in the share of the budget devoted to
education.
2.61     The major additional reason underlying the choice of the modest
enrollment growth and unit cost reduction scenario as the appropriate
strategy is the urgent need for the Government to address the critical
issue of teachers' salaries. The recent 50 percent increase in salaries is
certainly a welcome move, but the absolute levels of salaries are still
very low and considerably more resources will need to be allocated to this
area of expenditure in order for teachers to be well motivated and
efficient. Although not a sufficient factor -- improvements would also be
required, for example, in the initial training of the teachers -- a further
major increase in teachers' salaries is undoubtedly a necessary part of the
strategy to improve the quality of education. Under the chosen scenario,
therefore, it is also assumed that the personal emoluments component of
educational expenditures would be increased by a factor of 3 by the year
2000. The overall impact of the proposed tripling of personal emoluments
on the budget would mean that the MOE's share of the budget would need to
double over the next ten years, going from roughly 10 percent to about 21
percent. Although the Government has agreed in principle with the broad
thrust of this aspect of the scenario (and also with the adjustments
required to make it possible), further analytical work and high-level
decision-making will be needed. In particular, it will be imperative to
ensure that the implementation of such salary increases will not be at the
expense of efforts to resolve the problems of non-salary inputs (such as
textbooks); that associated measures are also taken to strengthen
incentives for good performance by teachers; and that the Government
efforts to improve the compensation of teachers ate complemented by
additional community efforts to fund the education sector.



- 25 -
2.62     In snmmary, the Government has, therefore, identified in detail
the next steps to be taken to rehabilitate the education sector, and these
steps will be supported through the proposed project. A medium-term
strategy has also been conceptualized with the main features incorporating
elements of selective expansion, revitalization and particularly efficiency
improvements through unit cost reductions at the secondary and tertiary
levels. Some key initial decisions have already been taken bv the
Government, and others will be carried out through the course of project
execution. Some other features of the strategy, however, relate closely to
broader public sector  anagement issues and will therefore need to be
coordinated with the phased implementation of the ERP (which now
incorporates the social action program). In some cases, the precise
details of the proposed strategy are yet to be worked out, as they depend
on the prior strengthening of the institutional capacity of the MOE -- but
in all c-ses, it is acknowledged that a sustained and determined effort
will be needed for the rehabilitation of the education sector to be
successfully achieved.



- 26 -
III. THE PROJECT
3.01     The proposed proiect would assist the Government address the
issues and goals outlined in Chapters I and II, and would support the
Government aim of improving the quality of education from the bottom up.
As noted earlier, the activities supported by the project would help launch
the initial steps in rehabilitating, reforming and revitalizirig the
education sector -- a process that -ill necessarily be a long-term effort
proceeding in incremental steps, beginning with this project.  The first
steps are, therefore, to ensure that capacity is strengthened to develop
strategies and action plans, to develop institutions and skills to manage
the sector more efficiently, and also to provide support for critically
important priority investments.
A. OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.02     The objectives and content of the project have been designed in
accordance with the strategy discussed in the preceeding chapters (see
especially Section C of Chapter II). On the basis of the considerations
outlined therein, the project preparation team (Government and Bank
specialists) concluded that the project should aim to:
(a) strengthen the capacity of the education system to plan and
implement policies and programs, both to improve management,
efficiency, and effectiveness in the education system generally,
and to enable the successive steps of the reform and restructuring
process to move ahead successfully; and
(b) address the most crucial other priorities in the sector that need
to be dealt with at this stage in the overall Government effort to
improve education. This would mean supporting new initiatives
selectively and on a limited basis, since further measures would
be envisioned for subsequent stages of the reform effort, in a few
areas where (i) there is a critical need for accelerated progress
in order not to cripple or delay the overall effort, and (ii) the
nature of what needs to be done is already clear without waiting
for the conclusion of the capacity strengthening exercise.
3.03     For the priority areas for immediate action, the preparation team
winnowed down a long list of possibilities to two: (a) improvement of
educational quality, and (b) strengthening of mechanisms to mobilize more
community resources and support for education. Thus, by focussing on these
two issues, the project would assist the Government in overcoming the most
serious bottlenecks of the system. In addition, it would help the
Government to develop the data, research capacity and managerial structure
needed to adopt and implement a broader sectoral adjustment operation in
the future.



- 27 -
3.04     The objectives of the project are therefore:
(a) To strengthen the institutional capacity to plan and implement
appropriate and effective educational policies and programs by:
(i)  improving the training of education managers at central and
local offices;
(ii)  supporting improvements in the information base avai1able to
education a4tUorities, with special attentior to systematic
collection and analysis of school. performance indicators,
efficiency measures, and cost and financing data;
(iii) strengthening educational research and the use of the results
to plan sectoral improvements; and
(iv)  supporting studies necessary to assist Government efforts to
update the existing national educational strategy.
(b) To improve the quality of education at the primary and secondary
levels by:
(i) strengthening the Institute of Curriculum Development which is
the source and arbiter of all teaching materials used in
Tanzanian schools;
(ii)  improving the methodology for teaching science and mathematics
courses in secondary schools and providing the necessary
training, teaching materials and low-cost equipment;
(iii) further developing the capacity to prepare, distribute and
utilize relevant textbooks; and
(iv)  upgrading existing university, college and secondary school
libraries and initiating a pilot primary school library
extension project.
(c) To strengthen the mobilization and effective utilization of non-
government resources and support for education by:
(i) developing a comprehensive school maintenance strategy,
training district cadres in school building and maintenance,
and rehabilitating dilapidated primary schools in under-served
rural areas with assistance from communities; and
(ii)  providing incentives to increase community efforts in
financing the establishment of secondary schools, by
establishing a National Education Trust Fund (NETF) to provide
resources to match community investments in these schools.



- 28 -
B. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
OBJECTIVE A: Strengthening the Institutional Capacity to Plan and Implement
Educational Policies and Programs.
3.05     The development of lnstitutional capacity is a long-term process
in Tanzania requiring improvements in the administration of the public
sector as a whole, an imprcved macro-economic environment, and a
restrttcturirxg of Government salaries so as to restore aiecuate compensation
for sesior-level planners and managers.  The project would support measures
to prepare sectoral institutions to adapt themselves to the restructured
environment.
3.06     Specifically, the project would develop the various elements
required for adequate long-term planning and management: training.
information collection and analysis, research, and the coordination of
donor aid to the sector. These elements would be utilized by the
Government in formulating: a revised sectoral strategy, the five-year
development plans, annual investment plans, and recurrent expenditure
budgets.
Manastement Training
3.07     The project would support the training of about 10,000 primary
school headmasters, 500 school inspectors, and 300 DEOs, REOs and District
Supply and Logistics Officers. The school management training program
would be supervised by the MOE Department of Primary Education (MOE/DPE),
and provided by the Institute of Management Training for Education
Personnel (H4ANTEP), which has the facilities, expertise and capability in
this field. The project would finance (Base Cost: US$0.82 million): (a) 6
staff months of internationally recruited technical assistance for the
preparation of training plans; (b) about 100 staff months of locally
recruited management specialists for the preparation of training programs
and materials; (c) the non-salary costs for organizing the training
programs; and (d) refurbishing of MANTEP's training facilities.
3.08     Management of the Project.  The experience in the previous IDA-
financed education projects underscored the need to strengthen project
management capacity in the areas of planning, budgeting, implementation,
problem-solving, monitoring, procurement and accounting, and to clearly
delineate the responsibilities of each executing unit. To cope with the
complex management arrangements of the project, the PPS which implemented
the previous IDA-financed education projects, has been restructured into a
Project Coordinating Team (PCT) comprising staff of MOE and MLG
institutional units responsible for implementing specific project elements.
The project management arrangements are described in detail in Annex 12 and
Chapter V. The key staff of the PCT, including the Project Coordinator,
Deputy Project Coordinators (one for MOE and one for MLG), and Project
Accountant, have been appointed. The project would finance (Base Cost:
US$1.17 million): (a) the services of the full-time Project Coordinator and
Deputy Coordinators; (b) 20 staff months of short-term consultant services
in specific areas of project management (e.g. accounting, financial
reporting, monitoring and evaluation); (c) vehicles, office equipment,



- 29 -
office furniture, computer package and software; and (d) the non-salary
operating expenses for the management of the project.
Improvements in the Information Base
3.09     The MOE Department of Planning (MOE/DPL) would improve the
collection, analysis and disseminationt of information on school enrollment,
promotion rates, teachers and school managers, physical facilities and
education costs. The project would finance (Base Cost: US$0.87 million):
(a) the de.velopment of an information system in the MOV,'DPL, ir.cluding the
training of MOE/DPL staff, and provide the following inputs: (i) 24 staff
months of internationally recruited technical assistanze; (ii) 48 staff
months of locally recruited specialist services; (iii) computer package and
software, bibliographical materials, furniture and equipment for the MOE
planning offices; (iv) development and printing of data collection
instruments; (v) annual seminars with REOs and DEOs responsible for the
data collection at local levels; and (vi) inputs required for publication
of educational data; and (b) inputs required by the National Examination
Council to prepare and distribute, on an annual basis, the results of
examinations by level, district, subject and sex. These inputs include:
(i) US$50,000 for hiring subject area specialists to analyze qualitative
results; and (ii) US$10,000 annually to publish the findings.
Education Research
3.10     Building Research Capacity.  The project would develop capacity in
the MOE/DPL to plan, conduct and coordinate research programs. A research
committee would be established in the MOE, with participation of university
and Government representatives. This committee would develop a research
agenda, award research contracts on a competitive basis, supervise the
research, and coordinate the publishing of research results. In addition,
the project would strengthen the capability of the University of Dar es
Salaam Faculty of Education (UDSFE) to undertake research and supervise
other research more suited to the use of outside contractors, through the
establishment of an Educational Research Bureau associated with the UDSFE.
The MOE is finalizing detailed arrangements with the UDSFE for conducting
the research program.
3.11     Research Agenda.  Studies/research would be undertaken on the
areas described below, among others. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to submit the terms of reference of the following proposed studies
for IDA review by December 31, 1990.
(a) Evaluation of the use of textbooks in the classroom and of the use
of instructional time. In addition, educational achievements of
students in the pilot primary schools receiving library book
collections would be compared with students from primary schools
not provided with the supplementary learning materials.
(b) Methods used in teaching science and mathematics and their
relation to student achievement.
(c) Unit costs of education and the willingness and capacity of
parents and communities to share these costs.



- 30 -
(d) Alternative scenarios that would show the budgetary implications
of various policies for the financing of primary, secondary and
university education, including:
(i)   proposals for an appropriate teacher salary structure.  At
negotiations, the Government provided assurances to submit
to IDA by June 30. 1991. a proposed revision to the level
of teachers' salazies:
(ii)  measures to reduce the gap between the school fees paid by
students i. Government secondary schools and those paid by
students in community schools. This rationalization would
be effected by gradually increasing the fees paid at
Government boarding schools to a level where all boarding
costs are met by the families, and by increasing tuition
fees in all Government secondary schools to recover at
least 30 percent of the recurrent costs by 1995. At
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
beginning in fiscal year 1991, at least half cf the
increase in Government revenues resulting from these
measures would be retained by the schools themselves, to be
used for school maintenance and/or needs-based scholarships
for students; and
(iii) proposals for a gradual increase of the recurrent
allocations for school maintenance. By June 30, 1991, the
Government would prepare and discuss with IDA, a
comprehensive school maintenance strategy providing for
these increases, which would be introduced into the system
starting in 1992.
(e) Responsibilities and roles of education managers in the
decentralized system.
(f) Criteria that districts should use in locating and building new
schools, including preparation of a school map of each district
indicating proposed size and location of schools.
3.12     Management and Coordination of Donor Aid.  The education sector in
Tanzania relies heavily on donor support. To maximize the benefits of such
support in the future, the MOE needs to elaborate a viable mid-/long-term
program for implementing (and updating) the national educational
development strategy and coordinating external assistance to the sector.
The MOE would prepare pre-investment studies of the priority needs of the
education sector to be included in future projects. The draft of the
studies would be presented for TDA review by December 31, 1994. Two
seminars would be held with all donors to the sector, the first of which
would take place within one year after Credit Effectiveness and the second
not later than three years after Effectiveness. The Government would
prepare for each of these seminars an updated strategy paper incorporating
pertinent recommendations of the studies described in para. 3.11 above, and
including, inter alia, thes (i) qualitative and quantitative targets to be
achieved in primary, secondary, teacher training, and post-secondary



- 31 -
institutions; (ii) recurrent and investment costs as3ociated with these
targets; and (iii) proposed financial plans for meeting these targets
including cost recovery mechanisms and foreign assistance requirements.
3.13     The project would finance (Base Costs US$1.36 million): (a) the
costs of the studies; (b) microcomputer equipment and software, furniture,
library materials, and a vehicle for the Educational Research Bureau of
UDSFE; tc) 13 staff months of internationally recruited techiuical
assistance (of wh.ich 4 staff months for the development of a pre-investment
study); (di the non-salary expenditures for two major meetings to discuss
research results, including participation costs of internationally known
re2earchers; (e) the publication of the results of the studies: and (f) the
publication of a newsletter summarizing research findings to be distributed
to all TTCs and secondary schools.
OBJECTIVE B:   Improvement of Education Quality.
Strengthening the Institute of Curriculum Development
3.14     The ICD is the ultimate source and arbiter of all instructional
materials which have Government approval for use in Tanzanian schools, and
is also becoming the central coordinating body for the development of
curriculum materials and equipment by teachers working in the zonal Teacher
Resource Centers (TRC). To complement and parallel its role in the
textbook development process, the ICD structure would incorporate a School
Equipment Development Unit (SEDU), which will provide the professional and
technical services for equipment design and prototype production. To carry
out these important functions efficiently, the ICD requires: (a) physical
facilities appropriate for its curriculum and textbook development tasks,
and for the design and production of simple, low-cost science equipment
prototypes; (b) word processing and office printing equipment and supplies
for the writing and reproduction of textbook manuscripts and trial
materials; (c) samples of science equipment, textbooks and reference
materials from other African countries; (d) radio and communications
equipment and vehicles to link the ICD with the zonal TRCs; and (e)
specialist services, and short-term fellowships for key ICD staff in the
skill areas of curriculum design, science equipment design and production,
and publication (planning, writing, editing, graphics, production, and
management). Suitable candidates have been selected, in accordance with
the agreed job descriptions appended as Annex 13, for the posts of (a) SEDU
manager and (b) head of the science curriculum team responsible for
coordinating the curriculum work undertaken in the TRCs. The ICD
requirements are described in detail in Annex 14.
3.15     A building master plan would be prepared for constructing a
facility suitable for accommodating, in two phases, the reorganized
structure of the ICD at its full complement. However, only Phase I of the
master plan (consisting of accommodations for administrative services,
library, curriculum and textbook writing and development, SEDU workshop and
laboratory, and associated utility and maintenance facilities) would be
implemented under the project (Phase II, which would be outside of the
project, would eventually provide for teacher training and research
facilities). IDA approval of the contract for building the new ICD



- 32 -
facilities would be conditional upon (a) the award of contracts for the
printing of textbook manuscripts now under preparation at the ICD (para.
3.24), and (b) the completion of manuscripts for the new textbook series
for primary and secondary levels (paras. 3.24. 3.28 and 3.30). The
temporary office facilities of the ICD at its existing premises would be
upgraded to improve the working environment for curriculum and textbook
aevelopers while the construction of Phase I is in progress.
3116     The project would finance (Base Cost; tJS$l.48 million):
architectural/engineering services for the preparatior. of the ICD buIldirg
master plan and for construction supervision; construsction of Phase I of
the master plan; upgrading of the temporary !CD facilities; furniture,
equipment and vehicles; books, educational and reference materials and
supplies; 24 staff months of specialist services; fellowships and training
of ICD staff.
Improvements in the Teachinp of Science
3.17     The overall aim of this component is to strengthen secondary
education, particularly in the areas of science and mathematics, in support
of efforts to meet the growing scientific and technological needs of
Tanzania. The improvements would lead to a greater understanding among
students of scientific principles underlying the process of modern
agriculture and technology developing in Tanzania, and thus prepare
secondary school graduates to play an active, informed and productive role
when they enter the labor market. The enhanced understanding of the place
of science and technology and of mathematical concepts would further enable
them to form educated opinions on the social aspects of natural resource
utilization and industrial development, and thereby play an important part
in improving the quality of life for all Tanzanians.
3.18     The attainment of this aim would require changes in the science
curriculum and classroom methodology in teaching science and mathematics.
These changes would be achieved by: (a) initiating and sustaining a process
of curriculum reform, by involving the TRCs with the ICD in the trial use
of selected science materials from elsewhere in Africa (e.g. Ghana, Niger,
Senegal, Uganda, Zimbabwe, and other sources as examples of appropriate
curriculum materials), for Forms I and II of all secondary schools, leading
to the design and testing of raw Tanzanian instructional materials and low-
cost equipment; (b) refurbishing and equipping nine zonal TRCs (including
facilities at MANTEP) on the mainland and one in Zanzibar; (c) promoting
the use of pupil-centered practical methodology using low-cost equipment,
through a series of 'hands-on' workshops; (d) training teachers in the use
of newly developed materials; (e) providing material and technical
assistance to the TRCs so that they can initiate the production of simple
low-cost equipment by the teachers themselves; and (f) providing successful
teachers with the opportunity to obtain further professional experience
through the possibility of attending national and international seminars
and science fairs. At negotiations, the Government agreed with the
timetable for the implementation of the unified science program (Annex 15
describes the program in detail), including in particular, the following
benchmarks:



- 33 -
(a) by March 31, 1991, the Government will prepare and discuss with
IDA a schedule for the improvement of science teaching in
secondary schools, setting out the curriculum development process
required to bring about the introduction of a unified science
syllabus;
(b) completion of the training program to familiarize secondary school
teachers with the unified science syllabus by December 31, 1991;
(c) testing of the unified science program and materials in about 50
pilot secondary schools (five schools clustered around each TRC)
during school year 1992;
(d) evaluation of the experience in pilot schools and completion of
revisions in the program incorporating the evaluation results by
December 31, 1993;
(e) nationwide introduction of the unified science syllabus in the
first two years of secondary education in school year 1994, and of
a new 0-level syllabus in school year 1995. Selected schools with
proven high academic standards would continue to offer the
separate science curriculum for secondary schools.
3.19     The project would finance (Base Cost: US$4.39 million): (a)
building renovations, furniture, basic office equipment, and a vehicle for
each TRC; (b) provision of sample instructional materials and equipment to
the ICD, TRCs and pilot secondary schools; (c) sensitization and training
seminars for teacher>-; (d) technical assistance (possibly in the form of
volunteer services); and (e) provision of science kits for about 120 public
secondary schools. The procurement of these science kits would be subject
to the completion of evaluation described in para 3.18(d) above. Details
of the personnel, material and operational requirements of this component
are described in Annex 16.
Textbook Development Program
3.20     The availability of relevant instructional materials, particularly
textbooks, in the classroom is a vital determinant of student performance.
Given this importance, the project would support the Tanzanian Textbook
Program to achieve the following specific objectives: (a) to strengthen the
MOE capacity to manage the textbook program; (b) to raise the levels of
efficiency in textbook production and distribution and lower unit costs by
allowing the commercial sector to compete for textbook publishing, printing
and distribution services and provide incentives for their participation;
(c) to plan, develop and produce a relevant improved primary and secondary
school series of textbooks and teachers guides, including the introduction
of environmental themes in the primary curriculum; (d) to orient school
teachers, headmasters, inspectors, and other educators on the effective use
of the improved materials; and (e) to increase the supply of textbooks and
teachers' guides in the field. Details of the proposed textbook production
and distribution processes are described in Annex 17.
3.21     Improvement of Textbook Production and Distribution.  The project
would support the development of capacity in the MOE to manage the



- 34 -
publishing, printing and distribution of school textbooks for all levels.
Towards this end, the Book Management Unit (BMU) would be established under
the MOE/DPL. 3I The BMU would supervise all procurement and award of
publishing and printing services to produce the textbooks and teacher
guides from the manuscripts prepared by the ICD and approved by the MOE.
In addition, the BMU would oversee the delivery of textbooks to the central
and/or regional warehouses, and monitor the distribution by the MLG from
the central and/or regional warehouses to schools and other outlets. For
this latter purpose, BMU would make use of the findings of the MOE textbook
distribution study supported by SIDA, to map out the appropriate strategy
and mechanisms for distributing textbooks to all Districts. The MOE Action
Committee 4/ has been established to provide advice to the Permanent
Secretary on problems and/or issues that may arise concerning the writing,
editing, publication, printing and distribution of textbooks. However, the
Action Committee would not be involved in the day-to-day management of the
textbook production program.
3.22     At negotiations, the Government agreed to undertake the following
steps to improve the textbook development process:
(a) Contracts for the publication, printing and distribution of
textbooks will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
Printers would be allowed one reprint right for primary and
secondary te'-tbooks provided that they exercise this right within
five years of contract award and that they carry out their initial
contract with the Government diligently. Printing and publishing
materials (including paper) and equipment have been included under
the expanded Open General Licencing (OGL) facility so that local
private publishers and printers can effectively compete for
textbook contracts.
(b) By June 30, 1991, the Government will publicly announce that by
that date, complementary private marketing channels will be
allowed to open and operate to facilitate purchases of additional
textbooks by individuals.
(c) By March 31 of each year, the Government will discuss and agree
with IDA on the adequate funds allocated annually to the MOE for
textbook development, field-testing, and teacher orientation.
(d) By January 1, 1993, the Government will adopt improved timetables
for primary and secondary schools, integrating related subject
3/   The BMU would absorb the functions and staff of, and replace the
Primary Education Coordinating Office (PECO) under the MOE/DPE.
4/   The Action Committef is headed by the MOE Permanent Secretary.  The
committee members c'.aiprise the heads of the various MOE directorates,
ICD and representatives of other Ministries (MLG, Finance). From
time to time, experts and/or representatives of parastatal and
private publishing and printing firms may be invited to provide
technical or other advice to the Committee, but would not sit in as
members of the Action Committee.



- 35 -
areas and optimizing teaching in the general academic subjects
supported by the new textbook series.
3.23     The project would finance (Base Cost: US$0.33 million): about 12
staff months of technical assistance in the skill areas of textbook
publishing, printing and distribution; overseas training of key BMU staff;
office equipment (computer and software) and vehicles for the BMU.
Development of Primary School Textbooks
3.24     The project would increase the availability of primary textbooks
in schools by providing a 'minimum package' of basic textbooks to all
primary schools. The "minimum package, would consist of at least one book
per three students (the current ratio is one book per 10-12 students) per
title. The primary textbook production program would be implemented in two
overlapping phases. During the first phase (1990-92), selected titles of
textbooks and teachers' guides (English, science, and mathematics for
Standards III-VII) currently being developed at the ICD, would be printed
and distributed to schools. Phase two (1990-96) would be launched
simultaneously for the systematic development, field-testing, production,
and distribution of the new series in Kiswahili, English, health and
livelihood, social studies, science, and mathematics for standards I-VII.
3.25     The principal activities for the development of the new primary
school series are described below. The specific steps would be worked out
in detail during project implementation witb the assistance of textbook
consultants supported by SIDA:
(a) Manuscript development. Based on curriculum and other education
research conducted at the ICD or under appropriate arrangements
with the UDSFE (para. 3.11(a)), scope-and-sequence charts would be
developed at the ICD and adapted by subject matter committees to
write chapters, units and lessons. Pilot editions would be tried
out in about 20 representative schools for a full academic year.
ICD writers and editors would visit the tryout sites periodically
to gather feedback through observation and teacher interviews, and
use this information as bases for subsequent manuscript revision.
Completed manuscripts would be edited and submitted to the MOE
Commissioner for review and approval for nationwide use.
(b) Production and manufacturing. Publishing and printing contracts
would be awarded competitively to local qualified firms in
accordance with procedures acceptable to SIDA, since SIDA is
financing this sub-component. Approved manuscripts would be made
available to qualified local publishers who would (i) provide the
services (production or copy editing, graphic design, typesetting,
illustration, page makeup) to prepare the books for manufacturing,
and (ii) be responsible for monitoring the performance of
printers, inspecting for quality control, and ensuring compliance
with all other contractual requirements. Delivery of finished
books would be made to the MOE warehouses either in Dar es Salaam
or in the regions. The BMU would oversee the procurement and
delivery of textbook production and manufacturing services. Annex
17 shows the proposed primary textbook printing schedule.



- 36 -
(c) Distribution. The BMU would prepare textbook distribution lists
based on current enrollment data. Following the recommendations
of the textbook distribution study (para 3.21), the BMU would
arrange for deliveries to districts or schools through any/or
combination of the following means: (i) by district officials
retrieving the books from the central and/or regional warehouses
and distributing these to schools; and/or (ii) through textbook
delivery contracts awarded competitively to local transport firms.
(d) Teacher orientation. The ICD would organize curriculum developers
into teams to conduct two- to three-day orientation workshops for
about 10,000 headmasters gathered annually at the zonal TRCs. The
workshops would focus on lesson planning, classroom management,
and practical testing through the use of the new textbooks and
teachers' guides. Headmasters attending these workshops would in
turn train the teachers in their respective schools.
3.26     The project would finance (Base Cost: US$11.72 million): (a) all
non-salary costs related to the manuscript planning, writing/rewriting,
field-testing, revision, and editing of about 74 titles (38 textbooks, 36
teachers' guides) of the new primary series; (b) the costs of publishing,
printing and distributing about 13 million copies of primary textbooks and
teachers' guides; (c) the non-salary cost of the teacher orientation
workshops; and (d) 36 staff months of specialist assistance to the TCD in
skill areas of textbook development.
3.27     Sustainability.  Through the budget of the MLG, the Government
currently allocates TSh252 per primary pupil per year to the districts for
purchasing teaching materials for primary schools (i.e. textbooks, exercise
books, chalk, etc.). However, the sum is insufficient to cover all these
purchases even with the present SIDA subsidies for textbook paper and
printing supplies. Out of the TSh252, the Government agreed to earmark
TSh7O for textbook purchases alone. Although it has been calculated that
the TSh7O may presently be adequate to cover the non-paper costs of
producing textbooks, the amount would have to be raised significantly if it
were also to cover the paper costs. To ensure the financial viability of
the textbook program after project completion, this figure would need to be
reviewed during project implementation in the light of actual costs
incurred and prevailing estimates of full textbook production costs. In
order to pave the way for eventual withdrawal of Government dependence on
external grants for textbooks, at negotiations, it was agreed that
beginning fiscal year 1991, the Government would gradually increase its
annual budgetary allocation for the minimum primary textbook package, in
accordance with a plan of action agreed with IDA during the annual review
of project implementation. Because of misuse of the district allocations
for primary schools in the past, the MLG has devised more effective



- 37 -
mechanisms to safeguard the use of the funds. 5/ The Government confirmed
at negotiations that the MOE and the MLG have agreed upon the arrangements
for the management and accounting of district funds for primary education,
including that allocated for books. These accountability arrangements
would further be refined as part of the SIDA supported textbook study. The
study would also work out the details of the appropriate financing
mechanisms which will ensure the provision of textbooks to primary school
students after the project. At negotiations, the Government agreed that,
by December 31, 1991, it will furnish IDA for its review and comments, a
plan of action for establishing this financing mechanism for primary
textbooks. The impact of the project and of the gradual removal of
subsidized paper on the Government budget is described in Annex 18.
Development of Secondary School Textbooks
3.28     The project would increase the availability of textbooks for
secondary schools to the ratio of one book of each basic title for every
two students, by supporting the secondary textbook production program which
would be implemented in two phases. During phase one, the ICD would review
the current '0' Level series in Kiswahili and the various social sciences
and, based on the feedback accumulated over years of use in schools, revise
them into two coherent series for Kiswahili and for social science. The
ICD would also select, from a sample of titles available from African
countries, the appropriate series for science, mathematics, and English for
Forms I-IV, and obtain the reprinting and adaptation rights for these
books. The reprint editions would be tested in a small sample of 12-15
secondary schools selected as field-testing sites. Feedback subsequently
gathered would be the basis for the development under phase two of a new
secondary series in those subject areas.
3.29     The revised secondary textbooks would be published, following
international competitive (ICB) procedures following IDA Guidelines, for
editorial and other services including printing. Distribution services
would be awarded following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
following IDA Guidelines. The printing schedule for secondary school
textbooks is shown in Annex 17.
3.30     The project would finance (Base Cost: US$2.08 million): (a) all
non-salary development costs of the new Kiswahili and social science
series; (b) the acquisition of samples of the desired African textbook
titles including payment of all costs involved in obtaining the subsidiary
reprinting and adaptation rights to produce the Tanzanian field-testing
S/   In 1988, MLG established tighter mechanisms to control the use of
"Account No. 5' which holds District funds intended exclusively for
educational purposes (books, school supplies, school maintenance,
teacher salaries).  Funds for textbooks would be earmarked.  Account
No. 5 funds come from two sources: (a) the annual MLG allocation of
TSh252 per primary pupil per year; and (b) levies on commodities
produced by district constituents. The District Executive Director
(DED), an official of the MLG, is fully answerable for the District
budget. However, Account No. 5 funds can now only be disbursed with
the approval and signature of the DEO, an official of the MOE.



- 38 -
editions in science, English, and mathematics; (c) attendance by MOE/lCD
textbook development staff at appropriate international book fairs; and (d)
the costs of publishing, printing and distributing the complete secondary
textbook series (about 520,000 copies).
Development of School Libraries
3.31     Effective school libraries hold a central place in the teaching
and learning processes in schools -- they can provide a range of
information and reading materials for student use outside the classroom,
and offer opportunities for teachers to supplement the textbook and
blackboard with new and stimulating material in the classroom. The
effective exploitation of school library resources requires a gradual
change in attitudes towards the teaching process, away from a rigid
reliance on "talk and chalk' methodology. The prerequisite for this change
is the provision of good and appropriate school library stock accessible to
both students and teachers. School library development also requires a
sustained input into the teacher training process, in which trainee
teachers have the opportunity to become familiar with the range of
materials they may likely find in school libraries, to experiment with
using the materials in their teaching, and to become familiar with the
mechanics of storing/retrieving information in libraries. Towards these
ends, the project would support the development and reinforcement of school
libraries in primary and secondary schools, TTCs and the UDS.
3.32     Pilot Primary School Libraries.  In addition to the textbooks and
teachers guides, the project would provide about 100 remote rural primary
schools with a basic reference collection consisting of dictionaries,
atlases, encyclopedias for children, professional books and journals for
teachers (about US$3,000). The reference collection would be maintained at
the headmaster's office, for loan to teachers and classes. Furthermore, a
selection of juvenile fiction and nonfiction titles (about US$500) would be
previded to about five classrooms in each of the selected schools, for loan
to children by their respective homeroom teachers. The ICD would prepare
acquisition lists for these collections, for purchase from Tanzanian and
international publishers. Lockable bookcases would also be provided.
Headmasters in these schools would receive training on the basics of book
documentation, circulation, and maintenance. Educational achievements of
students in these pilot schools would be compared to those from schools not
provided with the supplementary learning materials as part of the studies
described in para. 3.11(a).
3.33     Secondary School Libraries.  The library collections in about 150
public secondary schools would be upgraded under the project and would be
provided an updated selection of about 500 reference, nonfiction and
fiction titles (about US$5,000 per school). Additionally, the MOE
Department of Secondary Education (MOE/DSE) would identify 20 of the most
disadvantaged secondary schools (one per region) whose library facilities
would be upgraded under the project. All secondary school library staff
would receive retraining oni the administration of school library services.
3.34     College Libraries.  To reinforce the reference collections of the
40 TTCs, the project would provide each TTC, a set of about 100 titles



- 39 -
(about US$5,000 per TTC) of current A-level and general interest texts on
the various science and social science disciplines.
3.35     University Library.  The project would reinforce the reference
collection of the UDS library by providing about 1,000 selected titles
(about US$50,000) from international publishers of current undergraduate
texts and teachers guides in the various science and social science
disciplines.
3.36     The project would finance (Base Cost: US$2.96 million): (a) the
acquisition of reference books for the primary and secondary school, TTC
and UDS libraries; (b) about six staff-months of specialist services in
librarianship; all non-salary retraining costs in library services for
headmasters and library staff; (d) testing and other evaluation costs; (e)
refurbishing of library facilities in about 20 disadvantaged secondary
schools; and (e) procurement of library bookcases and related fixtures.
OBJECTIVE C:   Strengthening the Mobilization and Effective Utilization of
Non-government Resources and Support for Education
Developing a Comprehensive School Maintenance Strategy for Primary Schools
3.37     One of the factors contributing to poor learning in Tanzanian
schools is the poor physical environment, in particular the dilapidated
status of most primary school facilities. About 70 percent of the 10,400
existing primary schools are estimated to require some form of major repair
and/or replacement. Given the magnitude of the school rehabilitation need
and the resource limitations, the Government recognizes that the motivation
of local communities and mobilization of non-government resources to
rehabilitate and maintain the school facilities would be a desirable and
viable strategy.
3.38     The project would assist the MOE and MLG develop and implement a
comprehensive primary school rehabilitation and maintenance strategy by:
(a) building capacity at the local level to rehabilitate and maintain
primary schools. School Maintenance and Rehabilitation Teams
(SMART) would be formed in the 105 Districts, and trained, among
others, on techniques of: organizing and supervising community-
level SMARTs and construction brigades, laying out building plans,
fabricating low-cost construction components (e.g., roof tiles,
building blocks, etc.) from local materials, basic construction
methods, building maintenance, etc.;
(b) supporting the formulation of cost-effective norms for primary
school construction and maintenance patterned after the methods
developed under the ongoing MOE secondary school maintenance
project assisted by DANIDA. Presently, the existing primary
school design standards are being revised by the MOE School
Construction Unit to reduce investment and maintenance costs, by
optimizing classroom capacity, standardizing dimensions,
maximizing the use of local materials, and simplifying
construction methods. These improved design standards would be



- 40 -
applied under the project. By June 30, 1991, the Government would
prepare and discuss with IDA a comprehensive school maintenance
strategy which would also provide for a gradual increase of
recurrent allocations for school maintenance incorporating the
results of the study described in para 3.11.; and
(c) promoting incentives for community participation by rehabilitating
a sub-set of primary schools selected in accordance with agreed
criteria (Annex 19). The Government has decided to let the local
communities implement the school repairs. The project would
provide building materials, while the communities would contribute
labor resources and towards the services of community-level
SMARTs. About ten percent of the primary schools needing repairs
would be rehabilitated under the project. This number is deemed
sufficient to promote the desired impetus for the long-term
primary school rehabilitation effort. The number of schools
attended to would be equivalent to about 750 complete (Standard I-
VII) primary schools, or about 5,200 classrooms accommodating
200,000 student places (a completior rate of about 12 classrooms
per district per year). School rep,irs would be undertaken only
in districts not included under th school rehabilitation work
financed under the Seventh Educat in Project (Credit 1056-TA).
3.39     The school rehabilitation program would be implemented in five
phases.  The implementation details and the regional distribution of
schools to be rehabilitated under the project are described in Annex 20.
(a) Phase 1 (Year 1 of the project) - SMARTs would be formed in each
of the 105 districts and trained in the areas described above in
para. 3.38(a). All district-level SMARTs, each comprising 2-3
selected craftsmen from the district, would be constituted by
December 31, 1990. The Government provided assurances at
negotiations, that those trained under the project would be
required to render at least two years of service to their
districts. Also by December 31, 1990, the first 100 primary
schools meeting the selection criteria (Annex 19), and to be
repaired, would be presented for IDA review. The MLG Deputy
Project Coordinator, in consultation with the DEO and the DED,
would select the schools and advise the participating communities.
(b) Phases 2 to 5 (each a two-stage process of about 15-18 months of
school repair work) would be overlapping phases:
(i)   Stage 1.  The DEOIDED would mobilize the selected locality
to form a community-level SMART and a construction brigade
to implement the school repairs. District SMARTs (formed
under phase 1) would train the community SMARTS and assist
in organizing the construction brigades preparatory to
Stage 2. Bicycles would be provided the district SMARTs to
facilitate commuting between communities.  NGO and/or
volunteer assistance would be sought, whenever possible, to
assist communities with scarce resources. During Stage 1,
the MLG Deputy Project Coordinator would initiate the



- 41 -
procurement of building materials and schedule deliveries
to the school sites.
(ii) Stage 2 would constitute the rehabilitation of the 750
primary school equivalents, grouped into four sub-setss 100
school equivalents in Phase 2 (beginning Year 2 of the
project); the rest (650) during Phases 3-5. At the end of
each Phase, the progress, quality of work done, as well as
the effectiveness of the construction brigades, SMARTS and
the overall management of the program would be assessed to
determine the appropriate scope of succeeding phase.
3.40     Management.  At negotiations, the Government confirmed that the
.lOE and MLG have agreed on the procedures and accountability for the
delivery, receipt and use of materials and resources provided under the
projiect, and provided assurances that these materials and resources would
be properly used and accounted for. Overall responsibility for the
implementation of the school rehabilitation program would reside in the MLG
Deputy Project Coordinator.  The MOE School Construction Unit would provide
technical advice on building construction and repair, and building
materials procurement. The DEO would ensure that all materials and
resources allocated to the selected district schools are received on the
site and used for the project as intended, and that MOE school building
standards are met. Due to the wide coverage of the program, the services
of a construction management consultant would be engaged to assist the PCT
and the MLG Deputy Project Coordinator in particular in: developing a
school maintenance policy, strategy and procedures; developing a training
program for district-level SMARTs; organizing the school rehabilitation
program including materials procurement and distribution; and preparing
evaluation instruments to measure implementation progress. A consolidated
progress report would be presented for IDA review before the conclusion of
each stage of implementation, to be used as a basis for any necessary
adjustments in scope or scheduling of the succeeding activities. The terms
of reference of the construction management consultant are in Annex 21.
3.41     The project would finance (Base Cost: US$15.25 million): (a) about
60 staff months of construc ion management consultant services and 20 staff
months of locally recruited engineers to assist the PCT; (b) about 300
bicycles for district-level SMARTs; (c) the non-salary costs of training
SMARTs; (d) building materials for the rehabilitation and furnishing of
about 5,200 classrooms including repairslimprovement or provision of water
and sanitary facilities and roofing materials for teachers houses built by
the community; and (e) costs of supervision by district-level SMARTs. The
local communities would contribute labor for rehabilitating the schools,
and towards the services of community-level SMARTs. DANIDA has expressed
its interest in financing the technical assistance needs of this component
as well as the rehabilitation of schools in some districts.
Support to Community Financed Secondary Schools
3.42     The Government aims to increase access to secondary school places
from currently 5 percent of primary school leavers to 15 percent by the
year 2000. However, due to resource constraints, its ten-year investment
program to build 80 new secondary schools falls short of achieving this



- 42 -
objective. Over the past five years, initiatives have been undertaken by
local communities to finance the establishment and operation of secondary
schools, through NGOs such as DETFs and parent associations. Where
community schools have been put up, access to secondary places has in many
cases already exceeded the Government target, and student performance has
improved. The Government aims to encourage these initiatives further by
providing incentives to increase community participation in expanding
secondary education.
3.43     The project would assist Government efforts to encourage community
self-help initiatives in establishing new secondary schools by setting up
and supporting the initial operations of an independent National Education
Trust Fund (NETF). The NETF would provide grant-in-aid to DETFs or similar
community-based non-profit organizations, selected in accordance with the
criteria described in Annex 22, to match their capital investments in
establishing day secondary schools. The NETF grant, provided on a one
(NETF) to three (Community) basis, may be utilized by the DETF/community
towards the acquisition of: (a) building materials required to complete the
school to MOE standards; (b) approved textbooks and reference materials;
(c) school furniture and equipment; and (d) in-service training of teachers
and training of DETF managers. The DTEFs/NGOslcommunities would finance
the labor costs for completing the construction of the eligible schools.
NORAD has expressed its interest in financing the establishment and initial
operations of the NETF on a parallel basis.
3.44     Eligibility for NETF Assistance.  The DETF/coummunity contributions
would be assessed on the basis of (a) the sunk capital costs of school
facilities and materials set in place, and (b) current unit construction
costs of day secondary schools patterned after the improved MOE secondary
school design standards. In the selection process, a participating school
may have been established by a DETFINGO, built by the community and handed
over to the Government for staffing and maintenrnce (government-assisted
school), or be under the aegis of a religious organization which has
depended on community support for the school's establishment, and where
attendance is not restricted to a particular denomination or religious
grouping. In addition, the release of NETF matching funds would be
conditional upon the DETFfNGO granting of full scholarships to secondary
education to at least three primary school leavers annually, coming from
poor families unable to afford school fees and obtaining the highest
placements in the primary school leaving examinations.
3.4:     NETF Management.  At negotiations, the Government agreed to
establish the NETF as an independent non-profit entity. The NETF would be
administered by a widely-represented elected Board, and assisted by a
Secretariat responsible for its day-to-day operations, and by a Technical
Committee responsible for appraising and evaluating requests for NETF
support received from DETFs and similar NGOs. The NETF would: (a) serve to
channel other grants/monetary reso"rces from donor agencies, etc., for
educational development; (b) be empowered to raise funds to supplement its
financial resources and expand operations; and (c) in its statutes provide
a mechanism for decentralizing operations to the regional level for greater
efficiency in allocating resources and monitoring DETF/NGO performance.
The operating procedures of the NETF are described in Annex 22. The NETF
structure would be refined during a workshop to be convened by June 30,



- 43 -
1990, among representatives of the Government (MOE, MOF, AGC), DETFs and
NGOs, NORAD and IDA. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that the NETF would be formally established and its Board, Secretariat and
Technical Committee appointed by June 30, 1991.
3.46     The PCT would monitor the performance of the community secondary
school assistance program. The MOE School Construction Unit would provide
architectural, engineering and procurement services to the NETF and as
needed to DETFs and NGOs implementing the program. The MOE has established
within the MOEIDSE, a Division responsible for supervising, and overseeing
the compliance of non-government secondary schools with MOE prescribed
standards for curriculum content and syllabus, teacher qualifications,
student/teacher ratios, school timetables, and physical facilities
(building norms, equipment, furniture). At negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the academic performance of community schools
assisted under the project and their compliance with MOE standards would be
closely monitored in accordance with performance indicators which would be
elaborated at the workshop (para. 3.45) to refine the NETF structure.
3.47     About 15 DETFs or other community NGOs are expected to meet the
criteria for receiving grant-in-aid from the NETF for secondary schools.
The project would finance (Base Cost: US$4.04 million) DETFINGO requests
to: (a) complement DETF/NGO efforts to construct, equip and furnish about
10 new secondary day schools; (b) complete, equip and furnish about 50
existing secondary schools; (c) provide in-service training to about 300
secondary school teachers; and (d) train about 30 DETF managers.



- 44 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, DISBURSEHENTS AND PROCUREMENT
A. PROJECT COSTS
4.01     Summary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the project is
estimated at US$ 67.5 million equivalent, inclusive of customs duties and
taxes (about US$3.9 million equivalent) on civil works and locally procured
goods and services. Items imported directly for the project would be
exempt from import duties and taxes. Detailed costs are presented in Annex
23 and summarized in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1s Project Cost Sumuary
Project Costs a/
Z Total
Project Component                  (US$ million equiv)             Base
Foreign  Local  Total   Z FE   Costs
Strengthening of Sector Planning and Management
Strengthening of Education Management    1.2    1.3       2.5    47       5
Development of MOE Information Base        0.5    0.3     0.8    63       2
Educational Research and Studies           0.6    0.8     1.4    42       3
Improvement of Education Quality
Strengthening of ICD                       1.5    0.8     2.3    66       5
Improvement of Science Teaching            3.4    1.0     4.4    76       9
Strengthening of BMU                       0.3    0.0     0.3    92       1
Provision of Primary Textbooks             9.5    2.2    11.7    81      24
Provision of Secondary Textbooks           1.5    0.6     2.1    70       4
Upgrading of School Libraries              2.6    0.4     3.0    86       6
Mobilization of Conmunity Resources
Rehab/Maintenance of Primary Schools       6.3    9.3    15.6    41      32
NETF Support for Secondary Schools         2.2    1.8     4.0    55       8
TOTAL BASE COST                      29.6   18.5    48.1    61    100
Physical Contingencies                       2.7    1.8     4.5    61       9
Price Contingencies                          4.8   10.1    14.9    32      31
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   37.1   30.4    67.5    55
a/  Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$3.9 million equivalent.
4.02     Basis of Cost Estimates.  The project base costs are in January
1990 prices, calculated in US dollars, and converted to Tanzanian Shillings
at the prevailing exchange rate of TSh 193lUS$1.0. Civil works costs are
based on school building contracts and building material costs under Credit
1056-TA recently adjusted by PPS to reflect current price movements. Unit



- 45 -
costs of furnishings, equipment, vehicles and teaching materials are based
on contracts for similar items recently awarded under the Credit 1056-TA
through the procurement wing (EQUIPRO) of the International Labor
Organization and price quotations given in international catalogues
including the UNIPAC catalogue produced by the UNICEF procurement wing.
Technical assistar-e costs for experts recruited internationally include
costs of salaries, allowances and airfares and average US$12,000 per staff-
month for short-term consultants. Services of local consultants average
US$2,000 per staff-month. Short-term training overseas, including travel
and subsistence costs, is estimated at US$3,500 per month. Costs of
primary textbooks, including materials, printing and distribution costs,
average about US$l per copy. Secondary school textbooks average US$5 per
copy including payment of reprint rights, printing, and distribution.
4.03     The foreign exchange component, estimated at US$37.1 u:illion or 55
percent of the total project cost including taxes and duties, has been
calculated as follows: (a) 45 percent for contracted civil works and
furniture; (b) 50 percent for primary and secondary school building
materials; (c) 100 percent for library books, vehicles, overseas training
and study tours; (d) 95 percent for internationally recruited experts,
equipment, office supplies and reference materials; (e) 80 percent for
textbook printing, publishing and distribution, and for equipment operation
and maintenance; (f) 50 percent for textbook development, in-country
seminars/training and project related trips, communications and other
operating expenses; (g) 20 percent for building operation and maintenance;
(h) 0 percent for staff salaries and per diem; and (i) 30 percent for
studies, and services of local consulting firms.
4.04     Physical contingencies of US$4.5 million equivalent have been
estimated at 10 percent of base costs for all categories of expenditure,
except technical assistance (experts, studies and overseas training) which
has been estimated at 5 percent. The total price contingencies of US$14.9
million equivalent are based on a six-year project implementation period
commencing in July 1990 (Annex 24 shows the project implementation
schedule) and the following expected annual rates of increase: (a) foreign
- 4.9 percent in 1990-96; and (b) local - 21 percent in 1990/91, 15 percent
in 1991192, 12 percent in 1992/93, and 10 percent in 1993-96.
4.05     Recurrent Costs.  In order to achieve an acceptable level of
sustainability for the new operations developed, the project includes the
following measures designed to minimize incremental recurrent costs:
(a) development of an action program by the MOE to rationalize fees
for students at secondary schools (para. 3.11);
(b) improving efficiency in textbook production and distribution and
lowering book costs by allowing non-government publishers,
printers and distributors to compete for the delivery of these
services, and by allowing complementary marketing channels to open
and operate (paras. 3.22, 3.25 and 3.29);
(c) developing appropriate financing mechanisms to handle and channel
funds allocated and received for textbooks to ensure provision of
textbooks to primary students after the project (para. 3.27); and



- 46 -
(d) improving the school design standards to reduce capital and
maintenance costs and encouraging community self-reliance and
mobilizing local resources to maintain schools (para. 3.37).
4.06     In current terms, the total incremental recurrent costs generated
by the project would amount to about US$2.0 million equivalent over a six-
year period. Of this amount, local communities would finance US$0.2
million equivalent for maintenance of the rehabilitated primary schools.
The balance of US$1.7 million would be financed by the Government (US$1.3
million from MOE and US$0.5 million from MLG). The incremental cost to the
Government is attributed to: (a) for the MOE - the increased staffing and
operational costs of the ICD, the BHU, the new MOE management information
system, TRCs, and the NETF; and (b) for the MLG - supervision of the school
rehabilitation program. The incremental recurrent cost is not expected to
cause undue difficulty for the Government to absorb and is considered
sustainable.
B. *FIIWCING
4.07     The total project cost of US$67.5 million equivalent, including
taxes and duties, would be financed by the Government, the participating
local communities, IDA, SIDA, and NORAD, in accordance with the financing
plan shown in Table 4.2 below.
TABLE 4.2: Financing Plan (US$ million)
Foreign     Local       Taxes      Total
TANZANIA:
Government             0.4        1.6         3.9        5.9
Communities            0.0        6.4         0.0        6.4
IDA                      22.5       15.8         0.0       38.3
NORAD                     2.9        2.0         0.0        4.9
SIDA                     11.3        0.7         0.0       12.0
TOTAL                    37.1       26.5         3.9       67.5
4.08     The IDA Credit of US$38.3 million (SDR 29.0 million) would cover
about 57 percent of total project cost or 61 percent of the foreign
exchange cost and 60 percent of the local cost. The Government
contribution of US$5.9 million equivalent would finance about 8.7 percent
of the total project cost including: (a) the incremental costs of salaries
and allowances, operation and maintenance of buildings (ICD and TRCs),
equipment and vehicles; and (b) duties and taxes amounting to US$3.9
million equivalent. About US$6.4 million equivalent or 9.5 percent of
total project cost, would be contributed by the local communities/DETFs
towards equivalent labor costs for rehabilitating and completing the
primary and secondary schools, respectively, and towards recurrent costs
for the maintenance of these facilities. Cofinancing on a parallel basis



- 47 -
would include the following (Annet 25 shows the detailed financing plan).
(a) SIDA has provided about US$12.0 million on grant terms to cover
the costs of paper and printing materials, publishing, printing
and distribution of primary school textbooks, and technical
assistance in textbook production and distribution. SIDA funds
are available for the project through December 1991, under the
current GovernmentlSIDA agreement. A SIDA mission visited
Tanzania in November 1989 to review the textbook production and
distribution program. A SIDA sector mission followed up in March
1990 to define the framework for SIDL involvement for the five-
year horizon 1992-1996. This five-year SIDA program is expected
to be approved by December 1990.
(b) NORAD has expressed its readiness to finance the NETF component of
the project and provide up to US$8.0 million (The project provides
for a more modest coverage amounting to US$4.9 million) on grant
terms for this purpose, and is expected to request IDA to
administer the funds. Approval of the NORAD financing is expected
by May 1990.
(c) DANIDA has expressed interest in financing the technical
assistance requirements of the primary school rehabilitation
program, as well as the rehabilitation of primary schools in some
districts. However, the availability of DANIDA financing has not
been assumed in setting out the cofinancing arrangements under the
project. A DANIDA mission is expected to visit Tanzania by mid-
May 1990 to assess the plan for their involvement.
No cross-effectiveness cosuditions are specified as the components, while
related, are free standing and may proceed independently of one another.



- 48 -
C. DISBURSEEIITS
4.09      Disbursements.  The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a six
and one-half year period (1990 to 1996). Disbursements would be completed
by December 31, 1996. The proposed Credit allocation is shown below in
Table 4.3. The estimated semi-annual disbursement profile is shown in
Annex 26.
TABLE 4.3: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
IBA Allocation    Percentage ot Expenditure
to be Financed
SOR f US8 m
1. Ministry of Education:
(a) Civil works for ICD, TRCs     1.97    2.60  100% of foreign oxpenditures
and public secondary                          and 86% of local expenditureo
ochool libraries
(b) Furniture, equipment, vehicles   2.20    2.90  100% of foreign expenditures
(ox-factory) and 86% of
other local oxpenditures
ic) secondary textbooks, reference   2.72    3.60  1005 of local expenditures
books and library materials                   (ex-factory) and 856 of
other local expenditures
(d) Curriculum/textbook development, 68.81    9.00  1OOX
loeal training, consultants'
services and fellowships
(e) Studies and research          0.76    1.00  100%
(f) Project monagement and non-   0.60    0.80  100% of foreign expenditures
salary administrative costs                   and 60X of local expenditures
2. Ministry of Local Government:
(a) Building materials end        8.32   11.00  10OX of foreign expenditures
for primary schools                           1005 of local expenditures
(ox-factory) and 8SX of
other local expenditures
(b) Consultants' services and     0.68    0.90  100%
training
(c) Project managent and non-     0.15    0.20  100% of foreign expenditures
salary administrative costs                   and SOX of local expenditures
8. Unallocated                        4.79    8.80
TOTAL                        29.00   38.30
4.10      Special Accounts.  To expedite implementation, the Government
would establish the following accounts for the project, in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA.
(a) MOE Special Account in US Dollars under the MOE Directorate of
Planning for expenditures related to the procurement of: (i) civil
works, equipment, furniture and engineering services for the ICD,



- 49 -
school libraries and TRCs; (ii) secondary textbook publishing,
printing and distribution; (iii) library and reference materials;
(iv) technical assistance, research and studies; and (v) project
management, operational and other non-salary expenditures.
(Category 1 (a) through (f)).
(b) MLG Special Account in US Dollars under the Deputy Project
CoordinatorfMLG for expenditures related to the procurement of
building materials and furniture for the rehabilitation of primary
schools, and non-salary expenditures for the supervision of this
component. (Category 2 (a) through (c)).
4.11     IDA would effect initial deposits of (a) US$1,000,000 in the MOE
Special Account, and (b) US$500,000 in the HLG Special Account, after
receipt and approval of withdrawal applications. These amounts are
estimated to cover about four months of eligible payments. Replenishment
applications would be submitted monthly and would be accompanied by the
full documentation except for items eligible for disbursement on the basis
of certified SOEs. All requests for replenishment of the special accounts
would be consolidated by the PCT and countersigned by the PCT Project
Coordinator. All disbursements would be fully documented except for (i)
contracts and purchase orders valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, and
(ii) expenditures for local training programs and non-salary operating
costs. Documentation for these expenditures would be by means of certified
statements of expenditure (SOE). Documentation would be retained by the
PCT and would be made available for review by Bank supervision missions and
project auditors.
4.13     Counterpart Funds.  Adequate counterpart funds would be provided
at the beginning of each financial year by the Government through the
annual budgets of the MOE and MLG to ensure that the project is implemented
as described in the project implementation schedule (Annex 24). By March
31 of each year, the Government would reach agreement with IDA on the
adequate budgetary provision to support the project during the subsequent
financial year.
4.14     Accounting and Auditing.  The PCT would maintain separate detailed
accounts of all project expenditures incurred by the MOE and other agencies
involved in the project. Short-term technical assistance would be made
available at the end of each financial year to ensure that project accounts
are in order, that financial statements suitable for auditing are drawn up,
and that the project is audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
During the audit of these annual accounts, the auditors would apply special
attention to verifying the reliability of SOEs supporting applications for
reimbursement from the Credit, and to the internal controls and procedures
involved in the preparation of SOEs. The Government would submit to IDA
the audit reports on the project and special accounts and on SOEs as soon
as possible but not later than nine months after the end of each financial
year.



- 50 -
D. PROCUREMENT
4.15        The project-related procurement  arrangements  are as  follows:
TABLE 4.4: Procurement Arrangements (in US$ equivalent)
Prudent    Direct
ICB        LCB    Shopping  Contract    Other         Total
1. Civil work. for ICD, WANTEP         1.8        2.2 Pi                           5.2 ki    8.7
TRC* and school libraries   (1.2)         (2.0)                                        (3.2)
2. Building materials for             138.                                         4.8 Cf   18.4
primary/NETF schools          (18.7)                                                  (18.7)
3. Equipment, vehicles                 8.0                   0 5 d/    0.2 .1    2.8 f/    6.8
and furnituro                  (3.0)                 (0.5)       (0.2)                 (3.7)
4. Primary textbooks                                                              12.6 g/   12.6
S. Secondary textbooks                 1.8                                                     1.8
(1.3)                                                  (1.8)
6. Textbook manuscript                                                             1.1 t/    1.1
development services                                                        (1.1)      (1.1)
7. Library books, teaching                                   0.5 SJ                2.4 iJ    2.9
and office materials                                 (0.5)                  (2.4)      (2.9)
8. TA, studies, training,                                                         12.2 k/   12.2
seminars, project prep                                                     (11.3)    (11.3)
9. Project adminiatratlon                                                          2.9 1/    2.9
and operational cost                                                        (1.1)      (1.1)
10. Maintenance and local                                                           1.1         1.1
staff salaries
TOTAL                          19.4        2.2        1.0        0.2        44.7       67.5
(19.2)      (2.0)      (1.0)      (0.2)    (1S. 9)    (38.3)
Notes: Flru'es In parentheses Indicate aonurts to be fhanced by IDA Credit
a/  Contracts for renodellr MkITEP's facilities, 10 TRCs, 20 secondary school libraries and existbn lCO offIces are
-   dI sed, smll and are spread over tkne, and are not exsected to attract foreign bidders. Contractors would
be pre.llfled folbw    IDA GuldelIes.
b/ Comtnstlon lbor to relabilltate about 750 equlvalent prkmary schools and build about 20 secondary schools wuld
-b provided by coamunites/DETFs In lne with project obbjctive of wbilizing non-govermmaent resources.
c/ Buildhn materlals for NETF schools fInanced by MMAD. Procurement per NOAD procedures.
aV  Small q.antItles of offlee eqUipDnt (desk top coqMter/software, copiers) vlich have to be conpatible with
- exlstkV uIlts would be procured throuh coaarlson of at least three price qotatlons.
a/  Seected prorietary sobcnc kits to servs as prototypes for eqpment developed uder science caonent of
projet to be procred directly from the equlpment naufacturer (USS0.2n).
f/  Equnt and furniture for NETF schools financed by NOI0AD. Procurement per NORAD procedures.
I   PV lihb, printig and distribution of prblary textbooks to be financed by SIDA to be procured through
colIVtItIvO blcklkU
h/  I         uusclpt devekplment costs Itckd authorship and purchase of reprint rlghts from pLbilshers of selected titles.
-  fitors/textbook specialIsts selected follorIbwk  IDA (ildelines for hiring of cosultants (US$0.bm for primary,
US$0.8b for secondary textbook develwnt).
V   Sall  antitles of offife materils and supplies procured throw  caOarison of at least three price quotatlons.
y   Referee materlals and library books procred directly from pLillsher and/or authorIzed agents.
Tedmnial assistanoe and eert servies (local and foren) contracted In accordance with IDA Guidelines.
V7      ndt-es for project-related Internal travel and subsistence costs of project staff authorized In accordanc
with G2ovw t prooedres.
4.16        Procurement  under the project would be undertaken  as follows:
(a) Civil works.
(i)  The contract  for the new ICD  facilities would be awarded on
the basis of ICB procedures among prequalified construction
firms in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines.
Domestic contractors would receive a margin of preference in
bid evaluation of 7.5 percent (following IDA guidelines)
over competing foreign bids.



- 51 -
(ii) Civil works contracts (aggregate US$2.0 million) for
remodelling the ten TRCs and MANTEP (at about US$100,000-
150,000 each), the existing ICD offices (about US$50,000)
and library facilities in 20 secondary schools (US$20,000-
US$25,000 each), which are dispersed and constitute small
packages, would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures.
LCB procedures agreed with the Government would, inter alia;
(1) incorporate explicit statements to bidders of the bid
evaluation and award procedures; (2) be broadly advertised
in local papers with public bid opening; and (3) iot
preclude foreign bidders from participating. The fi.st LCB
document would be reviewed by IDA prior to issuance to
bidders. Civil works contractors would be prequalified in
accordance with IDA Guidelines; and
(iii) In keeping with the objective of mobilizing external
resources, Government has decided that the rehabilitation of
primary and community secondary schools would be implemented
by the local communities and DETFs, respectively, and
managed by the PCT. IDA would finance the building
materials as discussed in (b)(iii) below.
(b) Goods required for the project consisting of textbooks and
teaching materials, schoolloffice furniture and equipment,
vehicles and building materials would be acquired as follows:
(i) Selected titles of library/reference books and printed
materials (US$2.4 million aggregate) would be procured
either directly from the publishers or their authorized
distributors, or on the basis of competitive quotations for
discounts on list prices from retailers/booksellers.
Printing contracts for secondary school textbooks developed
by the ICD (US$1.3 million aggregate) would be procured
through ICB among prequalified printers and publishers.
Local printers and publishers would receive a margin of
preference of 15? over competing foreign bids for the supply
of printed books. The parastatal publishers and printers
(TES, Printpak, Tanzania Publishing House) are autonomous
statutory corporations established under the laws of
Tanzania, and meet the criteria for eligibility of public
sector enterprises to participate in the bids as described
in paras. 88-90 of the Bank's Operational Directive No. 11.
Primary school textbooks (US$12.0 million), which are to be
financed by SIDA, would be procured in accordance with SIDA
procedures.
(ii) School/office equipment, furniture and vehicles (US$3.0
million) would be procured through ICB following IDA
Guidelines. Equipment (such as desk-top computers and
software) which have to be compatible with existing units,
as well as miscellaneous supplies which cannot be grouped
into bid packages of US$50,000 or more, may be procured
through "prudent shopping" by comparing prices obtained from



- 52 -
three independent suppliers. Items procured through
'prudent shopping, would be subject to an aggregate limit of
US$1.0 million equivalent. Selected proprietary 'low-cost"
science equipment for secondary schools and TRCs (US$0.25
million) to be used as prototypes for the project, would be
procured directly from the equipment manufacturers.
(iii) Building materials for repairs (US$13.7 million aggregate)
of primary school buildings would be procured through ICB
following IDA Guidelines. The management and system of
accountability for the delivery, receipt and proper use of
these materials are described above in para 3.41. Building
materials and equipment for NETF secondary schools financed
by NORAD would be procured in accordance with NORAD
procedures.
(c) Services. Consultant and professional services for training,
studies, research, and school construction management would be
procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Authorship and
reprinting rights for selected secondary school textbooks (US$0.8
million) would be negotiated with the publishers. Some bunching
could occur in the deliveries of books and other materials to
recipient schools and, therefore, may not be handled in time by
the transport facilities of MOE and MLG. In such cases, delivery
contracts would be awarded competitively to prequalified transport
firms. Services for the distribution of primary textbooks, which
would be financed by SIDA, would be procured following SIDA
procedures.
4.17     Contract Review.  Bidding packages for civil works, goods and
services valued at more than US$250,000 would be subject to IDA's prior
review of procurement documentation, including tender documents, evaluation
reports, and draft contracts. Such prior review would result in a coverage
of about 70 percent of the total value of contracts financed by IDA.
Smaller packages would be subject to random post-award review by IDA.
Terms of reference, curriculum vitae and draft contracts and letters of
appointment for consultants would be reviewed by IDA prior to appointment
of the consultants.



- 53 -
V. PROJECT MARAGIEMNT. IHELzHENTATION AND REPORTING
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
5.01     The institutional arrangements for implementing the project are
designed to (a) strengthen the cap,-kity of existing organizational units of
MOE and of MLG (responsible for primavy education) to discharge their day-
to-day functions effectively, and (b) tighten coordination between
institutions within and outside the MOE in order to realize the timely and
efficient execution of the project objectives. The lead and secondary
responsibilities for execution of project activities are shown below. The
project management arrangements are described in detail in Annex 12.
Table 5.1: Agency Responsibility for Project Execution
Component/Sub-Component              Lead/Secondary Agency
Objective 1 : Strengthening of Institutional Capacity
Research and Studies                   MOE/DPL, UDSFE
Training of REOs, DEOs, Inspectors     MOE/DPL, Department of Inspection
Information Systems                    MOEIDPL
Project Management                     MOE DPL
Objective 2:   Qualitative Improvements
Curriculum Revision                    ICD
Textbook Manuscript Preparation        ICD
Field Testing of Books                 ICD
Textbook Publishing, Printing          BMU
Textbook Distribution                  BMU
School Library List/Selection          ICD
School Library Acquisition             BMU
Science Curriculum/Equipment Design    ICD/SEDU, TRCs
Teacher Training Plans and
Implementation                       Department of Teacher Education
ObJective 3:   Strengthening Mobilization of Non-Government Resources
School Maintenance Policy/Training     MOE/DPL
School Building Designs/Standards      MOE School Construction Unit
Primary School Selection               PCT, MLG, MOEIDPE
Secondary School/DETF Selection        PCT, NETF, MOE/DSE
Primary School Rehabilitation          DEO, MLG District Executive
Director, MOE School Construction
Unit
Community Secondary School
Assistance Program                   PCT, NETF, Relevant DETF



- 54 -
5.02      The lead agency for the project would be the MOE.  The overall
policy management of the project would be shared by the Permanent
Secretaries of MOE and MLG acting through a joint Steering Committee. The
Steering Committee would oversee the implementation of the project by
meeting at least once every quarter to discuss the progress of the project
and to identify problems and solutions.
5.03      The implementation of the project would be coordinated by a
Project Coordinating Team (PCT) under the executive management of the MOE
Director of Planning. The PCT would be headed by a Project Coordinator
(PC) contracted for the duration of the project. The PC would be directly
answerable to the MOE Director of Planning, would be responsible for the
overall supervision and control of the day-to-day progress of project
implementation. The PC would be assisted in his task by two Deputy Project
Coordinators (one from MOE and one from MLG) each one heading a sub-Project
Team, one within MOE (PCT/MOE) and one within MLG (PCT/MLG). The PC, the
two Deputy PCs, a Project Accountant, and an Information Officer would
constitute the Project Secretariat serviced by its own secretary and filing
clerk. The specific elements of the project falling within the province of
the MOE would be coordinated by the PCT/MOE consisting of at least eight
members, each a key representative from the various units/offices involved
in specific elements of the project. The PCT/MLG would comprise at least
three members similarly representing units responsible for project elements
falling within the province of the MLG. All implementing units would make
use of existing staff to execute project activities, complemented in some
cases with locally recruited specialists. The key staff of the PCT have
bee appointed, and the PCT is operational.
5.04      Within their own areas of responsibility, the PCT/MOE and PCT/MLG
would each be accountable for: (a) the detailed planning of each phase of
the project and modification of the overall targets, when and if indicated
by practical exigencies which may appear as the project unfolds; (b) the
coordinated and logical development of the various elements of the project;
(c) the final selection of the primary schools to be rehabilitated and the
secondary schools to be assisted, in accordance with the criteria described
in Annexes 20 and 23; (d) the management of all project funds and their
disbursement through the channels employed in the project; (e) the annual
evaluation and report on the progress of the project; and (f) updating the
list of '-:al experts and presenting reports to IDA on the progress of
experts a. part of the annual report of activities.
5.05      In addition to the PCT, other coordinating mechanisms would be
created or reinforced under the project, in order to improve coordination
in the implementation of specific components. These would include: (a) the
BMU located within the MOE/DPL (para 3.21) to manage the procurement and
implementation of all textbook publishing, printing and delivery services;
(b) the SEDU set up within ICD (para 3.14) to develop low-cost school
equipment; and (c) the NETF (para 3.43) to oversee the implementation and
manage the funds for the community secondary school assistance program.
5.06      Responsibility for the supervision of designs and estimates for
the civil works (primary and secondary schools, TRCs including MANTEP)
under the project would rest with the MOE School Construction Unit.
Designs and for the construction of the new ICD facilities would be



- 55 -
prepared by an architectural/engineering consultant firm selected in
accordance with IDA Guidelines. The procurement of furniture, equipment
and vehicles for the project would be undertaken by the MOE Procurement
Unit (formerly under PPS and now with the PCT), which has acquired ample
experience in this task under previous IDA projects.
5.07     Institution building.  In order to build up a permanent national
capability in planning, managing, implementing and maintaining educational
programs and facilities, the project features an integrated staff
development program comprising training in: (a) school/education management
for about 10,000 head teachers, 500 school inspectors, and 300 district
education and logistics officers (para. 3.07); (b) textbook and science
equipment development and production for ICD, TRC and BMU staff (paras.
3.16, 3.19 and 3.26); (c) library management and maintenance for about 250
library staff of primary and secondary schools (para. 3.36); (d) school
rehabilitation and maintenance techniques for about 300 district
maintenance supervisors (para. 3.39); and (e) project management for PCT
staff (paras. 3.08, 3.40 and 3.41). Although the target group is large,
the program should be viewed in relative terms with the deployment of
technical assistance within three institutional groups (schools, MOEIMLG,
Districts) over a five-year period. The project would engage about 153
staff months of expatriate and 160 staff months of local specialist
services, which are deemed to represent the necessary critical mass to
generate the institutional momentum for the Government to achieve its plans
for the sector. The terms of reference for the specialist services have
been drafted and discussed with the Government. The technical assistance
personnel would not substitute for local specialists, but would work in
integrated teams headed by Tanzanians, and act as catalysts in a process
combining on-the-job training and developing work methodologies and
procedures. It is expected that by the end of project implementation, the
institutions concerned would be largely self-reliant as a dynamic process
of development would have been generated. At negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that the candidates for fellowships would be required
render a minimum of two years of service to the Government in the positions
for which they have been trained, upon completion of their studies.
Details of the technical assistance and training needs are described in
Annex 27.
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
5.08     Implementation Schedule.  Project implementation is expected to
take six years beginning in July 1990.  The project would be completed by
June 30, 1996, and the Credit Account could be closed on December 31, 1996.
The implementation schedule is shown in Annex 24.
5.09     Status of Project Preparation.  The project was formulated on the
basis of the findings of: (a) a UNESCO sector mission which prepared an
extensive report on the financing and management of the sector and on
pedagogical and school infrastructure matters; (b) a Textbook Sector Study
carried out during the second semester of 1988; (c) a project preparation
mission in November 1988; (d) a workshop organized by the MOE in Dar es
Salaam in November 1988 wherein education experts presented papers with



- 56 -
their views on policies and programs of the education sector and received
feedback for improving their proposals; and (e) a Bank pre-appraisal
mission in February 1989 which followed up on project preparation.
5.10     The following actions taken have advanced the status of project
preparation and would enable implementation to proceed expeditiouslys
(a) Since 1988, printing contracts for primary textbooks have been
awarded competitively allowing prequalified private printers to
participate. This process, strongly supported by SIDA which is
financing the primary school textbook component, would continue
to be rigorously applied under the project.
tb) Manuscripts for textbooks and teachers guides in Standards II-VII
English, science and mathematics subjects have been prepared by
the ICD and would be ready for printing in early 1990. Detailed
lists of equipment and materials to be provided to TRCs and
schools under the science component have also been prepared.
(c) Over the past five years, DETFs have acquired much experience and
success in operating secondary schools. Community interest in
financing the development of private schools is expected to grow
with the establishment of the NETF. Criteria have been agreed
with the Government for selecting DETF schools to be assisted and
for determining the level of matching NETF resources. Terms of
reference have been finalized for a two-person NORAD financed
consultancy to do the detailed design of the arrangements for the
NETF.
(d) Implementation of a primary school rehabilitation program under
Credit 1056-TA has provided some REOs, DEOs and DEDs ample
experience in mobilizing communities and NGOs to rehabilitate and
maintain schools, such that the program can be launched on a wider
scale. Criteria for selecting primary schools to be rehabilitated
under the project have been agreed with the Government.
(e) The MOE Permanent Secretary has initiated a systematic review of
the education strategy wi:h the MOE directors to establish
consensus. A team of senior MOE officials and curriculum experts
have submitted to the Permanent Secretary a report on the relevant
applications under the project in Tanzania, of the findings of
their observation tour (financed with Credit 1056-TA funds) of
science teaching and textbook development practices in neighboring
African countries.
(f) The PCT is operational. The MOE has scheduled to hold in May
1990, a project launch workshop attended by Government staff
involved in the project as well as representatives of IDA, the
donors and other agencies involved.



- 57 -
C. NONITORING, REPORTING AND EVALUATION
5.11     Project monitoring would be the responsibility of the Project
Coordinator and the PCT. Implementation monitoring would assess the
financial and physical rrogress of the various components, as well as the
progress in implementing the policy measures supported by the project, with
the most meaningful and practical indicators selected for each component.
These indicators are outlined in the project implementation schedule (Annex
24). The PC? would prepare draft formats for monitoring implementation.
These formats would be finalized after close consultation with the
implementing agencies and with IDA. The monitoring instruments would be
introduced in a project launch workshop organized by the PCT at the outset
of the project, and participated in by all agencies involved in the project
(MOE departmental units, MLG, NETF, MOF, Donors, etc.). Utilizing these
forms, the implementing agencies would provide data to the Project
Coordinator for inclusion in the consolidated semestral progress reports.
Semestral reports would then be used in preparing a comprehensive annual
progress report and an annual work plan for the following year. A final
Project Completion Report on the implementation experience and project
outcomes would be prepared by the PCT and submitted to IDA within six
months of the Credit Closing Date.
5.12     Reviews.  The Government, IDA and other external agencies
supporting the project would convene joint annual implementation reviews
(in February/March), and a major mid-term review (in May 1992) in addition
to normal supervision. These reviews would provide an opportunity to: (a)
assess performance on the implementation of the various project components;
(b) modify project implementation targets and strategies; and (c) prepare
future work programs and budget. The annual and mid-term reviews would be
chaired by the MOE Permanent Secretary, and attended by representatives of
the MOF, the MLG, participating donors, and the agencies responsible for
implementing the various project components (ICD, NETF, NGOs, etc.). The
semestral progress reports would be consolidated by the PCT within two
weeks, reviewed by the joint Steering Committee within four weeks, and
forwarded to IDA within eight weeks of the end of the semester. The MOE
would submit to IDA by February 15 of each year the annual work plan for
the following fiscal year, and by September 30 the annual progress report
of the previous fiscal year.



- 58 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01     Benefits.  The proposed project is a major contribution to the
Government's PSAP and would assist the Government initiate a process of
rehabilitation, reform and strengthening of the education sector. The
project supports the economic reform program in Tanzania through the
development of the country's human resource base during the process of
economic adjustment.
6.02     Through a strong focus on strengthening institutional capacity to
plan, manage and finance the delivery of educational services, the project
will assist the Government to undertake the much needed rehabilitation and
reforms in the education sector, such as improving access to educational
services in disadvantaged areas of the country, upgrading educational
quality by improving the teaching and quality of science courses,
establishing efficient systems for producing and distributing relevant
textbooks, and improving long-term sustainability and efficiency. The
project is a major contribution to the Government's PSAP and to the
development of Tanzania's human resource base: about 10,000 primary school
lieadmasters, 500 school inspectors and about 300 district and regional
education officers would be trained in classroom management and school
administration; the data collection, analysis and research capability of
the MOE and the University of Dar es Salaam would be broadened; and about
300 district personnel would be trained in school maintenance and
rehabilitation techniques and mobilized to train their counterparts in
rural communities. There would be an increase in the use of the private
sector: through the opening of private marketing channels for textbook
production and distribution; for provision of educational services; and for
the expansion and maintenance of educational facilities. This would in
turn result in increased efficiency in the management of schools and
encourage efficiency in the use of government resources.
6.03     Communities will benefit from the project in terms of improved
quality of and access to educational services.  About 200,000 primary and
16,000 secondary students would have use of better classrooms and a
physical environment more conducive to the learning process. About 12
million suitable textbooks produced and distributed under the project will
serve approximately four times the current number of primary and secondary
students enjoying access to textbooks. Students, teachers and the
community at large would have access to other books as well, with the
establishment of about 100 pilot primary school libraries in remote rural
areas, and with the improvement of library facilities in about 150
secondary schools, 40 teacher training colleges and the University.
Finally, with the qualitative improvements in curriculum, teaching
materials and programs supported by the project, primary and secondary
school graduates would be better prepared to perform, handle the basic
mathematical and scientific concepts needed in daily life, join a
modernizing and expanding labor market, and contribute productively to the
economy.
6.04     Risks.  The lessons learned from the implementation of the
previous IDA-financed education projects as well as from the exchange of
experiences and ideas between IDA and other donors, Tanzanian officials,



- 59 -
educators and NGOs have been incorporated into the design of the project to
minimize the risks. There are two main risks:
(a) First, the capacity deficiencies of the implementing institutions
could hamper the progress of the project. This risk is being
addressed through (i) a technical assistance component carefully
designed to strengthen management capacity, and (ii) through the
proposed annual and mid-term reviews of project performance.
(b) The second risk is that unanticipated changes in Governmental
policies or the political scene might affect the pace and
direction of the reform and revitalization of the sector. To
mitigate this risk, extensive efforts were made during preparation
of the project to build a broad consensus among Tanzanians
involved in education on the issues, priorities, and appropriate
next steps. Seminars and meetings were held at which leading
authorities within and outside Government presenwd their views
and reached shared understandings of what needs to be done.
Finally, the annual- and mid-term reviews of the project would
provide the forum and mechanisms for ensuring that the project can
be adjusted to changes in the economic and policy environment.



- 60 -
VII. AGRIENENTS REA&CHD AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) By December 31. 1991, the Government will submit to IDA the
proposed terms of reference for the studies to be undertaken under
the project (para. 3.11).
(b) By June 30, 1991, the Government will submit to IDA a proposed
revision to the level of teachers' salaries (para. 3.11d).
(c) Beginning fiscal year 1991, half of the increase in Government
revenues resulting from measures to reduce the gap between the
school fees paid by students in Government secondary schools and
those paid by students in community schools, will be retained by
the schools themselves, to be used for school maintenance and/or
needs-based scholarships for students (para. 3.11d).
*d) The timetable for the implementation of the unified science
program (para. 3.18). In particular, the Government will:
ti)   by March 31, 1991, prepare and discuss with IDA a schedule
for improving the teaching of science in secondary schools;
(ii) by the beginning of school year 1992, introduce a unified
science syllabus for the first two years of secondary
education, in selected schools on a pilot basis; and
(iii) by the school year 1994, incorporate the results of the
evaluation of the pilot program into an improved science
syllabus to be introduced nationally in accordance with a
plan of action agreed wth IDA.
Ce) Contracts for the publication, printing and distribution of
textbooks will be awarded through a competitive bidding process
(para. 3.22a).
(f) By June 30, 1991, the Government will publicly announce that by
that date, complementary private marketing channels will be
allowed to open and operate to facilitate purchases of additional
textbooks by individuals (para. 3.22b).
(g) By March 31 of each year, the Government will discuss and agree
with IDA on the adequate funds allocated annually to the MOE for
textbook development, field-testing, and teacher orientation
(para. 3.22c).
(h) By January 1, 1993, the Government will adopt improved timetables
for primary and secondary schools, integrating related subject
areas and optimizing teaching in the general academic subjects
supported by the new textbook series (para. 3.22d).



- 61 -
(i) Beginning fiscal year 1991, the Government will gradually increase
its annual budgetary allocation for the minimum primary textbook
package, in accordance with a plan of action agreed with IDA
during the annual project implementation reviews (para. 3.27).
(j) By December 31, 1991, the Government will furnish IDA for its
review and comments, a plan of action for establishing an
appropriate financing mechanism to ensure the provision of primary
textbooks after the project (para. 3.27).
(k) By June 30, 1991, the NETF will be formally established and its
Board, Secretariat and Technical Unit appointed (para. 3.43).
(1) By March 31 of each year, the Government will agree with IDA on
the adequate budgetary provision to support the project during the
subsequent financial year (para. 4.13).
7.02     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) The personnel of district-level SMARTS trained under the project
will be required to render at least two years of service to their
districts (para. 3.39a).
(b) The use of funds allocated to the districts and earmarked for
primary textbooks (para. 3.27), and the materials and resources
provided under the project for the primary school rehabilitation
program will be strictly accounted for and properly utilized
(para. 3.40).
(c) The academic performance of community schools assisted under the
project and their compliance with MOE standards will be closely
monitored in accordance with agreed performance indicators
(para. 3.46).
(d) The recipients of fellowships under the project will be required
to render a minimum of two years of service to the Government in
the positions for which they have been trained, upon completion of
their studies (para. 5.07).
7.03     The institutional arrangements for implementing the project have
been reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory (Chapter V and Annex 12).
7.04     Recommendation.  With the above assurances, the proposed project
forms a suitable basis for an IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 29.0 million
(US$38.3 million equivalent) to the United Republic of Tanzania, at
standard terms, with a 40-year maturity.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ISSUES CONSIDERED DURING PROJECT PREPARATION
UtermtrmLtrg,nl                                                                  T_ea    r    cch
baLlix  As      Shaikr E"Lg.mmv E Ciei sff  z £ioaainal  P,;gs_m           Priam"  822uM%"  7Aiiars           a. i Tans
NSU THE S1DI 13 SIClt
1.  stremm god aeumelas (m  ;e- Primary, 7 peeve.
loptr eamdar,. 2 yers- uPPr       Idry. 2 yeere' _
0veratl         yero; verSe. tochlcal/vocatilo
_ I1-." v tt
1.1  to Secodary: are te rfwlar and
alternative eyeteam la the irigt
reletoaeuip e _dat ather?
1.2  1t Vocational/tochaich * are ther te
may/too fern etrme   Are thu  ampeibloT? 
2.    *ecmi year and t  ec     dew                                                                                                     * 0                              * 
2.1  Tea dirtta Ilame
2.2  0. he, ert _adea  at aptrapriat *taae!
$o.a. idarg  for _a~leo 1ar sOd
me peal ti mof  gricltm ll
activity  r of frcl mct __ chr)?
2.1      the bra M1   simad (e.g..to                                                                                            *        * I
h.Cwe ele codtaty.)? d 1al=;
8.  S        of _abjcta  lo ttabl o berl                                                                                               *          *
4.  ts  m.Jeoe? ki fer he. mcI _ti  ea.                                                                                                 *         *
4.1  Too m/e  little of  dott lfe   re_ e                                                                
(e.o.n  arlatnre.he. 1 eosIl)
(i.e               I. _i  bJpct?  Ad hrat     ) io
o.S Tee mdi rote          riaieomd mtifle 
vs. a       ei _ a-    gai   hltla_
7.  W II:  *re tert  fm/toe ota    ti r                                                                                                *         * °* *°
toe  high ee                le ?  o                                                                                                            e
6.2  *ate  l righ-e..  o f fully trird                                                                                          *         9                 
.or l        teachersd te.ge.  Cortif ded
e. aamri  .8?
7.  buliti:  Im prficle  are tdere?                                                                                                    *          9   
7.1  Shoud are/lo  be d oe he epou/ed out                                                                                       *         *
toeier?           '                                                                                                                                                             OQ' ;   
.2  Shld rewuirameat. for proutIon he chnged                                                        0S                                 B
r.S  Shoud th  cadre estrocture he cge _D
o.g . to have movic,e ed moter teach_r cadre.?
D   _re   ~il"  1T        d allocS ti  ie Oae.                                                                                                                                               0
g          at.lanniag. regeercl. eveluatize. lacitutimel * mnd orgoiatirl al _



2                                                  LEVI~~~~~ELS
~~~~~oi    Ff.c;*                   Efficienc    Finacn    Hno9n             Pitz    ,2 ds            Universt
S.   Training of teachers (pro-oarvice wedin-service)
0.1   Teacher training insitltto":  are
thre too 0 _a/t  faot  Arp  they
producing too sany/too f1  teachers?
0.2   Are the  offering the risht programs/
cores" --  .g., tao long or oo ahort?
Vith contnt that I at o auch/too I Itti..
too caepl*v/to sImple, epropriate/
Inappropiate fw er    t teach-r, needt
Should pedegical  athoda courso   be
tria_d dows or dropped?  O"ee th
sde  cet ed to be etrn_teed
8.S    Oae  the selection proceas for nea
enXtrte  ree  reva_Inrt
.   Salaries of tahelrl are tey too higbl  or teo low?                                                                                            *          *           e          *         o
9.1   Civen the contiouln  ned for *lfiec
sueterity, con eallee be lncread                                                                         @
in the yeer e hedt Sf  e  by hog sch
i  hs oon   Alternotively   - It llely
that  saelies wil be driv n doesnerd?
9.2   M.  aerlope  a the  ned  to iwmrove                                                                                 * 
Inentives to teachers?  Conaidering
this  nd the proapects for increasin
*slarlee. what actions ore reniredt
9.8   What la 1he* sitution In non-salary                                                                                 *               0
bensfito (e.g.. hoae,in.  ;tOa for
teacher, to eit Poe" #       Ir hoew
district, etc.)?
DeUtS  IISIREUlCMIAL. VTIAT        AM  TEa.02n
10.  Tetbookls (end teachers' gud) g                                                                                 **                                      *
10.1  Qusanttyy  how good/bad Is the book/                                                                                               0         0
pUpil rato?  Hs ouch can It be
iVprowed and by whent
10.2  Quality:  how adeqeste/lnsde  ate r              0
the both*. conaider;ng both  t) their
cont   d (i) duraility
1O.8  DOeD the boh  production prceae need                                                                 *                    *                   * 
cbn; eng,h    gie--*e   te                0
improve thea  trit" n f _rrrPtah
putliehief.f the pritling, andortheI
dietribat7eon  rrangamte
11.  Sasrciae bahes, chslbboerdc. chalk, teaching aide                                                               0                            0          *
11.1 - 11.0  "me jamsu. ae  for t athoe                                                                     *                            * 
12.  Sehol libraries                                              
t2*1  Civen ho  littla thre  a no h"   ouh_
can and ohould b  doan,  wad at hat pacoe?                                                                                                              0 
13.  DIstc  education                                                    0
18.1  Con and ohmId   er- be dorn  to use radio
o an Instructional aid?   f so  hat. hot                                                                                                                 W *
much, Ind hoW sont
13.2    f more i to be done, what supporting                                                                                                                                                      M 00
*tepo need to be      r akento atrengthen th                                                                                                    
preparation ef good oalIty radio proarast
Ando  strengthen brodeda  cab; II ty?
13.S  Sio         eet ione for tope/cooeette options?                                                                                                                                             a
I.,



Oua w  ACc  E            Eff;et new  Efficincy  Fina   inl Hns          2 aPrijrx  SImzrj Univer ity Tratntno
7SHE LEoANO B,flMoo.  Pct1?Tm AN    R E
14.  Phintenene.: ho  con to be Iroedw*?                                                                                       0
affordable, dW roa laialc Ubt should
_Ittz- - p Id* and chat   Id  gveronent do?
Ae deen dotnd-rd. opproprate%/eonoml cel?
1.  Desks.,  uipoent. *tc.: *;oler qwootione as for
nmm coetetruction.                                                                                           *0 
LO 1AW OF DStRUlN   O(Mbther  _Mg. or Eol lst?)
1?.  For techlin  basic et    (e.g., reading)
WI.  For advncd aubj eto  (espcielly science)                                                                                                                                   *          *
1t.  Overall structure: Wo  I ted  n                                                                  *                                        *         *
and for wht purpooe (* g   prlery leeveros
U0  1-ll; "A" lvlo) irr cbho.*" no de?
19.1  v.rly oriented tord U.K. stem?                                                                             *                        *
20.  Teetd  hm?
20.1  Content of tbets:  sure ompheol
needd an rewsoing  kleta. Io on
rreardweing esorpled fat?'3
20.         t1 Toot:  More  o of mIltipo I a
20.8 0grae  of difficultpy  too few paeo now 4e
21.  The totbn  Infrastructure  i a   who donogo._
grades. on proogooe the esee)4_
21. 1  Sti l teo depdent oa *ternol                                                                                                    * 
oorco (Cobrldge).  Con the locelisatlon
proce  be  opdod up?
22.  Esm  r_auto ned to be uood more nd  or                                               *                                                    * 
effectively  me inforetio  tOat con help in
mproving te education syot..
22.1     rnl eo  and fo4dbecl to rewuired
for education  edmnitetratore
23.  The role snd fwction of ineector.:  the
dhuld be  mr  Mortive,  rovide more
ut denco a,     ic to  t.ecLre -- and
de * t0    holing upC on  hol
24.  t*Aeor: are mre inepector/ouprv more
neoded?  Power?                                                                                              *0@
REPETIT   A   amaP0Tr POLICTf NO PRACrIC
2S.  Too hhmw?  flaw mfr con they be reducd?*
And ow   Shold eutootic proaution be edopted                                                                                                                                                     (J 0
in lor primry?                                                                                                                                                                                   to to
2b   Coot  pcetloe of the crrent prctice.  And                                                                                                                                                             X
potncl effiteoncy gain. froe  reducing repetition                                                                                                                                                   W
end dropout. 
n4 4_t                                                                                                                                           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It
"f



|   l       a         a           ] iternafSSU¶aernai                                       L           k.
27.  Ttio to".  Old thy be raled/loerd?                              *       *                                                            *         *
20.  Soul fee.  Shold they be raled/lecered?
29.  tie  ace   (to helpe tdent cove fee)   t hat* 
i- feeeible ad appropriaXte
80. fon-fee optiow.  co ity  7ontribti." and local                                                                                        *         *
gOv>r-n t lei...  Shoud  w/ lo ve  doe
nUD=s IR   NRATIm  SIIE
1.  Should nd can the education       t be raieed/
eef~~~~~bl f                                                       *            *tel *OSPttX
loered? te education'a Ohare o t.tal public
spenwing ap   raolaporaa
82.  $hould te allocation af the edation buWdgt b                                                              0                          *         *                      *        **
Aa'_|tmrv m"tt bWzty c; .lv*rOi%v
r   ratatazt *a we*ttowmlt niralt
B_etwe    Amlcr  par and  aecond arsavte r t ti
recurreat nd VW valopanrt
83.  Ar. alI planned exp.ndit*ore  rel tatic -- i.e.,                                                                                      *        *                      *         *
ulJd abpor only vbl, affordable. end
Ouet ine:bl M n,tiaT,vee? ftve the re'urrnt
coot le licatloe" of new inveeteente been
adeatly taken into accont?  if not, what
=11dat;r one are reqirdted
CoCr RrM&=            8*7SFcENe4     _    i
84.  UtilIa;tion of tf ailitie:  ehoid more be done
-- e.gt., thtou,h oultiple  hiftt or other _eewree                                                        0                                                                    0
to it,cre t.iizati"on
84.1  Doubla-ahfte or esaggered te. st
econdary?
8.  Boarding and _e1ls for etudeata:  should governeAnt
V* foatsr(lotee faot to shift thee Coate froe the
public budget to etudeoto *ae ilie or local
authori ties?
8S.1  Privatize boerding and catering at the
Uaivereity?
8.  Won-tbaching ateffi  are thire too wnay?  Should
eno  be rtrenachod or eent back to teehing?
87.  Are the  other "ea  of r*euine coet.?   f o**                                                                                        *         *.
what ehwuld be dwon?
8e.  As. tOhar  legort diap;marite bacree re;on          *                   * *
of the country?
a.  Stould ;ore(lee  be doe abou urban/rural                             *                                                                * 
40.  Ar. i_mu  reloating to feemle participation                                                                                           _                               -                       W
plIng enough *attention?  if npro Should be 
don  * w   are *the opton. and which are beet?
0



luajitk  LSI  knie    c1A1  ftfginge;nj 2                                     Pri.rz  Secondar  ti nisgaitv
4S.  to the Nini ery  effectively orgos<ed? 
PrrIt I  gy nd ede tely steffed^  A,*
i. fuoct      -ae ad obJective. on tereet
42.  so" for tWe  oetitote of Cerrirclcv   O.eVlapet
and other mtatit"tione
43. Doe   nted to be done to improve ptannia0 
44.   nd  o improv  remech *nd evaluationT
45,  Abd fiorecigl      nttggemnt?
nEIUATUI  MI  ;IF BE sNrfson4 AND
46. meegwoel sod dietfrict education euthoritlest on
tiedl,?  lnet. whet a& needed? Now con It be
achieved?
47.  School oriocale:eg         eetiooe. ie more/
differeot trenilne required?
46.  Other eelani-tratore (e.g. *et the univerelty*                                                                                                                          *          *
voatiouel/tech"ical ioetitutooe. ecc.): diteto
LIM WM Ie LAB UWMr
44.Xe I          l*   in  one to determine the *etent to
which the e ducatinitroiin/kille/knowladg  tb t                                                                                                  0                                 _
etedgnte get it oht _mplore  are lono  or?
50.  la thl Mort of intor_tieon being uged effectively
to chmno the mducttion/twginio.g  system 'io
opproppote dior tioNst
1h
%A



- 67 -                      ANhX2
Page I of 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Project Preparation Documents
Doc. No.                     Document Title
PD-01   Education in Tanzania.
Key Issues and Proposals for Remedial Action, May 1988
PD-02   Tanzania, Book Subsector Study, Textbook Section, November 1988
PD-03   Draft Report on Libraries and Information Provision in Tanzania
PD-04   Infrastructural and Operational Needs of the ICD
PD-OS   Education Rehabilitation Project, Teacher Resource Centres
Equipment Production and Science Curriculum Reform, Nov 1988
PD-06   Research on Education Carried Out in Tanzania and
Proposal of Two Research Projects, Sept/Oct 1988
PD-07   Mufindi Education Trust, A self-Help Project of Agrobased Education
for Self-Reliance, Donor Request for Building Materials
PD-08   General Education in Tanzania,
Major Trends, Constraints and Future Prospects, January 1899
PD-09   General Education in Tanzania, December 1988
PD-10   Financing Education in Tanzania, Strategies During the
Economic Recovery Programme Period, September 1988
PD-l1  Management and Administration of Education in Tanzania, January 1989
PD-12   Critical Issues and Problems in
School Curriculum in Tanzania, January 1989
PD-13   Trends and Needs in Teacher Education in Tanzania:
The Post Colonial Period, January 1989
PD-14   Primary and Secondary Education
Issue of Quality: Training of Teachers, September 1988
PD-15   The Role of Supplementary Reading Materials and Library Services
in the Education Sector in Tanzania, November 1988
PD-16   Distance Teaching for School Equivalency in Tanzania, Jan/Feb 1989
PD-17   Science and Technology at Post Secondary Level in Tanzania:
The Need for Revitalization and Expansion, January 1989
PD-18   Proposals Financing of Technical and Vocational
Education and Training in Tanzania, February 1989
PD-18   Vocational Training in Tanzania: Its Contribution to National
Development - Proposal for Support
PD-19   Joint Proposal for Publishing Development and Training in Tanzania



- 68 -
AMN=X 2
Page 2 of 2
Education Sector Documents
Doc. No.                     Document Title
SD-O1   Sector Review, The Financing of Education in Tanzania, May 1988
SD-02   Educational System in Tanzania Towards the Year 2000
SD-03   Basic Facts about Education in Tanzania
SD-04   Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania (BEST) 1981 - 1985
SD-05   Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania (BEST) 1982 - 1986
SD-06   Education Statistics - 1987
SD-07   Education in Tanzania - Government Expenditure 1983 - 1987
SD-08   The Ministry of Education Combined Annual Report
for the Years 1976-1981
SD-09   Emergency Social Action Programme - July 1989 - June 1992
SD-10   Plan Operations and Plans of Action 1987 - 1991
SD-ll   Development of Education: Opportunities for External Financing
SD-12   RUDET, A Self-help Agrobased Education Development Project
SD-13   Factors Affecting School Buildings Construction and Maintenance
at Primary Level in Tanzania,
A Case Study of Three Regions, July 1988
SD-14   Review of School Maintenance Project in Tanzania - Sept. 1988
SD-15   Construction Guidelines for Primary Schools in Tanzania
SD-16   Study on School Construction
SD-17   Primary School Level in Tanzania
SD-18   Primary Education in Tanzania
SD-19   Education and Vocational Training
SD-20   Education and Vocational Training - 1987
SD-21   Seminar on Quality of Primary School Textbooks in Tanzania
SD-22   Tanzania Publishing Support - April 1988
SD-23   Background Documents for SIDA Annual Review 1988
SD-24   Management Development in Tanzania
SD-25   Consultancy to the Inspectorate by SIDA



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION IN TANZANIA
LEVW OF ED"TI01
EiE                       (O   6 LnS~dJ  ENagbi    Sm(4   I      4
TodvIm Tmfn
4 Yael 89,ocqw    2 Ytam  8e       .1 1 y
?Yam                    Edumdw:       CHI-Di~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nE~~to
F| F~~~~~*IIIDb    6 _ 0 m 'av                       Ad4wd Leve                 Edutw
-3!$       bes. i*7 -13ff4          Yr G-ildw        TD    NlbA       
Tfflw Ttini      TeeWrO DOM 
~~_V&TeddiB_w_~~~eahwTmlf
. - _ . w . .. , - . . , w . . .
|_   __  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _             ._            _ __  _ _    ___ __  ___ =   _____       I!
L ~~~~~~~~= E  EO 
814             Stag.                  n                                D



- 70 -
ARM= 4
Page I of 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATLON PROJECT
TANZANIA EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
ENROLMENT IN PIJBUC SCHOOL
BY LEVEL GRADE AND SEX
1961.1971 & 1988
4IWl  9'I 11|                                                        1q41  1071 tIm
UNWERSIT                       mlJ02,7                                                                    is ' w                           14.
IstYEAR                                                                                                                                    141    ,
SECONDARY:FORlMS                   1    27                                                            Zs I'm  4J29                         UJ0 "40
5                             174    - 1174 277                                                       27  277  '416
007 tO75274 7I21                                                      412 1170  U107                      a           U
5                     6~~~~~~~~~~fSX   $SIM  IS4                                             US I'"?T UW2                         107         7
| 2                           72S5 U S42b | 2514S 0   1109 2197 0400                                                                    I17t37l 47 300
I   _  _                g~~~~~~~~~794  SSS4j 2%S7                                                   16 129 "iOSt 57i 1465 i j21401
|pR"AR  PANIDARDS                                           NU     R                                                                               _ S
=                                                                                _                        ==                   L  b6025  21 T1 500
I V        -                    7699      S         tt5                                                                          _        5515S2  I-5
to            z                   _                        65tS                                                                      712t_1
-7                    72773    48611      1                                       284US       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~57S#l  J
11 2S0 0  *51t                     too   Slt   5 0                       lIe      lie        s  S00
PRNIY  Of  )MCAllON                         M               NUNBMR  (IN THOUSAMS)                  EA
SECTORA   Pl.ANNING DIEPARrIN               MIS                                                     E A



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
TABLE 1: Distribution of Secondary Schools by Relon
----1980-             -------198------    -----1988-6 --
Pub-  Pri-                    Pub-  Pri-                    Pub-  Pri-
Renton      tic    vate  Total    U        Ilc   vat.  Total    %         lie   vote  Total
ARUSHA        8     6         9   6.6        4      6      12    6.9        6    14      19
oSm           8     8        11   7.1       12      6      18    8.8       11   10       21
DODOMA        5     1         6   8.9        5      8       8    8.3        5?    4
9?
IRINGA        6     2         8   6.2        7      9      16    7.8        9    19      26
KAGERA        5     5        10   B.6        5      9      14    6.9        6    13      19
KIGOMA        1     2         8   1.9        1      2       8    1.5        2     2       4
KILIMANJARO   9    24       38  21.4         9    29       38   18.6       10   62       82
LNDI          1     2         8   1.9        1      2       a    1.5        2     2       4
iRA           8     8         6   8.9        4      a       7    8.4        6     8       9
MBEYA         4     1         5   8.2        4      6      10    4.9        6    14      20
MOROGORO      6     6        12   7.8        8      8      16    7.6       11     8      19
MTWARA        5     0         5   3.2        6      0       6    2.5        6     -       6
MWANZA        6     2         8   5.2        6      4      10    4.9        8     7      15
COAST         4     0         4   2.6        6      0       6    2.9        6     -       6
RUKWA         1     1         2   1.8        1      1       2    1.0        4     2       8
RUVtMA        8     2         5   3.2        4      8       7    8.4        6     4      10
SHINYANQA     2     2         4   2.6        2      2       4    2.0        8     6      11
SINOIDA       2     2         4   2.6        8      8       6    2.9        2?    3       S?
TABORA        4     8         7   4.5        5      8       8    8.8        5     7       12
TANGA         5     4         9   5.6        5      6      11    5.4        8     8       18
TOTAL        u     7r       In  100.0       U7   T        Ng  1oo.o       mT   To       la
SOURCE: MWE Takwimu za Elimu 1980 pp. 89-45
WINE Private School Registration Department (1986).
The 1986 total for pubilc schools Includes 10 secondary facilities attached to military
camps.
TABLE 2: Enrollmnt, by Type of Public Divresified Secondary School
(1985)
------1985 (Forms I - VI)-----           No. of Schools
Sublect Bias          Girls         B             Total         -----Biases----
One        TWo
Technical (Indust)       722         8,86          4,288          7         -
Agricultural           8,672        12,646        16,217         34         7
Commercitl             6,638         7,601       18,284         26          3
HoAMs Econoe           1.720            27         1,747          5
Sub-total    11,647       23,989        85,586         72         10
Non-Vocationalized  2?518           4.428         B899           8-
Grand Total           14,160        28,862        42,626         76



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
TABLE 3: Transition Rates 1980/81-1988/87
TRANSITION
RATES              1980/81        1981/82       1984/86        1986/88       1986/8?
I-II       PR         94.66          91.95         68.39          91.9        91.3
RR          3.17           3.42          2.60           2.9         4.4
DR          2.17           4.63          9.11           5.2         4 '
II-III      PR         96.77          93.19         93.84          96.7        9£
RR          2.61           2.80          1.98           2.5         8.7
DR          1.72           4.01          4.20           1.4         4.3
III-IV       PR         94.28          94.05         94.37          96.7        92.0
RR          1.65           2.20          1.44           1.7         3.3
DR          4.07           3.76          4.19           2.6         1.1
IV-V        PR         96.92          92.28         94.22          96.3        88.6
RR          0.24           0.12          0.20           0.4        19.6
DR          2.84           7.60          5.58           4.3        11.9
VI-VII      PR         94.27          94.95          86.34         97.2        95.8
RR          0.01           0.01          0.01           0.0         0.1
DR          5.72           5.04         18.86           2.8         4.3
NOTE:        PR=Promotion Rate   RR=Repetition Rate   DR=Dropout Rate
TABLE 4:  Summary on Public Institutions Education
(1983-1987)
LEVEL INCREASE                             1983           1987               DIFFERENCE
PRIMARY                    3653144       3167200         -395944          -11.1
-Std I--VII
Std. I                     542557        548831            6074            1.1
Std. VII                   463234        388831          -74608          -18.1
No. of Schools              10015         10403             388            3.9
No. of streams              91283         89013           -2270           -2.5
Teaching Staff              89819         95503            5684            8.3
SECOFDARY
r0orm` I-VI                39737          45821           6084           15.3
Form I                       9286         11628            2341           25.2
Form IV                      8513          9162             649            7.8
Form V                       2088          2313             245           11.8
Form VI                      2114          2322             208            9.8
Form I-IV                   35655         41186            5631           15.8
Form V-VI                    4182          4635             453           10.8
No. of Schools                 8s           103              18           21.2
No. of Streams               1203          1343             140           11.8
Total Teaching Staff         2307          3185             878           38.1
TEACHER EDUCATION                                             %
Total Enrollment            14886         11667           -3219          -21.6
Total Intake                 4867          4475            -192           -4.1
Finalists                    9089          5482           -3607          -39.7
Total Teaching Staff          881          1023             182           18.8
No. of TTC                     39            40               1            2.8
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Total Enrollment             1427          1676             248           17.4
Total Intake                  625           634             109           20.8
Total Teoching Staff          189           244              75           44.4
No. of Colleges                 2             3               1            2.6
UNIVERSITY
Total Enrollment             3113           3395            282            9.1
Total Intake                 1071           1147             76            7.1
Total Teaching Staff          963           1087            124           12.9
No. of Universities             1              2              1          100.0



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL TIME-TABLE
Standard    Standard    Standard    Standard
Subjects                          I-II       III-IV       V-VI          VII
Kiswahili                            12           8          7             6
Mathematics                            9          7          7             8
English                               -           6          6             6
Sports and Games                      2           2         2              2
Arts and Crafts                       2           2          2             2
Music                                 2           1          1             1
Science                               -           2         3              3
Health, Science and
Home Economics                      1           2         2              2
Geography                             -           2         2              2
Agriculture                            -          -         2              2
Political Education                   -           1         2              2
History                               -           -         2              2
Religion                              2           2         2              2
Total Periods per Week               30          35        40             40
No. of Periods per Day                6           7         8              8
Self-Reliance Projects,
Hours per Week                    1 hr      2 hrs      3 hrs         3 hrs
Each period is 40 minutes long except in Standard I-II where the duration is
30 minutes.
Source:     The United RepubAic of Tanzania:  Development of Education 1984-
1986, National Report of the United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry
of Education.



-74 -ANE  
Page 1 of 7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION MANAGEMENT AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION ISSUES
1.    INTRODUCTION
This annex summarizes key issues described in a "Book Subsector Study" financed
by ODA and the World Bank in 1988 which attempts an overview of all the factors and sectors
affecting book development in Tanzania.
A number of key assumptions have guided this study. They are:
(a)   that book development is not just an educational and cultural policy issue but
also involves industrial, commercial and service functions which need to be
included in policy making;
(b)   that financial resources in Tanzania are scarce and that the best possible use of
existing funds in the provision of books and consumable stationery is essential;
(c)   that the target level of book trovision and consumable stationery should be
affordable by Government, in the mid-term at least;
(d)   that the quality of books provided should be as high as possible consistent with
(b) and (c) above.
1.1   Curriculum Development and Authorship
(a)   ICD are responsible for interpreting national policy to produce relevant and
effective curricula from pre-school through to secondary and diploma levels.
They are also solely responsible for the preparation of manuscripts (MSS) and
illustrations for all primary school textbooks which are then contracted to
parastatal publishers for publishing.
(b)   New MSS authored by ICD are not pilot tested before being offered for
publication.
(c)   There is little formal evaluation and thus revision of texts.
(d)   There is a lack of planning, programming and monitoring of book authorship and
publication processes which leads to piecemeal publishing of series and serious
book provision gaps.
(e)   ICD are not professionals in either MSS preparation or publishing and have no
regular access to training, professional attachments or upgrading.
(f)   The authorship pool used by ICD is very shallow.  There is no competition among
authors and no choice of alternatives once an authorship team has been
established.
(g)   Although ICD is both the national curriculum development a ency and the source of
textbook NSS, its curriculum development responsibility takes second place to its
authorship role in its contracts with publishers. Thus it takes no role in
overseeing the effectiveness of the publishing process which is the essential
vehicle for delivering the curriculum into the classroom.
(h)   ICD offers MSS to parastatal publishers without seeking a variety of different
presentation/publishing/cost options.
(i)   ICD rarely receives royalty income from the publishers of its material, largely
because of the financial position of the publishers.
(j)   ICD is under-funded to perform its required functions adequately.  It has no
budgetary provision for pilot testing, evaluation or even for ensuring full
national representation on its curriculum panels and authorship teams.



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
(k)   ICD is the victim of arbitrary curriculum changes which damage the financial
viability of publishers and lead ICD into rushed MSS preparation with consequent
errors and low quality design and presentation.
1.2   Primary 'chool Publishing
(a)   In Tanzania both parastatal and private publishing companies are in serious
financial trouble caused by a decrease in textbook and supplementary materials
purchasing  by increased debts  and a long credit period, particularly from
zanania Elima Supplies (TES) 6y a serious shortage of working capital, by very
short credit from printers and raw materials suppliers and by problems in
acquiring raw materials.
(b)   Arbitrary changes in curriculum by the MOE/ICD have created unsalable stocks in
publishing warehouses which cannot be afforded at a time of financial difficulty.
(c)   The serious decline in the financial position of all publishers has led to
decreasing publishing standards and a serious decrease in the number of
publishing professionals employed by the industry.
(d)   Most Tanzanian publishers believe that the policy of distribution confinement has
significantly reduced book sales to the educational system and the number of
sales outlets for books generally and that this has in turn increased their
dependence upon MOE purchases.
(e)   Onl  parastatal publishers have access to the core primary school textbook
markzet.
(f)   No publisher engages in pilot testing, trialling or evaluation of materials.
(g)   There is an urgent need for training and upgrading in publishing skills.
(h)   Lack of working capital is reducing publishing output almost to nil and
preventing ICD MSS from publication.
(i)   The current requirement for finished books to be submitted for approval as
supplementary materials is unnecessarily demanding for publishers and should be
substituted by a requirement to submit specimen chapters, design roughs, synopses
and costs.
1.3   PECO
(a)   ,he Primary Education Coordinating Office (PECO) is responsible for planning,
administering and monitoring the use of gratis SIDA paper in the production of
primary school teachers books, textbooks and stationery. It establishes, in
consultation with MOE, annual print programs and print runs, negotiates print
uotations and supervises manufacturing, and allocates stock to be delivered by
tES to regions and to districts. It carries out an annual textbooks in schools
survey to establish the current supply situation. It is supported by SIDA
financial assistance. However, the operating efficiency of the unit has been
deteriorating and would need increased staff, training and facilities in order to
manage an effective textbook production programs.
(b)   The continued provision of SIDA donated paper is essential for the continued
supply of books and exercise books to Tanzanian schools. Tanzania provides
textbooks at lower prices than most other develo in countries and the ability to
sustain supplies targets within MOE/MLG affordable levels can only be achieved
with continued SIDA support.
(c)   The establishment of a Textbook Revolving Fund is a practical method of creating
a specific financial mechanism to move Tanzania graduallv toward self sufficiency
in paper. It is currently under-funded because TES cannot meet its financial
commitments. This is, in turn, largely the result of non-payment and non-
purchase of allocated stocks by District Councils. Central payment for basic
supplies and subsequent gratis provisicn to Districts would guarantee the
building up of the revolving fund since PECO would be able to pay the Revolving
Fund element of the price direct into the fund without waiting for money to
'trickle down' through the system.



- 76 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
1.4   Printing
(a)   The parastatal companies Printpak and NPC have the plant to handle long run
primary school textbooks in that they have web offset (Coloset) presses which
will fold to suitable sections for book production.  They also have the necessa3
binding plant whether wire-stitched or perfect bound. HowevLr, there are several
companies in the private sector which with the addition of some key items of
plant, could also operate satisfactorily in this area. They are anxious to
compete for this business and 'i. 7ost cases are prepared to introduce the items
of plant needed providing foreign exchange is made available. The sums-needed
would not be large and in almost every case could be funded from the firm's
present resources. Host of these printers are already producing some textbooks
for the HOE.
(b)   Parastatal erinters are all under-financed, largely as a result of a down-turn in
work resulting from decreased government funding to support book production and
as a result of large debts owed by one parastatal to another. This under-
financing has prevented machinery from being replaced, spare parts being brought
in and maintenance standards being kept up. Both have recently benefitted from
large, comprehensive SIDA financed plant and building refits. Private printers
have no large outstanding payments due, and also because their survival depends
on it, have a much more flexible attitude to management, an ability to improvise,
a much greater emphasis on good 'housekeeping' and good maintenance standards.
There is some evidence that the parastatal system itself is imposing the wrong
criteria on management and providing them with excuses for non-success.
(c)   Until recently a shortage of foreign exchange has made it difficult for all
printers to get essential raw materials and spare parts from overseas. In
Tanzania all new printing equipment, virtually all spare parts and much of the
essential raw materials such as film, offset plats, chemicals, etc. need
importation and require adequate foreign exchange allocations. Without the
foreign exchange allocations printers cannot operate to a satisfactory quality or
with satisfactory reliability. Once again the private sector appears to be more
successful at coping with these problems though there is little even they can do
to help with the supply of chemicals and plates.
(d)   Aid agency activity has concentrated on the parastatal printers visits.  Free
machine rehabilitation, the provision of new buildings, and the provision of
additional equipment. However, there are clear signs that the Private sector
makes better use of machinery and equipment and looks after it better. It is
considered important that they should be encouraged and this can only be achieved
by makinq foreign exchange available to them to proceed with their expansion
plans and install the key plant items needed for the efficient production of
textbooks in bulk.
(e)   There are wide variations in price between printers for the same job.  It is
believed that with rather more careful print buying in an industry where private
and parastatal firms operate under similar conditions with similar plant and are
in active competition, that prices will tend to become more consistent and be
brought in line with international figures.
(f)   While Tanzanian printers have complained about paper quality and service in the
past, it seems likely that this problem is being overcome. Prices have also been
criticized. An important factor in this area is the necessity for foreign
exchange to purchase chemicals, films and plates which are not large items
relative to total cost but are crucial to output. Spare parts are undeniable
important and although much can be done (and is being done in the pr-vate sector)
to minimize imports, certain items are vital to continued production and the
necessary foreign exchange must be available quickly if 'down-time' is to be
minimized.
(g)   More forceful and informed print buying will be needed if the market becomes more
competitive in order to discipline suppliers. To this end a code of 'Customs for
the Trade' would be of help and also some standardization of terms of tender.
(h)   Typesetting.  There has been a good deal of investment in this area in both
parastatal and private sectors; one firm is already using an Apple McIntosh
computer feeding a Laserwriter with desk top publishing software. Though no



- 77 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 7
doubt it is sensible for a firm of any size to have its own typesetting system
for convenience, it is doubtful if full utilization of this plant can ever be
achieved. Indeed it is likely that the two best equipped plants could alone
supply the whole of the East African market with capacity to spare. There is
perhaps an export opportunity here if marketing can be organized.
1.5   Paper
(a)   In spite of past complaints of poor paper quality, delivery dates and service,
the position is much improved and paper is being produced substantially to North
American standards, with the provision that certain variations in caliber
moisture content and weight cannot wholly be eliminated without electronic
control equipment which is now standard in Europe and North America. This
equipment is scheduled for 1989/90 but depends on SIDA support.
(b)   Another source of complaint is the difficulty of getting supplies of sheeted
paper - the mills's only sheeter is old, slow and inaccurate, a new sheeter of
adequate capacity and accuracy is scheduled for next year but depends on SIDA
support.
(c)   The mill (in spite of its transport problems and many minor annoyances like
sudden loss of electricity, etc.) is on target with a current annual output of
30 000 tons- its eventual target is full capacity of 60,000 tons by 1991 and the
mill management expect to achieve this. If this is achieved there should be no
problem in providing adequate quantities of paper for education needs.
(d)   In spite of all the foregoing factors which reduce the output of paper for
educational textbooks and stationery, when the tonnage needed is compared with
the total already being produced, it seems that with the advent of the new wagons
which will allow reasonably uninterrupted production there is genuine hope that
the mill will be able to supply all textbook and stationery requirements. There
may however be a question of priorities between the supply of newsprint for
export, the supply of newsprint for Tanzanian newspapers and the on time delivery
of school books stationery paper.
(e)   It is essential that PECO should place paper orders as far ahead as possible and
in the larNest possible quantities in order to ensure safe supply at the best
price. This of course implies a carefuHly worked out and controlled long-term
printing program.
(f)   There is Tanzanian sales tax on paper.  However, all educational supplies are
exempt. The tax has to be paid by the mill as soon as the paper is shipped out
unless it has a clear indication, in good time, that the purpose for which it is
intended is exempt. It is theoretically possible to claim tax back if stock
paper (tax paid) has been eventually used for an exempt purpose. However, the
process of obtaining a tax rebate is very tedious and slow and is sometimes never
received.  Inevitably commercial publishers of school texts and supplementary
materials will be forced to pay tax under the current system whereas PECO paper
and paper supplies to parastatals is more easily accepted as 'tax free' paper.
It is suggested therefore that to remove this barrier to fair competition, some
form of MOE approval of school book printing orders be introduced which either
allows the purchase of specific amounts of paper on a tax free basis or allows
easy rebate for small quantities purchased ex merchant or via printers' own
stocks. The introduction of bonded paper warehouses could solve this problem
without recourse to rebates.
1.6   Distribution to Primary Schools
(a)   A 'partial' confinement policY still operates on primary school distribution
activity. All supplies of SItA subsidized Paper and books moves to regions via
TES and is allocated to districts. Some districts anu the majority of pupils buy
exercise books, pens and pencils from commercial sources in addition (or
sometimes instead of) TES .
(b)   There is no direct supply of textbooks into schools.  All textbooks move via TES.
There has been an attempt by TES to deepen its retail penetration by setting up
book and stationery agencies. Only in one region (Coastal) did the study find
any reported success in the operation.



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 7
(c)   TES currently perform  two broad functions in the distribution chain:
(i)   They move school supplies from the center to the reg ions and provide
warehousing facilities for bulking up and breaking down respectively.
(ii) They are a channel for the movement of funds from District Councils back
to the Revolving Fund, printers, publishers and eventually raw materials
suppliers.
(d)   About 70-80% of TES turnover is dependent upon primary school supplies.  Any move
to substantially remove this business would automatically jeopardize the
existence of TES. TES is more vulnerable to deconfinement policies than other
parastatals involved in the book sector.
(e)   TES has severe financial difficulties, suffers from an acute shortage of workinq
capital, has a very high rate of outstanding debt (and equally a very high level
of debt owed), and has received a number of severe audit reports. It is
currently engaged in cost cutting and management rationalization and has achieved
some success. In 1988, it was back in paper profit after a significant trading
loss in 1987.
(f)   TES business is very volume sensitive.  It maintains a heavy overhead structure
of regional warehouses and staff which automatically send it into loss if volume
to the primary schools falls or District Councils don't pay or purchase. At
present it appears to operate on a loss on most primary school business.
(g)   TES now has adequate transport for country-wide distribution assuming that
supplies are reasonably spread throughout the year. Its transport costs/ton/mile
are reportedly well in line with commercial rates although how much this is due
to aid support is not known.
(h)   TES takes no responsibility for distribution beyond the regional level although
recent studies are considering the feasibility and cost of district level supply.
(i)   Distribution from region to district is constrained by failure of District
Councils to buy allocated stock and lack of district level transport. There
appears to be a storage problem in many districts.
(j)   District to schools storage is under-funded and in need of detailed study.
Perhaps 25% of primary schools may have access problems.
(k)   School level storage is reportedly inadequate.  By chance, perhaps  most schools
visited in the course of the study had basically satisfactory facilities but
proper care of books was lacking and there was generally poor stock recording and
record keeping.
(1)   In most of the difficult access schools visited  there were substantial
quantities of books distributed fee by the MOE (English supplementary readers,
adult education material supplementary books in math geography, etc., bought in
bulk by the MOE). The significant gap was in materiais required to be purchased
by District Councils. The inescapable conclusion is that the distribution
service down to school level can work but is cons.rained by lack of purchasing
power at district levels.
(m)   Ccmmercially produced stationery was available on sale in virtuall  ever
location, no matter how remote.  Mark-up prices were rarely more than   % of Dar
es Salaam prices.
1.7   Book and Stationery Availability in Schools
(a)   The 1987 sample education survey suggested an average textbook availability of 1
book per 13 students averaged out over all subjects.
(b)   Teachers books were supplied in largely unmeasurably small ratios except in
Swahili.
(c)   Exercise books were supplied at an average rate of four exercise books per child
per year.



- 79 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
(d)   The textbook study's own findings on random visits would support these broad
findings while emphasizing the enormous variations in supply even in adjacent
schools.  Existing evidence suggests that shortages in schoois are getting worse
even though provision at the Center may be improving.
1.8   Textbook Effectiveness
(a)   A recent HOE study found general acceptance of the effectiveness of current fCD
textbooks in most subject areas.
(b)   Some problems that need attention are:
(i)     Book life - production specifications and thus book life        have
deteriorated.
(ii)    Illustrations - quality, relevance often suspect.
(iii)   Page design - less proficient as publishing industry       comes under
pressure.
(iv)    Exercise - generally considered to be insufficient       practice material
in the texts.
(v)     Factual errors.
(vi)    Copy-editing - often poor.
(vii)   Language level - poorly adjusted to standard vocabularies   in
Kiswaill.
2.    SECONDARY BOOK PROVISION
2.1   Key Issues
(a)   Secondary textbooks must be approved but there is no restriction on publishers to
submit titles for approval. Most existing textbooks in use are published by
overseas publishers. ICD has a list of 53 secondary textbooks it intends to
publish but so far only 7 have appeared and 5 are in MSS. The Directorate of
tecondary Education has established the Mgumbe Book Project (MBP) with GTZ
assistance to publish secondary science texts.
(b)   The system of approval requires finished copies to be submitted to the
Commissioner of Education. This-is a-restricting factor for all publishers who
have to risk investment in production and text development with no guarantee of
adoption. ICD and MBP are exempt from this risk and are only required to submit
MSS.
(c)   There is no price control on textbooks for the secondary school system.
(d)   There is no confinement policy operating on secondary school book supply.  Sales
go via TES, private booksellers or direct to schools. TES' lack of working
capital means that they are seriously under-stocked.
(e)   There has been almost no foreign exchange allocation for the importation of
foreign textbooks for several years. TES currently has an allocation of Pounds
Sterling 324,000 but does not have the TSh to back the foreign exchange.
(f)   Aid funds have produced occasional bulk supplies of foreign textbooks made
available free of charge via the MOE. The latest purchases of '0' level science
books, under World Bank VIl b have only 4ust reached the schools. A second
consignment of 'A' level science books is under negotiation. These will be
supplied free to government schools. Private schools (the majority) will remain
unprovided for.
(g)   There is an acute book shortage in all secondary schools - both government and
private. This is widely recognized now to be a serious restraint in the quality
of secondary education.



- 80 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
(h)   Secondary education is free.  Each school receives a school materials allocation
which includes money for book purchase. Textbooks have to compete with
stationery, chalk and chemicals for priority.
(i)   The average textbook allocation expenditure in the government secondary schools
visited during the study was TSh 350 (approximately $3.50 per head per year).
(j)   Parental contributions to government secondary schools are increasing but these
are remitted direct to central government and cannot be used to support school
expenditures.
(k)   Many government secondary schools can no longer afford to provide stationery and
are now asking students to purchase their own exercise books. This is not
apparently causing major problems.
(1)   All secondary schools try to provide textbook sets because textbooks are not
readily available to buy privately. Private schools require students to buy
their own books if possible.
(m)   Schools complain of lack of availability of texts (both imported and locally
published) and lack of adequate funding to buy when they are available.
(n)   Many secondary schools try to build small collection of textbooks into libraries
and these are heavily used.
(o)   There is a flourishing secondhand market in secondary textbooks but this is
restricted to Dar and other cities and prices are very high (e.g., yery old
secondary biology text for class 4 - TSh 2500; class 1 math text -TS  700;
Concise Oxford Dictionary - TSh 2000; class 4 literature text - TSh 600). Few
students can afford their own individual textbook copies even at second hand
prices.
(p)   There is concern that current levels of English in many secondary schools are not
ood enough to cope with English medium instruction and English language
textbooks written for first language students. The ODA are financing a ma4or
English Languaae Support Program in secondary schools to help alleviate this
problem.
(q)   Tanzanian publishers, both private and parastatal, have little working capital,
skeleton staffs and unsatisfactory payment and credit restrictions. There is no
pre-testing of secondary MSS and the amount of genuine development work in
secondary textbooks is bound to be limited by these factors.
3.    TERTIARY BOOK PROVISION
3.1   Key Issues
(a)   Students in universities currently receive TSh 5000 per annum as a contribution
to textbook costs. In general, it is reported that this allowance is not used
for textbook purchases.
(b)   University bookshops are chronically short of textbooks to sell.  There has been
no foreign exchange allocation for university textbooks for years.
(c)   University students tend to use the university library, faculty libraries and
lecture notes rather than textbooks.
(d)   In teacher training colleges course books are also supposed to be provided free
of charge. The teacher training supplies budget is currently TSh 29.6 m per
year. Of this not more than 5% is available for books - an average expenditure
of less than U5$1 per head per year.
(e)   Every university teacher, training college teacher and head of department
confirmed the negative impact on students' performance of lack of adequate
provision of textbooks.
(f)   There has been very little local publishing of university texts largely because
the university faculties are too small to provide adequate print runs. Local
reprinting of foreign texts is also unlikely as a solution for the same reason.



- 81 -                       ANNEX 7
Page I nf 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOE TIMETABLE OF DIVERSIFIED SECONDARY SCHOOLS: (Forms I-IV)
---------------------Periods per Week 1/_----_____________
Forms  -Iri    ----------Forms III-IV Subject Biases-
All Subi     Agricult   Home Econ    Commerce    Technical
COIPULSORY SUBJECTS
Political Education         2             2          2           2            2
Kiswahili                   3             3          3           3            3
English                     5             5          5           5            5
Mathematics                 6             6          6           6            6
Biology                     3             4          4           4
Geography                   3             -          -           3
History                     2             -          -           -            -
Chemistry                   3             4          4           -            4
Physics                     3             -          -           -            4
Religion                    2             2          2           2            2
Home Economics 2/           8             -         10           -            -
Agricultural Science        8            10          -           -            -
Commerce 3/                 8             -          -          14            -
-Commerce                   4            -           -           7            -
-Book-keeping               4            -           -           7            -
-Typing                     4            -           -           7            _
Technical Subjects         12             -          -           -           19
Self-Reliance              10           10          10         10            10
Sports and Games            2            2           2           2            2
OPTIONAL SUBJECTS
Physical Education          3            3           -           3            3
Physics*                    -            4           4           4            -
Chemistry*                                - -        4           4
Foreign Languages           3            3           3           3            -
Music                       3             3          3           3            3
Woodwork/Metal work         3             -          -           -            -
Home Economics              3             3          -           3
Additional Mathematics      -             4          4           4            -
Geography                   -            3           3
History                                   3          3           3
Biology                            -           -           -                  4
Art                         3             3          3           3            3
*At least 702 of the students taking Agriculture, Commerce and Home Economics biases
must take physics; at least 702 of the students taking Commerce must take Chemistry.
l/ Each period is 40 minutes long except in self-reliance and sports where
the duration is in hours.
2/ Home Economics is compulstory to girls in Forms I and II but optional to
boys.
3/ A student selects two subjects from commerce, book-keeping and typing.



- 82 -
AM=  7
Page 2 of 2
Technical/Vocational Education
MOE - Program Timetable of Upper Secondary Schools
(Forms V and VI)
*A Level
-----Periods per Week 41----
Art and
Category                                    Social Sciences        Sciences
Principal Level
Kiswahili                                          8
English Language                                   8
French                                             8
Geography                                          8                  8
History                                            8
Economics                                          8
Accountancy                                        8
Commerce                                           8
Educational Psychology                             8                  8
Mathematics                                       10
Physics                                           10
Chemistry                                         10
Biology                                           10
Agricultural Science                                                 10
Textile Technology                                                   10
Food and Nutrition                                                   10
Subsidiary Level
Political Education                                4                  4
Basic Applied Mathematics                          4                  4
Religious Studies                                  2                  2
Self-Reliance Activities (in hours)               10                 10
Sports and Games (in hours)                        2                  2
4/ The duration for the subjects is 40 minutes, except for self-reliance
activities, sports and games which is in hours.



- 83 -                       ANEX 8
Page 1 of 7
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
Overview
1.        The Central Government is the main provider of funds for
education in Tanzania. Excepting primary education and adult literacy
where central government grants are transferred to regional units, all
public expenditures on education - e.g., secondary, teacher training,
technical education and university education - are met centrally by MOE.
2.        An analysis of the recurrent Government expenditures over a five
year pF.   l 1983/84 - 1987/88 (Table 1) shows that an average of about 14
percer     the share vent to the education sector, which is rather low
compar<_ to sub-Saharan standards where the average is over 20 percent. Of
the total educational expenditures over this five year period, recurrent
costs accounted for nearly 87 percent and capital costs accounted for the
remaining 13 percent. Indeed, the education share of the national capital
budget has been extremely low. Over the period 1983/84 - 1987/88 an
average of 7.8 percent of the capital budget was devoted to education
(Table 2). In 1987/88 only 6 percent of the capital budget has been
earmarked for education. During the period under review investment budget
for education has continuously lagged behind the total Government
investment in proportionate terms. Thus as an index of 1983/84 (=100)
whereas total development expenditure has increased to 185 in 1987/88 the
index for educational expenditure has increased to only 112.
3.        In financing educational development in Tanzania, external
assistance has played an important role. Over a six year period 1981/82 -
1986/87 an amount of TSh 2,230 million flowed from external sources. For
the fiscal year 1987/88 a further amount of TSh 456 million is expected as
project assistance accounting for 49.3 percent of the capital budget. The
major sources of funding are the World Bank, SIDA and DANIDA (Table 3).
Expenditure on Primary Education
4.        The Musoma Resolution of 1974 called for Universal Primary
Education in Tanzania. By 1986, the gross enrollment ratio was estimated
at 80 percent; however, much of this enrollment is due to over-aged
children, many of whom entered with the massive enrollment of 7-13 year
olds in 1979.
5.        The effects of the expansion at primary level are reflected in
the recurrent budgets of the MOE; primary education accounted for 55
percent of the budgets FY 1982/83-1987/88. The bulk of the money goes
towards teachers' salaries and very little is left to do the essential
repair and maintenance of 10,255 schools and replacement of furniture which
are expected to be catered through local community self-reliance efforts.
Further, there is no evidence that the students' contribution of TSh 100



- 84 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
per annum introduced by the Government in 1985 is being systematically
collected by the schools or as to what use this is being put. In reality
the physical condition of the schools continues to deteriorate for lack of
funds. Over the five year period under consideration about 15 percent of
the MOE capital budget was spent on primary education which, even allowing
for the expectation of community efforts, reflects a very low investment in
basic education (Table 4).
6.        The declining per capita expenditure on primary education has
already had undesirable effects on the quality of education 1/. Equally,
Government statements of commitment to adult education and literacy program
are not reflected in budgetary provisions.
Expenditure on Secondary Education
7.        Public secondary education, because of high operating costs
continues to absorb the second largest share of recurrent educational
budget (Table 2). For the period 1982/83 to 1987188 it averaged over 13.4
percent of the recurrent budget and increased slightly to 13.7 percent in
1987/88. Likewise, secondary education accounts for 14 percent of the
capital budget for the same period.
8.        Following the recommendations of the President's Commission on
education (1984), Government reintroduced fees in public secondary schools
in 1985 at rate shown below. Although no macro data are available on the
financing of primary secondary education, it is understood that the major
source of income for this category of schools is student fees. Boarding
students in private schools pay TSh 7,000-7,500 per year and day students
TSh 3,200-3,700.
Boarding students              TSh 2,000
Day students with lunch        TSh   700
Day students without lunch    TSh   350
9.        Fees were reintroduced in public schools to offset the increasing
costs to Government but as yet no national data are available on the
amounts collected at secondary level. The Government has declared its
objective of establishing only day secondary schools in future. The
provision of these schools will be shared by the central MOE and the local
community, in that Government will provide building materials and standard
designs and the local community will provide the labor. During FY 1986187,
13 day secondary schools have been built but they have not yet been
commissioned largely because of lack of equipment, science laboratories,
books and learning materials.
Expenditure on Technical Education
1! The quality of primary education in Tanzania, I.M. Omari and H.J. Mosha.
Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, 1987.



- 85 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
10.       The country has a small base of post-secondary technical
education having only three technical colleges, the last of which was
commissioned in 1986. The total 1986 enrollment of the three technical
colleges is 1,500.
11.       Government priority on technical education is reflected in
capital investments for the six year period 1982/83 - 1987/88 when on
average 21.5 percent of the capital budget amounting to TSh 696 million was
spent on technical colleges.
12.       The technical education colleges urgently need revamping and
modernization of workshops and equipment, closer links with industries and
the recruitment and training of qualified staff. This will need not only
additional resources but also improved management and a better labor market
information system.
Expenditure on Teacher Education and Training
13.       There is an acute shortage of qualified teachers both at primary
and secondary levels. Government intends to bolster the existing teacher
training capacities for upgrading the existing grade C and B teachers to
grade A at primary level and fill the secondary teaching posts with diploma
and graduate teachers. For the preparation of secondary teachers
Government has decided to encourage the establishment of teacher training
colleges in the private sector. This is in line with the policy on the
development of private secondary education which caters for more than half
of the children. Improved teacher qualification will obviously mean higher
teacher costs.
14.       The share of teacher education in the recurrent budget of MOE has
remained constant at little over 6 percent over a S year period 1982/83 -
1986/87, while capital expenditures average 11.26 percent for the same
period amounting to a total expenditure of TSh 317 million. At the present
level of expenditures it will not be possible to supply the teachers
required under UPE and under the target of 15 percent secondary enrollment
by the year 2000 (see Scenarios in paras. 2.35-2.49 of Chapter II).
Expenditure on Higher Education
15.       Expenditure on higher education has been subjected to increasing
concern for various reasons: (a) a very high cost (by far the highest in
Sub-Saharan countries); (b) the relevance of the curriculum to the
development needs of the country; (c) the academic preparation of those who
gain access to university education through the primary and secondary
education system.
16.       All expenses of higher education are met by the Central MOE
through block grants to the two universities (Dar es Salaam and Sokoine
Agricultural University) and fees and allowances paid to the students who
are sponsored by the Government. In addition to the two Tanzanian
Universities, the Government also supports about 1,000 students who are
studying abroad. This constitutes about a fifth of all students engaged in
higher education.



- 86 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
17.       Higher education consumed 13.1 percent of the recurrent budget
(1982/83-1987/88) but takes an increasing share of capital budget from 10.7
percent in 1982183 to over 20 percent in 1985/86-1987/88 period (Table 4).
18.       Tanzanian higher education is characterized by extremely high
operation costs attributable to the way it is organized. For example, the
existing teacher/student ratio is 1:3.8 and the academic/non-academic staff
ratios are 1:1, whereas the average ratios for 15 Sub-Saharan universities
are 1:8.2 and 1:4 respectively.
Unit Expenditure at Various Levels
19.       Unit recurrent expenditure by level of education for the period
1982/83-1986/87 is presented in (Table 5) while recurrent and unit costs as
multiple of primary unit cost are given in Table 6. In secondary education
over the period of multiple declined from 22 to 18, in technical education
from 81 to 55, and in higher education from 260 to 168.
20.       The implications are clear.  There is certainly great inequity in
the allocations to the various levels of education as far as unit costs go.
A re-examination of existing allocation practices is needed to achieve the
Government's goals of qualitative improvement of primary education and
gradual quantitative expansion of secondary and tertiary education. What
community resources go into primary education over and above t'Le Government
expenditure have not been determined. Whether the unit costs at the
various levels are inadequate, adequate or excessive will require some
careful study to ensure that no extreme of deprivation of waste is
occurring and to determine the scope for adjustments. Adjustments in unit
costs in each subsector clearly cannot be divorced from decisions on the
size of enrollments in the subsector. Small downward adjustment at higher
education level could in some respects prove educationally disastrous with
very little budget impact whereas small upward adjustment at the primary
level can put the overall cost beyond the capacity of the country to
maintain the same enrollment levels.
12/20/89



- 87 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
FINANCIAL DATA
Table 1. Trends in Government Allocations for Education
1983-1987
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
1.   Recurrent (TSh million)         2,485    ----   3,672   5,341   6,965
2.   Capital (TSh million)             346     478      591   1,439      898
3.   Recurrent as X of total
Government recurrent
expenditure                       16      14       16      14       12
4.   Capital as Z of total
Government development
expenditure                        9       7        9       8        6
Table 2. Public Expenditures on Education
by Level of Education
1982-1986 (in percent)
----------1982----------   ---------1986----------
Revenue  Capital  Total   Revenue  Capital  Total
Administration          6.0    15.9       7.1       5.0    17.6       7.7
Primary Education      53.2    19.8      49.6      56.6    12.1      47.1
Secondary Education   13.2    14.1       13.1      14.1    20.0       6.9
Teacher Training        5.7    12.4       6.4       6.5     8.5       6.9
Technical Education    1.9    14.9        3.2       1.5    20.0       5.4
Higher Education       12.6    10.7      12.4      12.5    15.5      13.1
Adult Education         7.5    12.2       8.0       3.8     6.3       4.4
TOTAL      100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0



- 88 -
ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 7
TAMLE 8; EXTERNAL AID TO EDUCATION BY SOURCES OF fWUINO
--.-.---_-----------------------_--__-------_-
1981/82 - 1867/86
(TSh &IIIIon)
Source of         1981/82  1982/83 1983/84  1984/8S  1985/86  1986/87  1987/80
Funding                                                                     Total   Perc.nt.s
SDA                  79.2    "6.7    55.3    60.1   109.1   1S5.4   139.0   693.8    25.81
10RLD BANK           24.4    UG.1    64.5    86.3   108.5   484.6   126.1   o30.5    34.61
DANIDA               55.4   38.9    40.5    79.1    45.0   131.2    64.5   452.6    16.91
UNICEF                2.5     3.0      6.3      8.7     4.7      9.9    14.9    60.0       1.91
NORAD                11.5     2.8      4.2    16.6    34.7    56.8    72.0   198.6         7.41
EEC                   3.5     2.3      2.0      4.0     6.0    14.6       1.0    32.4      1.21
FRO/WST              64.0    12.4      6.0      8.0    22.8    31.8      8.0   118.0       4.41
ADF                  13.5     1.5      4.5      5.8    10.5    42.3    ---       78.1      2.91
NETHERLANDS           2.0     3.2    ----    12.0    --          1.2     7.8    27.0       1.01
USSR                  1.0    ---      ---    ----    18.0    ---         ---     19.0      O.7x
F1NLAND               3.5     2.0      3.5      3.0    16.2    21.0      6.0    66.0       2.21
SDC                  ----    ---      ----    ----    ----    ----    it.?    11.7         0.4£
UNDP                 ----    ----    ----    ----    ---         2.9     8.0    10.9       0.41
UNCI                  2.5     2.0    ----    ----    ----    -           -        4.5      0.21
CANADA               --      ---      ---    ----       0.7    --    --           0.7      0.0
233.8   168.7   186.8   283.6   376.2   981.7   456.0  2685.6   100.01
TABLE 4: TRENDS IN ALLOCATION OF PUBLIC CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
==== - - - - - - - - - - - .- - - -                       
FOR PRIMARY EBUCATION
(TSh million)
1981    1982    1983    1984    18o
Total. for:
1. Education          354828  270205  348329  478294  691050
2. Primary             54075   53650   57329   56983   65290
Education
3. PIMary              40411   31127   28141    --       17127
Eduection
In contant
1980 price.
4. (2) abov .           15.21   19.91   16.6X    11.9X    11.01
x of (1)



- 89 -
ANMEX 8
Page 7 of 7
TABLE 5: #WIT RECURRENT EXPENDITLURE
__________________________
BY LEVEL Of EDUCATION
(in TSh)
LEVEL                          1982/68   1988/84   1984/85   1985/88   1988/87
Primary                           886.6    846.3   n/a          668.1    957.1
Secondary (Publitc)             7,545.8   8,278.9  10,865.8  11,175.2  17,409.9
Teacher Training               10,037.0  10,080.8  12,987.8  17,629.4  27,625.5
Tochnical Education            27,246.8  25,059.6  27,006.9  33,416.0  62,412.9
Higher Education               87,438.2  98,740.8 112,867.1 12s,486.2 160,712.0
TABLE 6:       UNIT RECURRENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
AS MULTIPLE OF PRIMARY UNIT RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
Sub-
LEVEL                          1982/88   1988/84   1986/86   1986/87   Saharan
-- - -- ------ ------- - ---------- Africa
(1988)
As Multiple of Primary
Secondary (Public)                   22        24        17       1t         6.5
Teacher Training                     80        29        26        29
Technical Education                  e1        72        60        S5        29
Higher Education                    260       286       204       168



- 90 -                       ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Government Expenditure on Education
10 76 Tanzfla Shillings (Millions)
1200
Soo
1000
600
0
TO 77 78 79 60 81 62 63 64 66 8 67 66 69
Year (P76 X 1976-76)
Reported           Eisttinated



91 -                      ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
Per Capita Expenditure on Education
In Real Terms
Index (1070-77 * 100)
i20
60
40
85-87
20                                      figums
O  . s   |   .   .   . _  .   .   18uapect,
77  76  70  60  61  62  683  64  6   86  67  68  69
Yeu ("77' * 1976-77)



92-ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Education's Share of Budget
Percent of Budgoet
20$                                                 85-87
0%
68   70   72   74   76   78   60   82   8    86    8
Year ('68' *1967-68)
--- Total Budget   a Excluding Debt



- 93 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 13
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF MOE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
I. Management at the Center: Ministry of Education, Dar es Salaam
Formal Description
1.           This section identifies the main features of the formal structure, or-tnization
and management of the Ministry of Education MOE), Dar es Salaam, providing both tt.e formal
organizational chart (pages 11-13) and a full description of the roles of key positions and
focal departments and their various sub-units.  It proves impossible to identify the channels
of power, status and influence operating as the informal and probably most influential power
structures within the formal system. However, the section points out the limitations of the
organizational and management capability of the MOE to achieve the responsible tasks of
directing, supporting, expanding and financing the Tanzanian system of education. Equally,
it argues the limited organizational and managerial capability of the individual, specialized
departments and their constituent sub-sections to achieve their formally designated tasks and
goals.
Legal Basis
2.           The Tanzanian education system is governed, managed and controlled through the
National Education Act (Number 25), 1978, passed by Parliament to uPdated the Education Act
(Number 50) of 1969. The former incorporated the basic tenets of the Party policy document
'Education for Self-Reliance" subsequent to its adoDtion after 1967; the latter incorporated
elements of the Musoma Resolutions of 1974.
3.           Under the Act, the Minister of Education is responsible for the promotion of the
education of the people of Tanzania and the progressive development of institutions devoted
to that purpose. The Minister is also responsible for securing the effective execution by
local authorities, under .his guidance, control and direction, of the national policy for
providing "a varied, comprehensive and nationally beneficial educational service in their
respective jurisdictions." Under the Act, the Minister is provided wide powers to discharge
these variegated res onsibilities. Assisted by a Deputy Minister, he provides a formalizea
linkage to Party, political and the Parliamentary decision-makers and the policy-making
machinery. The complexities of these inter-relationships and the effects these produce, and
the capacity of the MOE to shape, influence, implement and execute educational policy are
discussed later in this section.
4.           Under the 1978 Education Act, the Minister is provided with an Advisory Committee
(consisting of representatives widely experienced in, or connected with, issues ot eaucation
in the nation, appointed by and reporting directly to the Minister of Education). This
Committee is responsible for advising the Minister on matters relating to the execution,
organization, promotion, development, legislation, theory and practice of education.
5.           The Permanent Secretary (PS) for Education is the Senior Civil Servant within the
Ministry, accounfilaTe for its routine management, structure and organizaticn and is the Chief
Accounting Officer of the MOE.
6.           The Commissioner for Education provides the professional leadership of the MOE
and is the academic adviser vertically, horizontally and laterally on all aspects of
educational policy and practice to all its arms and throughout the institutions of the
educational system.  He coordinates all the professional departments and is accountable 'or
the activities of specific educational parastatal organizations responsible for providinq
services within the system of education including the Institute of Curriculum Development
(ICD), the National Examinations Council, and the Institute of Adult Education. However two
major parastatal organizations - Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES) and Tanzania Library Services
and the two universities, University of Dar es Salaam (UDS) and Sokoine University of
Agriculture - are accountable directly to the PS of Education. The role and direction of
these parastatal organizations is discussed elsewhere in the report. Also, the role of the



- 94 -                              AN=ulo
Page 2 of 13
Commissioner, especially his relationship with the professional programs and the senior
management structure, is portrayed in more detail below.
7.           Before discussing that structure, it is important to identify:
(a)   The Unified Teachinq Service Central Board, which not only advises the
Minister directly on a               aatters  renating to teacher policy but is
mandated to act in relation to all personnel matters ccncerning the
teaching profession, including issues of selection aed recruitment,
deployment, promotions, reviews, appraisal, discipline and appeals.
(b)   The Audit Sectien, which reports directly to the PS in order to provide
specialized support in his capacity as Chief Accounting Officer of the
HOE.  The role of internal auditor is to review the HOE's accounting
practice on a regular basis to ensure its efficiency within the directives
aid down by the Ministry of Finance and to seek to identify potential
improvements to audit the accounts themselves and to investigate cases of
poor financial management and accounting, abuse or misconduct.
(c)   The UNESCO National Commission has a national responsibility for
re>-esenting Tanzania within UNESCO and other related international
organizations, acting as a two-way information and advisory flow.
Operating as an inter-ministerial agency, it reports within the MOE
directly to the PS.
Organizational Structures and Roles
8.           The major organizational structures of the MOE that influence the planning,
management and control of the System of education are now portrayed.
Reporting to the Permanent Secretary
9.           The Department of Manpower Development and Administration report directly to the
PS. All other departments report to the Commissioner. Headed by its own Director, the
Department of Manpower Development and Administration provides a major support unit within
the HOE.  Its formal responsibilities are to review and prepared short- and long-term
manpower forecasts and projects and to determine national requirements of professional and
non-professional personnel for deployment within the institutions of the education system.
it comprises four sub-sections.
10.          The Personnel and Administration Section provides administrative and support
services for the department and the MOE as a whole.  Its formal functions include the
maintenance of the manpower data base for all education staff, including details of teaching
staff throughout the Republic (e.g., age, length of teaching, experience, location) as a
basis for determining manpower planning, allocation, training, processing promotions,
transfers, retirements, resignations, leave, etc. The Section also exists to administer all
clerical and support staff within the MOE and to carry out their recruitment in liaison with
the Manpower Training Section. In practice, the Section itself does not contain the caliber
of manpower required to live up to these considerable tasks: itself it symbolizes the
national deficits in the management of manpower.
11.          The Manpower Plannina Section exists in theory to provide the analyses required
to determine and review manpower policies and to forecast manpower requirements in education.
It holds formal responsibility for planning manpower programs of the MOE and for advising on
manpower allocations of the education sector.  the intention is that the section work closely
with other MOE sections (as well as with extra-ministry units) in order to accomplish its
major tasks. These include:
ta)   Helping to define and review manpower policies in cooperation with the
professional program divisions discussed below, and with Central Unified
Teaching Service. Such policies include those associated with consistent
definitions and required qualifications: conditions of service, salaries,
promotions, incentives.
(b)   Preparing long- and intermediate-term manpower development for education
sector staff, including the forecasting of manpower requirements for the
sector as a whole; projecting the likely staff throughout the sector;
identifying main needs for use in determining required expansion of



- 95 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 13
training programs, preparation of MOE requirements vis-a-vis national
manpower requirements both within the HOE and within the institutions of
the education system; collaborating with the Manpower Training Section to
define sectoral and Ministry needs vis-a-vis types of program required
(e.g. in-service training, recruitment establishment of the new pre-
service training needs and institutions$ and indicating the types and size
of resources necessary to support such initiatives.
(c)   Preparing the annual manpower allocation plans, which coordinate
promotions, transfers, allocation of new staff in cooperation with the
rime Minister's Office, MOE units and central establishments. This
includes summsrizing annually the actual sector manpower status
nationally; collaborating with the other sections of the MOE to determine
their manpower requirements as well as those of districts and regions in
order to determine their needs and to ensure consistency with national
manpower policies; liaising with central establishments to define and
determine staffing guidelines towards staffing by levels and by coverage;
coordinating the annual promotion exercise for all teaching and
professional staff in liaison with the Unified Teaching Service, and
coordinating annually the promotion exercise for all teaching and
professional staff in liaison with the Unified Teaching Service and
coordinating annually the promotion exercise for all non-teaching staff in
education.
(d)   Monitoring sectoral manpower performance by assisting in identifying and
resolving major problems and pursuing proposed training and recruitment
programs and the preparation of the Annual Manpower Review.
In practice, our observations of the functioning of this section parallels those of the
Personnel and Administration Sector of the United Teaching Service Central Board: its impact
is much less than the defined role would lead one to expect.
12.          The Manoower Training Section exists to develop comprehensive programs to meet
the training needs of the education sector for all levels of staff. Its two major
r.sponsibilities are to:  (a) oversee the planning execution of all training program   by
reviewing the design, planning and implementation of training (mostly in-service) for
professional non-teaching staff in the MOE Headquarters, the regional and district offices;
and (b) liaising mainly with the Institute of Management Training for Education Personnel
(MANTEP) to coordinate such in-service training.
13.          The Finance and Accounts Section is responsible for the financial management and
control syatem of the MOE ensuring that these are effective and consistent with Government
policies and standards. The Section is designed to assist the professional program divisions
prepare their own budgets, to prepare the MOE's development and recurrent budgets and
supplementary estimates, to control and monitor MOE expenditure; to maintain MOE accounts;
and to manage the payroll operations of the MOE.
14.          This section of the Report has identified the major functions prescribed for the
Department of Manpower Development and Administration. Its role, as the department most
closely associated with the management of human resources both within the MOE Headquarters
and within the national system of education is of paramount importance.  The limitations of
this department to accomplish its universal and all embracing functions are equally of
paramount importance.  Criticisms are made of the management competencies of its own staff;
misgivings are expressed over the relatively closedness of its own operations in relation to
staffing policies and procedures; skepticism is expressed over the capacity of this
department to achieve satisfactory management capability and behavior both within the MOE
Headquarters and within the institutions of the system as a whole. Crucially, the inadequate
manpower management emanating from this department is mirrored in inadequate manpower
management in the institution and sub-systems of education system throughout the Republic.
Renortino to the Commissioner
15.          The Appendix now turns to the additional professional management structure,
including the roles of the Comissioner for Education and the role and organization of the
Department of Educational Planning, the Inspectorate and the seven Directorate programs.
16.          The Commissioner is the senior professional holling responsibility for all
professional and academic aspects of education. He is directly accountable to the PS.



- 96 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 13
Supported by his senior management team, mainly the seven department directors and the Chief
Inspector of Schools, who provide the specialist expertise within the specialist program
areas, the Comissioner is responsible for overseeing the direction, control and management
of the Tanzanian education system. Specific major task areas include:
(a)   Provision of the overall direction to the specific programs outlined
below, as well as other sub-sections of the HOE by:
(i)       seeking to coordinate the aunual activities of the individual
programs and ensuring that they are consistent with each other
and with overall planning guidelines where they exist;
(ii)      coordinating the activities of the directors who form the senior
management team through a regular program of meetings to
facilitate the exchange of information and ideas;
(iii)     the provision of professional advice and assistance to these
departments and programs to tackle emergent problems associated
with their implementation; and
(lv)      follow-up of the activities of each department and directorate by
requiring regular reporting and accountability of these
departments.
(b)   Participating in all major policy and planning issues, through:
'i)       providing leadership in the evolution of all major educational
strategy decisions and providing advice on such policies to the
PS;
ii)       providing leadership in the planning and implementation of
educational strategy; and
iii)      reviewing all aspects of sectoral planning and advising the PS on
the likely outcomes of the impact of planning policies.
(c)   Providing necessary coordination of program design between the specialist
departments and the Inspectorate, by:
{i)       coordinating the preparation of individual department plans and
ensuring the mutual impact they will produce on other
departments;
(ii)      representing the KOE on the Programmes Committee of ICD and the
National Examinations Council;
(iii)     reviewing existing and proposed innovations in curricula,
syllabi, examinations and educational support materials in
advance of their implementation.
(d)   Serving as the senior HOE representative (or delegating that
representation to the departments most closely involved) on the three
organizations which report to him:
(i)       the Institute of Curriculum Development;
(ii)      the National Examinations Council; and
(iii)     the Institute of Adult Education.
(e) Overseeing the development and management of education manpower by:
(i)       liaising mainly with the Department of Manpower Development and
Administration;
(ii)      advising on all policies relating to the management and
utilization of human resources in education;



- 97 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 13
(iii)     monitoring, reviewing and contributing to manpower plans;
(iv)      coordinating the planning of manpower requirements of individual
departments within the MOE; and
(v)       supporting training and retraining programs for individual staff.
17.          The Commissioner's responsibilit  for the control and direction of Tanzanian
school system is clearly delineated in the 'I78 National Education Act: "The Commissioner
shall be responsible for the general management and administration of all schools for whose
management the Government is responsible or for whose maintenance the Government makes a
contribution."
18.          The above section has portrayed the major salient features of the roles of the
Commissioner for Education, as formally outlined for this senior management position.
Comment has been made on the extent to which, in the present organizational and resourcing
climate of the MOE, it proves possible to achieve this idea, for, clearly, there exist major
shortfalls in the management, organization and coordination of the MOE that constrain its
organizational effectiveness.  A major function of the Commissioner is to coordinate the
activities and programs of the individual directorates.
Individual Departments
(a)   Department of Education Planning
19.          The Department of Education Planning headed by a Director of Education Planning
is responsible for both sectoral planning and control and for professional program planning,
although the greater part of the role of the Director of Planning is formally described as
managing the work of the Sectoral Plans Section (one of his four sections) and of reviewing
its output.  The Director of Planning is responsible for managing the Ministrys planning and
control system and for designing and implementing a uniform system to be utilized throughout
the departments of the sector. His advice to the PS is supposed to cover all sectoral
planning issues.
20.          There are four sections in the Department.
21.          The Sectoral Plans Section is expected to perform most of the detailed planning
tasks for the education system:  forecasting requirements, identifying and analyzing proposed
plans and formally assembling the planning documents.  In theory, it also provides special
assistance in analyzing and evalu:ting the proposed plans for the four parastatal
organizations (TES Tanzania Library Services, UDS and Sokoine University of Agriculture)
that report directly to the PS.
22.          The Section is responsible for four major planning and control tasks:  (a)
preparing and reviewing the comprehensive long-term sectoral plans and strategies by
performing specific analyses and coordinating the inputs from other Directorate departments;
(b) assisting in the preparation of Education Five Year Plans by performing the analyses and
preparing the documentation to enable the Director and senior management team to contribute
to relevant working parties of the Planning Commission; (c) coordinating the annual
programming process, liaising with other Directorate departments; and (d) monitoring sectoral
pertormance.
The formal intention is for the Sectoral Plans Section to direct all sectoral planning and
control tasks, relying heavily on inputs from the education departments. This function has
almost totally broken down. Sectoral planning is virtually non-existent and the Section is
virtually emasculated.
23.          The Statistics Section is responsible for the design, maintenance and management
of an effective statistical system and data base for education providing a major information
service for other departments within the MOE as well as outside clients within the national
(and international) system.
24.          Its prime function has been to design an information system for the whole sector,
and includes liaising with other data users in order to ensure the adequate collation of
relevant data as weli as to design the administrative structure required to collect data and
to determine responsibilities for its collection both within the MOE Headquarters and through
the Provincial Education Offices.



- 98 -
ANNE 10
Page 6 of 13
25.          Its second function has been to coordinate the production of statistics and to
perform basic statistical analysis. Included in this is the liaison with district and
regional educational offices of the schedule for receiving, collating and processing
statistical data from the field, updating the data base and the preparation and review of
essential statistics (e.g., on enrollment rate by nation, by district, by region, by sex;
trends, unit costs). In practice these do not appear to be disaggregated in this way. Its
control over accuracy and reliability of data is minimal, its influence on the data of
decentralization is limited. The Section operates at a basal level in a state of disarray
with no command over basic essential data - its filing system is disorganized, much of the
data is unreliable and unverifiable. This Section needs a major overhaul if it is to fulfill
its minimal service function to the MOE and to the system as a whole.
26.          The Project Planning Section (PPS) is responsible for:  (a) coordinating the
preparation of architectural plans and designs for new educational institutions, the
maintenance of existing buildings and the necessary liaison with external groups and
contractors; (b) assisting in drawing up specifications and master plans for specific types
of institutions and costing them; ana (c) acting as managing agent during the implementation
of projects and preparing regular progress reports for review with the appropriate
departmental heads.
27.          The Procurement and SupDly Section is intended to provide the overall
coordination and sDecific expertise required to plan for and ensure the efficient procurement
of all specified national educational supplies. The section provides a service role within
the MOE, especially for TES as well as other outside suppliers and service units. Its four
major tasks are to: (a) establish and update specifications for all education supplies,
working closely with departmental directors and section headsi (b) prepare detailed
procurement plans that reflect planned programs over a specific time period; (c) follow-up on
the procurement and distribution process within regions and districts; and (d provide
special assistance to divisions in costing the supplies implications of possible plans.
28.          A fresh emphasis should be given to basic competencies and skills demanded within
the Department of Education Planning in order that it can undertake the important range of
tasks with which it is charged. Priority should be given to the inculcation of approriate
skills of planning, management, data and financial control. Much of the intended work of the
Department entails an involvement with the professional program planning of the separate
professional departments, assisting with the definition of how individual programs should be
implemented and translating the programs into plans and resource requirements. There are
blurred but critical distinctions between these two intended roles.
(b)   The Inspectorate Department
29.          School inspection is coordinated through the Inspectorate Department, headed by
the Chief Inspector of Schools. At the MOE Headquarters, the Inspectorate operates through
six sections: Administration, Primary Education, Secondary Education, Teacher and Adult
Education, Registration of Teachers and Schools, and Coordinating Unit for Research and
Evaluation.
30.          The Administration Section provides the major machinery for conducting the
routine functions of the department, monitoring and regulating both academic and non-academic
matters.
31.          The Primary. Secondary and Teacher and Adult Education Sections coordinate the
inspection acttvtfies pertormed in the field through seven zones, each headed by a zonal
Chief Inspector of Schools, accountable to the Chief Inspector of Schools in the MOE
Headquarters. At zonal level, the above sections coordinate the inspection of their
corresponding educational levels.
32.          The Registration of Teachers and Schools Section is responsible for the
procedures that govern the establishment and management of new and existing schools.  It is
designed to ensure adherence to legislation and regulations pertaining to establishment and
registration, management and control of schols and the provisions relating to teachers
(National Education Act of 1978). In addition to registering public and private schools the
ection records licensed and non-licensed teachers permitted to teach in private and public
schools.
33.          The Coordinatino Unit for Research and Evaluation ,CURE) in princi al is designed
to act as a service unit throughout the Ministry, and its reporting lines are dcirectly to the
Permanent Secretary rather than the Commissioner. Its formal functions are to: (a)



- 99 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 13
coordinate educational research and evaluate throughout the Republic: (b) review educational
research and evaluation reports and advise the MOE on appropriate action; (c) plan and
conduct educational enquiries on the processes of implementation and the impact of
educational reform and educational policy; and (d) advise the MOE on appropriate actions.  In
practice, not only its organizational location but its weak staffing situation prevents CURE
from undertaking much informed research or evaluation.
34.          Over and above the tasks of acting as "a field force" of the MOE,of visiting the
institutions of the educational system and providing insights to the directors of specialist
programs on meaningful changes to policy and program implementation, the Inspectorate is
responsible for initiating and effecting organizational improvements within the institutions
and for contributing throughout the MOE on all aspects of policy design, curricula,
methodologies and examinations.  Chapter Seven comments on the extent to which the
Inspectorate successfully accomplishes the roles of change agent and facilitator of good
practice.
(c)   Professional Proram DeRartments
35.          There are six Departments of Education. each headed by a Director reporting to
the Commissioner for Education: (a) Department of Primary Education; (b) Department of
Secondary Education; (c) Department of Technical Education Coordination; (d) Department of
Higher Education; (e) Department of Adult Education; and (f) Department of Teacher
Education.
36.          These Departments have a range of managerial and organizational features in
common. Each Director is responsible for: (a) ensuring the continued improvement in the
effectiveness of their specialist departments; (b) providing professional leadership in their
respective programs; (c) ensuring the effective planning and implementation of their
respective programs; (d) serving as the senior adviser on all policy matters in relation to
the respective programs; and (e) liaising with other directors on matters requiring
professional coordination.
37.          Specific areas of managerial expertise and professional competence vary according
to the emphasis of the Departments.  For example, a major task of the Director of Primary
Education is to liaise with the regional education offices, district education offices and
the Prime Minister's Office on all matters of primary education. The Director of Adult
Education is supposed to l'aise with regions, districts, other ministries and the Institute
of Adult Education on the educational needs of adults. The Director of Secondary Education
is responsible for ensuring the effective implementation of the four biases of diversified
secondary education, through the Technical, Agricultural, Commercial and Domestic Science
Sections of the Department. The Director of teacher Education is responsible for ensuring
that teacher education programs meet the needs of the education system both qualitatively and
quantitatively and for ensuring the effective management and operation of all teachers
colleges. The Director of Higher Education coordinates aspects of higher education in
Tanzania and the deployment of students overseas. (Although the universities have wide
decision-making autonomy, the Director is responsible for their recurrent budgets.)
38.          The Department of Primary Education, Secondary Education, Technical Education
Coordination and Adult Education contain Design and Coordination Sections. These sections
are intended to assume responsibility for the professional aspects of policy design and
evaluation of each specific professional program and to ensure that programs are effectively
planned and executed.  The quality of attainments within the educational system provides its
own commentary upon the actual effectiveness of these sections.  Working together with other
sections within their respective departments, their specific responsibilities can be
identified as follows:
(a)   to propose and review all major education policies and standards within
their respective programs. This, in theory, is to be based on the
sections' own specialized knowledge as well as inputs from the regions and
districts and the pertinent section of the Inspectorate. This is a
critical role within each program as these policies and standards provide
the overall framework within which the plans for each department are
evolved, developed and implemented;
(b)   to design the educational methodologies and materials for each program.
Closely related to the planning of each program, the task theoretically
involved identifying the modalities of achieving the planning targets and
assuming the management of implementation of those targets;



- 100 -
Ala=  10
Page 8 of 13
(c)   to oversee the development and management of the teaching cadres within
each specific program.  This should involve liaison with the Department of
Manpower Development and Administration (which holds overall
responsibility for the management of manpower) and advice on manpower
forecasts, plans and allocations within each Department's programs; the
review of individual curricula and training needs;
(d)   to evaluate the effectiveness of each program.  This again involves
liaison and coordination with the pertinent section of the Inspectorate
Department;
(e)   to contribute to the preparation of national education programs.  Although
the Sectoral Plans Section holds the major responsibility for performing
most of the detailed and quantitative sectoral planning tasks, the
individual design and coordination sections are responsible for providing
specialist inputs and advice on intermediate and long-term specialist
budgetary requirements; and
(f)   to monitor the implementation of individual programs, liaising, in theory,
with CURE in the Inspectorate Department.
39.          The Department of Secondary Education and the Department of Teachers Education
both contain speciaiist Administration Sections (although why specifically only these two
remains a matter of interest). These sections are intended to reduce the administrative
overloads on the program directorate. In the case of secondary education, the section is
designed to assist in routine administrative tasks under the supervision of the Director,
e.g., in the selection of secondary school students, the registration of private schools, the
distribut-on of certificates to students, the channelling of correspondence to appropriate
section heads, processing routine correspondence on student and teaching matters. In the
case of teacher education, the section is designed to carry out similar routine
administrative tasks under the supervision of the director, e.g., student selections
certification of graduates, staff posting (in liaison with the Personnel Administration
Section of the Department of Manpower Development and Administration).
40.          These areas assume common managerial expertise, although sections and sub-
sections demand specialist knowledge and expertise. It appears unTikely that sufficient
attention is being directed towards the specific specialist knowledge and skills necessary to
ensure these units function to maximal managerial capacity.
41.          In addition to the above areas of expertise, each department contains additional
sections designed to accomplish a ranae of specialist organizational and managerial tasks
which are largely self-explanatory (through their titles). These are listed below to provide
a comprehensive portrait of the organizational structure of the HOE:
(a)   Deoartment of Primary Education
Technical section
Primary Education Coordination Unit (PECO)
(b)   Decartment of Secondary Education
Technical 5ection
Commercial Section
Agriculture Section
Domestic Science Section
(c)   DeDartment of Technical Education Coordination
vocational Training Secton
Technical Training Section
Industrial Training Section
Technical Education in Tanzania Section
(d)   DeRartment of Hicher Education
Higner Education in Tanzania section
Higher Education Overseas Section
(e)   Deoartment of Adult Education
Functional Llteracy Section
Folk Development Colleges Section



- 101 -                                     10
Page 9 of 13
Workers Education Section
Printing Section
(f)   Oopartment of Teachers Education
PriMAry Level Teacners 5ection
Diploma Level Teachers Section
In-Service Planning Section
II. The Regional Structure
42.          Chart 1 in this annex shows the structure involved in the decentralization of
education.
(a)   The Regional Education Officer (REO) is the chief representative of the
HOE designated to provide professional leadership within the region, to
manage and coordinate educational programs and to act as chief educational
adviser to the Regional Development Director (RDD).
(b)   The Academic and Statistics Education Officer is the chief educational
adviser to the REO. He is responsible for (i) supervisinq primary
education; (ii) educational research and evaluation; (iii) collecting data
and preparing and disseminating educational statistics within the region;
(iv} preparing teachers' establishments, and (v) preparing in-service
training programs for primary school teachers.
(c)   The Adult Education Officer advises the REO on all matters relating to
adult education within the reqion and coordinates and monitors the
implementation of adult education programs, organizes seminars and
workshops for adult education coordinators and teachers and coordinates,
analyses and disseminates adult education reports.
(d)   The Education Officer, Teaching Aids, advises the REO on all matte-s
relating to teaching aids development, is responsible for film shows,
distributing rural newspapers, maintaining audio-visual equipment and
coordinating and developing primary school and adult education libraries,
and acts as a reporter for the rural press.
(e)   The Education Officer (Unified Teaching Services - UTS) is responsible for
teacher's welfare, the preparation of teachers' seniority lists,
recommendations for promotions and for maintaining records relating to the
central UTS including employment, salaries and conditions of service.
43.          The formal responsibilities of the regional education offices are:  (a) to
control and manage the development of primary and adult education; (b) to prepare annual,
short- and long-term plans for development pro4ects (for approval by the Ministry of
Education)- (c) to organize and implement specific primary and adult education programs and
projects- td to provide funds for purchasing textbooks, school equipment and statlonery; (e)
to mobilize parents and institutions (e.g., churches) in the construction of classrooms,
teachers' residences, etc.; and (f) to coordinate all support staff from various sections
down to district level and to ensure the smooth functioning of the local system.
44.          Chart 2, Structure of Regional Government Structure, shows the District
educational structure. The formal roles of education officers at this level are as follows:
(a)   The District Education Officer (DEO) provides professional leadership to
the local authority on all aspects of primary and adult education. He is
responsible for preparing and implementing education plans, programs and
pro ects including budgetary allocations, for ensuring the adequacy of
educational facilities materials, etc. and for the establishment of local
"research" and evaluation policies.
(b)   The Logistics and Supplies Education Officer is the chief advisor to the
DEO on all matters relating to the development of education within the
district. He is responsible for data collection and dissemination,
collating primary school statistics and aggregations, establishing
district primary school mapping, school location planning  teacher
establishment, procuring and distributing equipment, text6ooks and



- 102 -
ANN  10
Page 10 of 13
materials, and for budgetary allocations and the control of development
funds for education within the districts.
(c)   The Adult Education Officer advises the CEO on adult education.  He is
reswonsible for planning, implementina, monitoring and coordination of
adult education programs, and the collection, compilation, processing,
analysis and dissemination of data relating to adult education in the
districts.
(d)   The Education Officer-UTS ir responsible for teachers' confirmation,
teachers' terms of service, preparation of teachers' seniority lists, the
maintenance of teachers' registers, recommendations for promotion and
compilation of teachers' records for transmission to the central UTS.
(e)   The Education Officer responsible for Domestic Science is the DEO's chief
advisor on domestic science with responsibility for all activities
relating to school feeding programs, nutrition and community health,
organizing domestic science seminars, workshops, courses, etc. for primary
and adult education teachers and for research, evaluation and syllabus and
materials development in this curriculum area.
(f)   The Education Officer responsible for Technical Education - Arts and
Crafts has responsibilities similar to 'e) above within these curriculum
areas.
(g)   The Education Officer responsitle for the development of teaching aids
advises the DEO on teaching and *.velopment is the coordinator of media
education and correspondence courwes. for libraries and for the
development, distribution and financTng of rural newspapers.
(h)   Importantly, members of the Inspectorate are located at district level,
thouah answerable not to the DEG but to the chief Inspector of Schools at
"zonil" level.



MUhy of Educaion
Muor Secftionsf Administraiv StructUr
I  L~~~~~~~~~~~~
=E    :MI  I~ IWEI
_~~~~~                                                       0
0W_
-__-- T--  ._____~
| FMSLTJ l lIU  iM!L_ 
Fmarumwmw
r                                       -U
II uurrw       .pMuff       1     11               1
WnMIALAUMS4SUM1W                   UTUMIa        P@nUMi
II  coaimuwiouI I   0650CRamwi    OtC
.g~~~~~~ .;0    .   . 1
I 11 =1 Ii - 11 11 11 -I e
I.h
t..
0
Q
I.'



Structure of Regional Mschiney
IuwwwI
FAUL
aa
~~~~~REMO>L                     DAi _ ALAN
o~                                        a  a       
WATER    tOKALC       FMORSAL
rAGOW  rAMOM            SWllO        C LANDt COIE          UPAL- 
-          ~~~~~~~~~~II 
OMER  OFFIM  OFFUM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
OFr                            OFFNM~~~~~~~~~~N



105 -                   ANNEX 10
Page 13 of 13
ii                                             jil
Ii                       IIH                   II
ii               ,j. 



- 106 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 9
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL SCENARIOS FOR THE YEAR 2000
1.       Viability and Sustainability.  In the design of the proposed
project, a vital further consideration has been taken into account also:
namely, the implications of the tight resource constraints the sector faces
-- and will continue to have to live within throughout the coming decade.
The incremental approach that has been proposed is consistent with
estimates of the financial and other resources that will be available to
the sector in the 1990s. The approach is thus viable and sustainable in
terms of its resource requirements. (A more accelerated pace of new effort
and new investment would probably not be. A slower pace, on the other
hand, would be viable but not adequately responsive to the education
needs.)
2.       To assist in the analysis of these resource issues, a number of
alternative scenarios have been examined with different assumptions about
enrollments and costs. A brief summary of this analysis 1/ follows.
3.       At present, primary enrollments are 3.2 million pupils, equalling
74 percent of the primary school age population; secondary enrollments are
104.0 thousand (45.8 in public schools and 58.2 in private), and tertiary
enrollments are 3,297. Unit costs (expenditures per student) are about
TShl,200, TSh21,000, and TSh296,000 at the three levels, respectively,
accounting for TSh3.94, TShO.95, and TShO.98 millions of Government
recurrent expenditure. An additional TShl.2 million is spent on teacher
training, technical education, adult education, and administration,
bringing the total education budget in 1987 to TSh7.O million.
4.       In the first scenario for 2000 (Table 1), the basic enrollment
targets to be achieved are:
(a) 88 percent gross primary enrollment versus 74 percent at present;
(b) a substantial increase in secondary school enrollments (15 percent
of primary school leavers to enroll in secondary schools, up from
5.5 percent at present);
(c) an increase in the transition from lower to upper secondary
school, from 20 percent at present to 27 percent; and
(d) a tripling of enrollments in technical colleges and a doubling of
enrollments at the two universities.
1/   The analysis is an update, with modifications, of earlier work
discussed in the Hay 1988 sector report - 'The Financing of Education
in Tanzania", paras. 2.24-2.47.



- 107 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 9
5.       In this first scenario (Table 12, it is assumed that unit costs
would remain the same in real terms as in 1987. With this somewhat
pessimistic assumption re unit costs and the optimistic assumptions re
enrollments, the scenario implies that the Government's recurrent education
budget must more than double between 1987 and 2000, increasing at an annual
rate of 5.8 percent (Table 2). Given that, in fact, education's share of
the budget is unlikely to increase much, if at all, over the next decade,
and that tha total budget is unlikely to increase at much more than 4
percent, this scenario should be rejected as unfeasible.
6.       In the second scenario (Table 1), all of the enrollment
projections are as in the first. Here it is assumed, however, that
efficiency measures would be adopted to reduce unit costs in critical areas
of the education system. In primary education, unit costs would remain the
same, even though learning efficiency would increase. The pupil-teacher
ratio would become 35:1, increasing from the present 33:1, thus reducing
unit costs by some 5 percent. At the same time, however, expenditures on
reading materials and inspectorate services would increase, thereby fully
offsetting the reduction in unit costs.
7.       The savings built into tte second scenario are extracted at the
secondary and university levels of the system. In secondary education,
unit costs would go from TShl7,400 in 1987 (Table 3) to TShlO,400 in 2000
(Table 4), by increasing student-teacher ratios and reducing the proportion
of boarding students as enrollments increase, by abolishing non-viable
programs such as the post-primary technical colleges and some of the
vocational programs conducted by the Folk Development Colleges, by
improving the performance of institutions responsible for textbook
development, textbook printing, and textbook distribution services, and by
improving efficiency in the teaching of sciences through a new, integrated
curriculum and through the provision of appropriate science equipment and
textbooks. These cost-cutting measures are spelled out in Table 5.
8.       Similarly at the university level, unit costs would be reduced, to
TShl9O,000 from TSh296,000 at present (Table 2). This would be achieved,
as enrollments increase (more than doubling over the period), by ensuring
that overhead costs remain constant or increase very much more slowly.
This implies larger institutional units (faculties, departments, programs,
classes) and much larger student-teacher and student-nonteaching staff
ratios.
9.       Even with all of the cost-cutting measures included, the
affordability of Scenario 2 remains a question. Recurrent allocations
would need to rise at an annual rate of 4.7 percent, which is still bigher
than the projected increase in the Central Government budget. Thus, a
final strategy is presented in Table 1 as Scenario 3. The difference
between Scenarios 1 and 3 is in the rate of increase of primary school
enrollments. Scenario 3 is based on the more modest assumption that
enrollments will increase only at the rate of the primary school age
population growth, or 4.3 percent annually. Thus, the gross enrollment
ratio remains the same in 2000 as in 1987 -- 74 percent. This scenario
provides much less strain on the budget. Education allocations would need



- 108 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 9
to increase at 3.8 percent per annum in real terms, which is probably a
realistic target.
10.      All of the three scenarios include one crucial assumption -- that
teachers' salaries would not increase between 1987 and 2000 in real terms.
Given that the salaries of teachers and other civil servants appear to have
been seriously eroded in Tanzania over the past decade, the assumption of
constant salaries in the future may be questioned. On the one hand, if no
action is taken, the schedule of salaries could be further eroded in the
face of inflation. On the other hand, responsible fiscal policy almost
certainly calls for an increase in salaries so as to restore them, if not
to the highest levels of the recent past, at least to the levels required
to attract and retain talent in government service. This is, in part, the
recommendation of the Bank's recent Public Expenditure Review (PER). 2/
11.      The decision on government salaries is one that must be taken at a
macro level -- teachers would not be treated very differently from other
civil servants. Moreover, it is not clear, when the salary issue is
finally confronted, what the magnitude of the effect on the education
budget would be. There is ample evidence to suggest that civil servants in
Tanzania today receive, on average, far more by way of total compensation
than appears in their basic salary payments. The additional compensation
comes in the form of allowances and bonuses, the total of which is
difficult to keep track of centrally. Certainly, what appears as "personal
emoluments' in the Government budget understates what government servants
actually take home at the end of the day. When the salary structure is
finally rationalized, the effect on the budget could be much smaller than
it would appear at first.
12.      Finally, as recommended in the PER, increases in the rate of
compensation would need to be offset, at least in part, by reductions in
the number of employees so that the increase in the total budget do not
exceed the anticipated growth of the economy -- between 4 and 5 percent
annually. Given demographic pressures on the education system, however, it
is unrealistic to think about major reductions in the absolute number of
teachers. What can be anticipated, and this has been built already into
Scenarios 2 and 3, is a major increase in the rate of teacher (and
facility) utilization, especially at the secondary and tertiary levels.
Student-teacher ratios can be doubled, or nearly so, in post-primary
education in Tanzania
13.      To give a rough idea of the impact of a future increase in
teachers salaries, a fourth scenario, which the project proposes to adapt,
is presented in Table 6. Scenario 4 differs from Scenario 3 in that the
personal emoluments component of educational expenditures is increased by a
factor of 3 by the year 2000, an assumption used in creating scenarios in
the PER. The impact of this policy is significant at every level of
education but obviously much greater at the primary level where Government
figures for 1987 show that a relatively high (81.9 percent) share of
2/   Tanzania Public Expenditure Re-iew, IBRD Report No. 7559-TA, May 22,
1989



- 109 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 9
expenditure is in the form of personal emoluments. At other levels, the
reported shares are much lower, and closer to the overall Government
average, which is 18.1 percent. (This is the figure used for the
university sector in Table 6, because no other information was available.)
14.      The overall impact of a tripling of persoial emoluments on the
growth of the budget in education would be to raise it from 3.8 percent in
Scenario 3 to 10.1 percent in Scenario 4. Education's share of the budget
would need to double over the 13-year period, going from roughly 10.7
percent in 1987 to 21.0 percent. Increases this large in the public sector
resources available to the sector are unlikely. Dramatic improvement in
the economy and budgetary situation would help some; but progress in these
areas rapid enough to eliminate the problem entirely can certainly not be
counted on for planning purposes.
15.      Given the magnitudes involved in the salary issue, the Government
recognizes that its plans for improving education in the 1990s will need to
emphasize three additional themes. First, whatever is done eventually to
increase salaries must not hinder efforts to resolve problems in the non-
salary inputs to education (textbooks, etc.). Second, because salaries are
likely to be raised only by modest amounts at best, other ways to
strengthening incentives for good performance among teachers will need to
be stressed. For example, the non-salary benefits that teachers receive
might be upgraded. Third, options will need to be explored for getting
other sources besides the central government to contribute more to meeting
the costs of education. Districts, communities, and families have already
begun to mobilize more of their own resources for schooling in recent years
than previously. Possibilities for further developments in that direction
will need to be considered. Expanding the total resources available for
education would help both the salary and non-salary needs to be addressed.
Greater local involvement might also help improve teachers' non-salary
benefits, or otherwise provide more positive motivation. The Government is
aware of all this, and it seems probable that an appropriate approach to
these issues, difficult though the salary question may be, can be
maintained throughout the 1990s.
16.      By adopting the financial and managerial strategies proposed
above, the Government would be able to effect increases in enrollment at
primary, secondary, and university levels, while at the same time enhancing
quality by allocating increased resources for the most important inputs --
textbooks, training, and school maintenance. In addition to these
achievements and complementary to them, there would be a systematic,
organizational program to improve the teaching of sciences in primary and
secondary schools. This program would be initiated by promoting among
teachers and school administrators the use of new teaching strategies
geared towards giving children the opportunity to work in a scientific way:
making hypotheses, collecting and analyzing data, drawing conclusions, and
making generalizations. The curricula would be modified and low-cost
equipment provided to every school. Parallel to this effort, the
Government would gradually modify the existing secondary school timetable
to increase the periods allocated to science teaching and to decrease the
periods allocated to so-called "practical" subjects.



Table 1: FINANCIAL SCENARIOS FOR THE YEAR 2000
Scengr,eo for the  year 200)0
19t7 -- the preont situatian                             Scenario 1                                  Scaeario 2                                        5cnario S
A. Serol lento       A. Pr.gnt situatieo                          A. Substatial enrollasem growth             A. Substontiel onrollment greoth                   1 qdeet  nrollrn  groeth
(a) Primry           (a) Grai. pr;e.ry etrol leant rotio          (a) I2caseo  tCo sB  4rCe't -- 100          (W) So" Do Sceearlo 1                              (a) brol Ioeant rrtio so in 1567
74 porc.nt -- t0 poecent inta               percent in take of oeaen yeae
aon year old.; 70 percent                   olde; 00 percent retention
rotention
(1) Secondary         (b) Secondary intale 5.5 percent of          (b) Inet. ;acr _e.e  to 15 prceont;       (b) Sors so PSenario I                             (b) Samas Sceneri.o 1
pelesry output; tratnitien frm               tranoition rate to 27 percent
tower to upper e andary 20
percent
(e)   lwtrelty                                                     (c) Doublt-Og of enrel lmt                 (e) Soma be Scenriro I                             (c) Sea  te SerE io  I 
(d) Other                                                          (8) Tripling of technical; teb chr         (4) Smea  as Seoario 1                             (d) Ss"   s ScearIo 1I
training cut in half
t. UhRlt cto          t Prsnt  iutio                              S  th CO e a in 190                         S. Reodcd coote vie efflicancy esomer o. Reduced tatc e Vie efficiency maSre.
(a) Permry           (a) P"piI-tc-eaer ratio 55:1                 (a) MD  heaneti                             (a) No change -- Ppi II-teaher ratio               (a) Sas  0. Scenario 2
introasod mrginel Iy. to SS:1;
offset by ieee... in quality-
enhancing Input.
(b) Secondary        (b) Student-taeaher ratio 1S:1z at;  -       (b) No Choang                               (b) Caste reduced byr 40 percent -- ratie           b) S_e  as Scenario I
deont 80 percent boarding                                                                Inereased to 25:1; boerdina reduced
to 40 perent.; oere efficient teat-
hook provi-eln and scence instruction
(c) tMivelty                                                      (e) No eb ant                                (c) Cast, reduced by B6 percent  -ol io-          (e) S5s  oe S&eario 1
nation of este  capacity
(d) Other                                                         (d)  ab Change in tacher and tdchni-        (d) Sea  e. Scenario I                             (d) Sa" as Sena rio I
Cal education; total  peonditurr-
on edeanietretlon and adult ad.-
ention ao In 198?
CD t;
0    ;
xD>
O



Table 2: FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS OF DIFFERENT SCENARIOS
sw,.rom for 6oh yer 20
1?   theo romet a.im-.tim                         Segri.  sIomee"ro 2                                                                  o 44rie a
unit     0omq.'wsmst                       IMI      Om,.nwvmmsUt                         I      Go".to.m,t                        Wt    8vru,
Re"remt   Roe"% r *                         R.cure..46  Rerre"t                        Rfcrr..t  Recurenst                       swrre"   I R.curroat
Enwollmt Emp..dltoo Eamtur. Bode"  Erollment ExvredIWro Eap.niltr. bdbe  fO@|_o*mt ESposditre Euoppdl twr brotgrt r 6roll m*  Efldittro Essemdltur bdost
(78)       c    to      U                   CT8)      (TSh         (6)                  70h)      cm<4)    ()                    (7)        rt% l0     (U)
Ab&lmth,ti.nm             ...        ---       85?       5.1        .--         ---        867       2.4        ---         --        85       2.6        -- -                  85?       8.1
Prowwry UEo".                       1.49     8.942      86.0   6.64.000       1.249      6.196      55.7  0e864,000      1.249      6 .e96    e8.6  S.478,20       1,269      6.66      6e.5
h l    em.              --         ---        ---      ---          5.S6       0.06      5.6S      ---         8.66      0.06       5.6       --         4.86      o.0o       4.S1      -
-mcI.ry NOWon          l04.0" ..*.              964     18.a      M64".70      n.m.      2.76       19.0    4w.70         a..       A.m        181.0    84o,700        .       1674      14.6 e.
PhbIic                 45.62       20.602      e54      18.5      186.900    20.620      2.766      19.0    113.00       12.880     1674       18.0    181,900   12.800       1,574      14.a
_f6 c6m                  -         ---        ---      ---          O.6       0.06       6.e8       *-         6.6       -          446       ---        6.6      -8.6        4.4-      ---
Pri.st.                 6.a6 n. -. ---                            200800        ..        ---        ---    2100.600       ..        ---       ---    20o,60s       e...       .--        --
Teed..' Trainl)"       1i,99       86,476      44        6.4       19.600    36,476       780        5.1      19,600    8.47          M0        5.6     19.60    86,47r         780       8.5
Prim.'r (Orsd. C)       2.1                     .        .o  .         0             -     --        --           0        --                                0-
Primry (Orde A)         5.474                                                             A..   ...  n..  16.000  n.s.  n.m.  M.m.  1,6000  n.m.  n.m.  n.m.  1,6000  n.m.     nB.       n.e.
6manmsp (Diplons)       2.86         .e.       .c      n.m.        1.8*0      n.m.       n.e.      n.e.       1,800                                     SIN n.m.  n.m.  1.500  n.*,  n..  a.r.
S.e; "                  1,67 a..              n"..      n.*.       2.000       n.e.       ".D.      ,...       2.000       .m.        .2.000                        n.*.       n..        ..
TochniceS Eiucetir..     1,65      66.6         118      1.8        4.600    66.65?        8le       2.1       4,600     66.667       516      2.5       4.00    66.657         816       2.7
uWvor.ty Education      8,297     296.880      967     1t.9         6.900    290.880     2.048      11.9       6,900   1t0.000      1.611      10.2      6,so 900,0000         1.611     11.4
me I  chine.            -         ---        ---      -            8.66      0.06       6.SI       --         6.66      -,.46      2.86      ---        5.66    -8.46         2.66
Oer-r._-s5 1w           2,810        O.*.      0.0.     n.*.         ---       e.S.       n.m.      n.m.        ---       n.m.       n.0.      n.*.       ---       A.m.       n. .       ---
Sakain.                   467        a.-.      ".O.     M.&.         ---       n.m.       n.m.      n.mf.       ---       n.m.       n.*.      O.*.       ---       n.*.       n.t.       ---
Admit EueuiCo             ---        ---        251      8.6         ---        ---        251       1.7        ---         ---       251       2.0       ---        ---        211       2.2
TMTA                 8,277,6         ---      7,048    100.0   6.929.700        ---    14,702      100.0  6.920o0          ---    12.6m       100.o  8.90g           ---      11.48     1O0.0
M I t6OE                ---        ---        ---      ---         ---        ---        8. .o--              ---         ---       4.7      ---       ---        -.-        8.86      ---
FIATIVI4'S $WM OF
CGM  UrT m/           _-_        ___       10.TI M     _-        .__         _-_      12.66       ---       ---                   11.06     ---                              9.8A      ---
MME:        n.m.  ., not   dmhl.                                                                                                                                     P
Do *    d   tota t udg       irt g7o.i09 at woa*f rote of 4.6 porcent



- 112 -
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 9
Table 3. SECONDARY EDUCATION UNIT COST ANALYSIS
A.   Budget Distribution, 1986
TSh M      Percent   Observation
Total Secondary Education                 753.4        lOO.0
1.  Teachers                              176.0         23.4    2,972
Teachers at
TSh 59,2001
annum
(Teacher/stud
ent ratio
1:14.6)
2.  Non-teachiug staff                     95.2         12.6    By deducation
from total
salaries (54?
of teachers'
salaries)
3. Materials (school materials and
laboratory equipment)                 37.8          5.0    TSh 870 per
student
(Total 43,000
students)
4.  Boarding                              369.2         49.0    Number of
boarders
34,400 (80)
5.  Other                                  75.2         10.0    Including
services for
running the
workshops
Recurrent Unit Costs TSh 17,400
B. Income
Present        Proiected
1.  From Boarding                           68.8          68.8
2.  From student fees                        4.5          27.1
3.  From ESR Activities                     23.9          47.8
Total                                  97.2         143.7
Per Student TSh                       2,260         3,340
Net Recurrent Unit Cost              15,140         6,960



- 113 -
ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 9
Table 4. PROPOSED CHANGES AND REPERCUSSIONS ON BUDGET
1. Teachers (reduce teacherlstudent
ratio to 1:25. 1,730 teachers at
TSh 59,200)                          102.4      22.9
2. Non-teaching staff (keep same pro-
portion with teaching staff - 542
of teaching staff salaries)           55.3      12.3
3. Materials (+201 for quality improve-
ment. TSh 1,060 per student)          45.5      10.2
4.  Boarding (reduce by 502)              184.6       41.2
5. Other (-20? savings on running
workshops)                            60.2      13.4
Recurrent Unit Cost: TSh 10,400
Table 5. COST RECOVERY MEASURES
Present    Proposed
Situation Changes
1.Changes (TSh per year)
Boarding                         2,000       4,000(double)
Day students with lunch            700       1,400(double)
Day students without lunch         350         700(double)
2. Number of Students
Boarding (80?)                  34,400      17,200(reduce to 40S)
Day students w/out lunch (10) 4,300        12,900(increase to 30?)
Day students with lunch (102)  4,300        12,900(increase to 30S)
3. ESR Activities                    23.9        47.8(double through
intensification and
systematization)



- 114 -
ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 9
Table 6: A FOURTH SCENARIO IN WHICH SALARIES ARE TRIPLED
Sconarica for the your 2000
Sconario 3 (frco Tabla 2.2)          Scfnerio 4
Peroonal
Ecl utento'
Share of                Covernaont       un t        Oovern ent       Unit
ludget.    Projected    Rocurrert    Recurront       Recurrent    Recurrent
1967     Enrolloonta  Expanditure   Expendituro    Expenditur,  Expenditure
(1)                     (TSh M)        CM)           CrShM)         (rsh)
Primary Education          61.9   58473.250       6S834           1.249        18,021          3,292
Secondary Education        22.0       334,709      1,674           n.a.         2.410           n.a.
Public                     22.0       19S.900      1.674         12,500         2,410         16,000
Private                       -       200800        --             n..           ---            n..
University Education        WI          6S900      1,311        190,000         1,786        256,780
Oher                       16.e          ---       1.674           ---          2,386           --
TOTAL                       --      5,638,956     11,493                       24,603           ---
AISMAL S     CE                        --- 3--     a.            ---            0.1
MerATION'S SWAM OF
OMT BUDOr a/            ---          ---         9.61          ---21.01 O
30-haor-90  Noto  n.o. a     not availiblo
-- a not applicable
n/ Aoumao total budset grcoing at annual rito of 4.5 percent.



- 115 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Preamble: the management structure of this Project has adopted as its design premis, that
wherever possible, existing structures within the Government of Tanzania should be employed
in its administation.
1.    Steerin2 Committee:  the overall policy management of the Project will be shared by tNie
Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of 'ducation (MOE) and Local Government Community
Development, Cooperatives and Marketing (MLG), acting through a joint Steering tommittee.
The Steering Committee shall comprise the Permanent Secretaries of the two Ministries- the
Commissioner MOE; the Director of Planning MOE; a representative of the Ministry of F4nance;
a representative of the Planning Commission under the President's Office; and all Directors
in the MOE.
2.    Executive Management:  of the Project shall be under the MOE Director of Planning.
3.    Project Coordination:  will be under the control of the Project Coordinator  who will
be responsible for the overall supervision and control of the day to day progress of the
Project.
(a)   The Project Coordinator shall be a full-time employee of the project, contracted
for its duration
(b)   The Project Coordinator shall be directly responsible to the Director of
Planning, MOE.
4.    Mananement Structure:  the Project Coordinator will be assisted by two Deputy Project
Coordinators one from MOE[ and one from MLG), and two Project Coordinating Teams (PCT) one
within the MOE, and the other within the MLG, Community Development, Cooperatives and
Marketing.
(a)   The MOE Coordinating Team (PCT/MOE) shall consist of eleven members, each a key
representative from the various bodies involved in specific elements of the
Project falling within the province of the MOE,
(b)   The MLG Coordinating Team (PCT/MLG) shall consist of three members, to manage the
textbook purchase and distribution, and the primary rehabilitation components of
the Project.
5.           pro.ect Secretariat:  the Project Coordinator and two Deputy Project Coordinators
will constitute a Secretariat.   The work of the Secretariat in day to day coordination of
Project implementation by the two Ministries will be serviced by its own secretary and filing
clerk.
6.    Overall Responsibilities of the Project Coordinatinq Teams.  Each PCT will be
accountable within its area of responsibility for:
(a)   the detailed planning of each phase of the Project  and modification of the
overall targets, when and if indicated by practical exingencies which may appear
as the Project unfolds;
(b)   the coordinated and logical development of the various   elements of the Project;
(c)   the final selection of the primary schools to be rehabilitated, and the secondary
schools to be assisted, according to the criteria agreed and specified in Annexes
19 and 22 of the SAR;
(d)   the management of all Project funds, and their disbursement through the several
financial channels employed in the Project;
(e)   an annual evaluation and report on the progress of the Project.



- 116 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 8
7.    Composition of the MOE Project Coordinating Team (PCT/MOE):  (The Project Coordinator
is ex-Officio Cnairman oT eacn PCT, but normally will delegate this authority to the
respective Deputy Coordinators)
(a)   Textbook ManuscriPt Coordinator, a senior member of the ICD with        appropriate
experience who wiil coordinate the writing of textbook manuscripts to ensure
their production meets publishing deadlines set by the overall development plan;
(b)   Teacher Resource Centre Coordinator, a senior member of the Department of Teacher
Education, to design and m4nage the in-service training programmes of the zonal
Teacher Resource Centers (TRCs) and be responsible for the overall coordination
of the programme of Workshops, teminars, Conferences and in-service courses to be
supported by the Project;
(c)   Head of the ICD Science Curriculum Team  to coordinate the work of the science
curriculum team of ICD with the curricuium development activities in the TRCs;
(d)   Manager of SEDU, to coordinate the production of equipment prototypes with the
development ot new science curricula, and the flow of raw materials and equipment
to the TRCs for low-cost science apparatus production;
(e)   Examinations Liason Officer, a representative of the National Examinations
Council, with experience in the sciences, to inform the Council of impending
changes in the examination pattern for secondary science and to ensure effective
consultation between the Project science curriculum development tcam and the
Council;
(f)   Textbook Production Manaaer, a senior member of the Book Management Unit (BMU),
(housed in the Department of Planning), to initiate and supervise tenders for the
publishing, and printing of textbooks within the Project programme;
(g)   MOE Research Proaramme Coordinator, a research member of the Department of
Planning staff to organize and coordinate the Project research grogramme by
University of Dar es Salaam (UDS) consultants. This officer will also be the
Project Information Officer;
(h)   UDS Research Program Coordinator, a senior member of the University Educational
Research Bureau to maintain liason with the MOE;
(:)   Civil Works Coordinator, a senior member of the MOE Project Planning Section
(PPS), Department of Planning, to supervise the civil works programme, including
the acquisition of building materials, and equipment needs (other than teaching
equipment) of the Project.
(j)   Secondary School DETF Resources Coordinator, a senior member of the Directorate
for Secondary Education, responsible for assessing the needs of and supervising
the Project support for community initiated secondary schools (including those
which have become government assisted).
(k)   The NETF Board Representative, a representative of the National Education Trust
Fund (NETF) Board, responsible for managing the NETF-funded secondary school
component.
8.    Specific Responsibilities of Members of the PCT/MOE:
(a)   The Textbook Nanuscript Coordinator will be responsible for the following
activities:
(1)   Primary texts: the overall development of new series of textbooks and
teacher guides in Kiswahili, Health and Livelihood, Social Studies,
English, Science, and Mathematics.
(2)   Phase I: (1990-92), the finalization of manuscripts currently being
processed through the ICD in Stds. III-VII English, Science, and
athematics.
(3)   Phase II: (overlapping phase I, 90-96) the coordination of development
work, field work, and finalization of manuscripts for new series (grades



- 117 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 8
I-VII), in Kiswahili, Health and Livelihood, Social Studies, English,
Science, and Mathematics,
(4)   after finalization  the submission of manuscripts to the Commissioner's
Office for approvai, and the delivery of approved manuscripts to the BMU
Textbook Production Manager for organization of pub,lcation and printing.
(5)   Secondary texts:  the overall coordination of an ICD review and revision
of the current '0" level series in Kiswahili and the various social
sciences into two coherent series.
(6)   Additionally, the ICD will select from a sample of titles available from
African countries the most appropriate series for mathematics, english,
and 'Junior secondar.Yl integrated science. For the selected series, the
BMU Textbook Production Manager will assist the ICD to obtain reprint and
adaptation rights.
(7)   The Textbook Manuscript Production Coordinator will coordinate the
revision of the selected series in consultation with the subject teams of
the ICD.
(8)   All five of the revised series will be published by following the
procedures outlined above for primary texts.
(9)   The ICD in consultation with the Directors of Primary and Secondary
Education, and in accordance with the budgetary constraints of the Project
outlined elsewhere, will prepare lists of approgriate reference books for
primary and secondary school libraries across the range of subjects
offered in each curriculum.
(b)   The TRC programe organizer will be the responsible for overseeing all activities
involving the TRCs. The Programme Organizer will assist the Science Curriculum
Developer and the Head of SEDU in carrying out their roles where these involve
the TRCs. More specifically, the programme organizer will:
(1)   organize, in consultation with the ICD science team, a number of
"sensitization" seminars for Teacher Training College (TTC) lecturers in
diploma science programmes and for TPC science staft;
(2)   assist, in consultation with ICD and TRC science staff, in the
organization of seminars for teachers in each zone to attend a series of
"hands-on" workshops on the new methodology of the Year I and II
integrated science trials;
(3)   organize, in consultation with SEDU staff, low-cost equipment production
workshops in the TRCs;
(4)   assist in organizing curriculum development teams of local teachers,
identified through the various workshops and seminars, and involved by the
ICD science curriculum team in the development of specific areas of the
new courses;
(5)   assist in the mounting of orientation courses for primary school
headmasters as new series of primary texts are produced.
(c)   The Head of Science, ICD will be responsible for:
(1)   initiating and sustaining a gradual process of science and technology
curriculum reform by involving serving teachers, the TRCs and the ICD in
joint development activities;
(2)   re-editing the selected integrated science materials for Tanzanian
schools;
(3)   introducing the trial use of these materials for Forms I and II in all
secondary schools;



- 118 -
Amnex 12
Page 4 of 8
(4)   organizing an on-going assessment of these trials, leadin  to the design
of new Tanzanian integrated science instructional materials for Forms
and II;
(5)   assisting the Manager of SEDU to establish ard equip the development
laboratory for SEDU at the ICO!
(6)   developing during 1993-96, a new Science and Technology syllaous and
appropriate instructional materials to follow on the integrated science
syllabus developed during the period 1990-93;
(7)   assisting the SEDU manager in the design and field testing of appropriate
low-cost equipment for the integrated science, and Science and Technology
syllabuses;
(8)   together with TRC Programme Organizer, promoting the use of pupil centered
practical methodology using low-cost equipment through a series of "hands-
on" training seminars and production workshops held in the TRCs.
(d)   The flanager of SEDU will be responsible for:
(1)   establishing the SEDU development workshop at the ICD;
(2)   the provision of tools and equipment to the TRCs for the establishment of
equipment production workshops;
(3)   in consultation with the Science Curriculum Team and teachers at the TRCs,
the design, production, and disemination of prototypes of low-cost science
equipment to the TRCs;
(4)   identifying local sources of raw materials required for low-cost equipment
production, and the allocation of stocks to the TRCs;
(5)   the importation of raw materials not available locally, for science
equipment production, and their disribution where required, to the TRCs.
(e)   Examinations Liason Officer, will be responsible for ensuring that the
Examinations Council is kept informed of progress in the development of new
science curricula and the provision of professional examination services where
they are required in these processes. More specifically, he will be responsible
for:
(1)   advising on the appropriate examination patterns and format for the new
curricula;
(2)   assistance in the provision and testing of examination question for the
new curricula;
(3)   establishment of a science question bank by working with the curriculum
teams in the TRCs;
(4)   ensuring the preparation and distribution of annual analyses of
examination results by level, district, subject and sex.
(f)   Textbook Production Manager from the BIU, will be responsible for the overall
supervision of the processes from the completed manuscript stage of delivery of
the completed textbooks from the printer to central go-downs. In cooperation
with the Coordinator PCT/HLG, encourage district school authorities to collect
all primary and secondary books being supported by the Project. He will also be
accountable to the Director of Planning for adherence to the agreed production
schedules. More specifically, he will be responsible for:
(1)   in consultation with the Director of ICD through the Textbook Manuscript
Coordinator, the preparation of annual publishing and printing schedules
based on the readiness of manuscripts for production;
(2)   the arranging of negotiations for licensing to Tanzania, the publishing
and printing of textbooks from outside its borders;



- 119 -
Annex 12
Page 5 of 8
(3)   advertising tenders, the drafting and processing of contracts with
publishers, printers and distributors;
(4)   provision of paper and other materials required for the printing process,
through the SIDA grant, by direct purchase from Southern Paper Rills, or
elsewhere; and its issue to printers against specific contracts;
(5)   arranging payment direct to the publisher on completion of a textbock
contract and the publisher's delivery of the books to a central godown;
(6)   in consultation with the ICD and UD3 Faculty of Education (UDSFE),
arranging the importation of reference books for Primary, Secondary  TTC,
and university library books, according to lists provided by the ICD and
the UDS;
(7)   the preparation and annual revision, of district distribution lists based
on available data regarding target schools (primary and secondary);
(g)   HOE Research Programne Coordinator will be responsible for supervising the
research programme of the Department of Planning, by liasing with the UDS/FE and
the individual agreed research resource persons, to ensuring a free flow of data
and research conclusions between the MOE and the researchers. More specifically,
he will be responsible for:
(1)   in consultation with the Director of Planning and the UDS representative
on the PCT, selecting qualified researchers for MOE topics, and allocating
particular topics to individuals;
(2)   ensuring that amongst other areas specified by the HOE, or suggested by
the UDSFE, the fol owing topics are included in the research programme:
(i) evaluation of the use of textbooks in the classroom, and the use of
instructional time;
(ii) methods used in teaching science and mathemat.cs and their relation
to student achievement;
(iii) unit costs of education, the willingness and capacity of parents
and communities to share these costs, and the mechanisms being used;
(iv) tracer studies of school leavers;
(v) roles and responsibilities of education managers in the decentralized
system;
(vi) preparing computer models which will enable the MOE to investigate
alternative scenarios showing the effects of various policies of financing
primary, secondary, and tertiary education;
(vii) establishing a system for the computerization of demograhic and
other relevant data and preparing presentation formats which will enable
the MOE to identify trends and establish criteria for the location of new
schools, etc.;
(h)   The UDS Research Coordinator will be responsible for:
(1)   ensuring the speedy completion of research commissioned by the MOE, and
the disemination of reports to the appropriate departments;
(2)   arranging during the life of the Project, in consultation with the UDS/FE,
two major international meetings to discuss research results;
(3)   publishing at regular intervals and distributing to all interested
parties, including secondary schools and TTCs, a newsletter summarising
all research findings to date;
(4)   1reparing lists of education reference books for the UDSFE and TTC
ibraries.



- 120 -
Annex 12
Page 6 of 8
(5)   liasing with the MOE Research Cordinator to ensure effective interaction
between the UDS and the MOE.
(i)   The Civil Works Coordinator will be the member of the MOE Section for Project
Implementation responsible for all processes required in preparation of tenders,
purchase and distribution to of building and equipment supplies required for the
secondary school rehabilitation, ICD building, and TRC programmes. more
specifically, he will be responsitle for:
(1)   drawing up bills of quantities, national and at district level, for the
materials, local and imported, required;
(2)   carrying out the approved Procedures for competitive bidding for the
purchase of locally available materials;
(3)   organizing international tenders, directly or through an approved agency
for those materials which need to be imported;
(4)   organizing the distribution of all civil works materials to agreed
rict d    istribution centers, in the correct supplies quantities;
(j)   The Secondary School DETF Resources Coordinator will be responsible for ensuring
adequate liason between the Board of the NETF and the Department of Secondary
Education. He will be specifically responsible for the following:
(1)   liasing with all District Education Trust Funds (DETF) and other community
associations, interested in participating in the assistance programme;
(2)   through the office of the MLG Regional Engineer, arranging for Technical
Supervisors to inspect and assess the value of sunken capital assets
contributed by the community for those community organizations within his
district, and seeking support from NETF;
(3)   ensuring that all work carried out with this assistance and all equipment
purchased, complies with MOE design standards;
(4)   liasing with government aided secondary schools which may be eligible for
assistance;
(5)   organizing the training of DETF managers where required;
(6)   preparing regular progress reports for the PCT and the board of NETF.
(k)   The NETF Board Representative will be responsible for
(1)   informing the Project Coordinator through the Deputy Coordinator MOE of
progress of community funded schools in meeting the standards of WOE for
secondary schools,
(2)   assessing the value of inputs made by a DETF or community in providing the
current school buildings, according to a scale calculated by the Civil
Works Coordinator and agreed by the PCT;
(3)   using the value so obtained to determine the matching NETF financial
assistance to be provided on a one (NETF) to three (DETF) basis;
(4)   working in close cooperation with the Civil Works Coordinator, arrange for
the purchase of building materials and equipment against the consolidated
requirments for the target DETFs each year;
(5)   arranging for the delivery of all materials and equipment to the DETFS
(6) reporting on the growth of the DETF movement
9.    Comaosition of the MLG Coordinatina Team:
(a)   Primarv School Rehabilitation Proaram Coordinator, a senior member of MLG, to
supervise the primary schools rehabilitation programme through District Councils



- 121 -
Annez 12
Page 7 of 8
and DEOs, ensuring that the community plays its full part in the programme, and
by coordinating the role of the Technical Supervisors operating out of the
R  ional Engineer's office, responsible for ensuring the proper and complete
fulfillment of building and othe- contracts to MOE standards.
(b)   Fir.ance Mana e- Primar  Pro ram, a representative of the MLG, accounts section,
lb manager t            , accot   t iTextbook purchase and distribution and Primary
Rehabilitation Programme  through the District Administrative Officers.
(c)   Primary Program Procurement Officer, a miember of tIe MLG procurement section
responsibie tor the overall flow of materials required for the primary school
rehabilitation program.
10.          Specific Responsibilities of the PCT/MLG:
(a)   Primary Rehabilitation Prograr=e Coordinator will be responsible for:
(1)   preparing an annual master plan for the phased rehabilitation of the
primary schmols targeted by the Project Coordination Team for each year
of the Project;
(2)   in consultation with the Construction Management Specialist and the
Coordinator of the [DANIDA] Schools Maintenance Programme, organizing
training schemes for School Maintenance and Rehabilitation Teams (SMARTs)
in districts earmarked for Project support;
(3)   ensuring that the SMARTs will then organize and carry out rehabilitation
programmes in their own districts, on the schools being rehabilitated
under the Project;
(4)   in consultation with the Primary Procurement Officer, preparing a schedule
of the materials required for each annual rehabilitation programme and
arranging for the publication and award of zonal tenders;
(5)   arranging for inspection of rehabilitation work done to ensure MOE
standards are being maintained;
(6)   maintaining records of all works completed, and making progress reports to
the PCT/MLG at regular intervals.
(b)   Finance Manager, Primary Programme, will work closely with the Primary
Rehabilitation Programme Coordinator, and will be responsible for handling:
(1)   the disbursement of funds required to pay for the purchase of materials
obtained by the Primary Procurement Officer;
(2)   the payment of non-salaried costs of training the SMARTs;
(3)   the payment of costs for school furniture (pupil and teacher desks,
blackboards and bookcases), against actual deliveries.
(c)   Primary Procurement Officer, will be responsible for:
(1)   in consultation with the District Engineer, assessing the needs of schools
targeted for rehabilitation each year, and consolidating them into a
schedule of building materials;
(2)   the contracting of material purchase and distribution services where
required, and the subsequent verification of arrival of stocks at
district/regional go-downs.
(3)   ensuring that contractors fulfill their obligations in making deliveries
to schools and disricts in the quantities and at the times required in the
zonal tenders
(4)   liasing closely with the tDANIDA] teams in monitoring progress in the
rehabilitation program.



- 122 -
£a3xz 12
Page 8 of 8
rJEr _mTf  Sl
PSW4NW  SE;rA"                                          ministry of Sn Se4terp -as~t,
Ministry oi Educatio                                     Ceasu;to Devlopmet
-epreeente~I .e o  a.  i       Orativi Pd ncetir
fte,r.eet ive .1  .W C ,
All Direc"rtors - 140
ASCi ccrrawe
(Advisory Role)
R"tit" iof ad Ptiw C
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I Ip OF IO   C O
I~~~~~~~~~mnor of;sr Rolt)o
DEPUrY| PPOJBC COIIIBTO
_4~S    mainagementlu Un;r                            12      ini-U of LecWl O-rn_ent_
Tetboo Productier Mm .r                                       Cwdinetw
_    P   _ Tr gor -.c   Ceran k- 71 r  
-gIn-tituX  ef Cstr;cul.,  O.  |             a       3  ule    of Ll -a_nt  |-erme
Science Curriculu Hn4                                 Fi_am   _mse
_ School la0y it, Dw . Unit        4
I Prur_tOfficer       
Textbook       tptI 
| Cootdntr  "n     |s-dn
r- 
| Unt*tEbof Der as saloon   |
|Reorch Preolroo Ceerd;Ster 
_ Civil %lokePr _t Pow
ICoerdi;"t I
I Ntienol Ewtt;"  Tmt Fund | 0
lkwr4 R.j_Xat;tieI
Socedery &eeli Omr            It1
|Romurce Cl;"Oortc             I



- 123 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
JOB DESCRIPTION
M%ANAGER of SEDU and HEAD of SCIENCE CURRICULUM TEAM
Manager of SEDU
1.      The Manager of SEDU will be in overall charge of the Unit, and will
be directly responsible for all its activities to the Director of ICD.
SEDU's activities will include the following specific objectives:
(a) to respond to the needs of curriculum developers by translating
equipment concepts'into practical, low-cost, educationally
effective apparatus for the teaching of science;
(b) to make decisions on the most appropriate sources, local and
foreign, for the manufacture or procurement of equipment and
consummable materials;
(c)  to coordinate the work of the TRCs in the organisation of
regional low-cost equipment production workshops, and to ensure
appropriate materials and designs are available for this
purpose;
(d) to produce and test prototypes of apparatus designed in the
Unit, and in cooperation with the Bureau of Standards, test
commercially obtained items, whether imported or local, for
their durability and effectiveness;
(e) to evaluate the quantitites of a particular item required
nationally, with due regard to the supply of replacements,
servicing and the stocking of spare parts;
(f) to administer the processes of procurement, storage, repacking
if required, and distribution to schools through the regional
TRC's, according to their pre-determined needs;
(g) in consultation with the ICD Director to draw up an annual plan
of action for the production and procurement of equipment and
consummable materials.
2.      He/she should be a science or engineering graduate with considerable
science teaching experience and evidence in the curriculum vitae of a
practical aquaintance with the construction and improvisation of equipment
from locally available materials. Some experience in the management of
personnel and familiarisation with government procurement procedures would
be an advantage.



- 124 -
ANNEK 13
Page 2 of 2
Head of Science Currictulum Team
1.      The Head of the Science curriculum development team will be
reponsibte to the ICD Director for:
(a) the writing and testing of all science curriculum materials to
be produced by the Unit:
(b) the modifying, editing, and production of any texts or teaching
materials which it is decided to import and print under licence
in Tanzania;
(c) the coordination of the curriculum development activities of
the science teams in the TRCs, ensuring that materials they
produce, if approriate, are incorporated into the relevant
teaching materials being produced by the ICD;
(d) close liason with the manager of SEDU in the design and
production of all equipment for secondary schools and colleges
to ensure that what is produced for the schools corresponds
with the teaching materials being sent out from ICD.
2.      He/she should be a science graduate with considerable science
teaching experience in the secondary schools of Tanzania, and additional
qualification in Curriculum development. Previous involvement in the writing
and/or production of teaching materials for schools would be an advantage.



- 125 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 5
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ICD REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE PROJECT
1.        Background.  The Institute of Curriculum Development (ICD) is
the ultimate source and arbiter of all instructioaal materi&as which have
Government approval for use in Tanzanian schools. The ICD ia also becoming
the central coordinating body for the dvelopment of curriculum materials
and equipment by teachers working in the regional Teacher Resource Centers
(TRC). In the area of school textbook development, the ICD prepares
textbook (pupil editions and teacher guides) manuscripts, conducts try-outs
of these materials in selected schools, revises the manuscripts as
necessary, and obtains the approval of the Ministry of Education for the
printing of these books. The textbook production (publishing and printing)
and distribution processes thereafter pass on to the MOE's Textbook
Production Coordinating Unit. To complement and parallel its role in the
process of textbook provision, the ICD is incorporating into its structure
a School Equipment Development Unit (SEDU), which will provide the
professional and technical services for the design of low-cost science
equipment utilizing local materials and simple technology, in order that
(a) the teachers themselves may be able to produce the equipment using the
limited means at their disposal, and (b) the local industry may be able to
produce the equipment where large quantities are involved. SEDU would also
undertake the production of equipment prototypes for distribution to the
TRCs and teacher trai.ning colleges. The ICD has prepared the details of an
appropriate organizational structure and staffing that will enable it to
carry out the above functions effectively.
2.        The ICD also requires the appropriate physical facilities to
carry out the above functions. The ICD is presently accommodated in
temporary wooden structures with little equipment and no communications
linkageL with the MOE and the regional TRCs. The ICD has no facilities for
the repackaging of chemicals for use in school laboratories, which is among
its responsibilties. It also requires a small print shop to produce the
limited runs of try-out editions of textbooks and curriculum materials.
3.        The development of ICD's facilities would take place over a
period of 5-7 years in pace with its staff development and recruitment
program. The critical phases of curriculum and manuscript development need
to proceed without delay and in order to do its work within an acceptable
enviroment, some refurbishment of the ICD's temporary facilities should be
started, namely, (a) provision of communications, office, laboratory and
workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles, (b) improvement of lighting and
sanitary facilities, and (c) repartitioning of offices to adequately
accommodate its different activities. The building requirements of the ICD
are detailed in the table at the end of this annex. The construction of
the 1CD's new building would be undertaken in a two stage process:



- 126 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 5
Stage 1 would comprise the preparation of a facilities master
development plan for a building that would accommodate the ICD when it
acquires its full staff complement as envisioned in the overall development
strategy; and
Sta.&e 2 would be the construction of ICD's facil-tfes in tuo phasess
ti)  Phase I (within the Project) includes the technical block
and administration wing housing the curriculu. developers,
textbook writers and SEDU's laboratory and workshop,
conference rooms, librarylarchives, and materials storage,
small print shop; and
(ii) Phase II (outside the project) includes the construction of
training and seminar rooms for teachers and other
complementary accommodations.
4.        Requirements.  The ICD9s specific requirements under the project
are as follows:
(a)  Training for Curriculum Developers (CDs).  The CDs roles in the
preparation of education materials include planning,
organization, writing, and design of pedagogical materials. The
lCD's CDs are essentially subject specialists. Very few of the
present staff have had formal training/grounding in curriculum
development, none of them has had formal training or systematic
exposure to the design, preparation and development of teaching
and learning materials. Most of the present CDs acquired
curriculum development skills and preparation of instructional
materials experience were self-taught and improved through trial
and error. The proposed overseas training under the project
(about 8 staff months) would be in the areas of curriculum
design, instructional materials design, preparation and
development. In addition, about 24 staff months of expatriate
technical assistance in the same areas are proposed.
(b)  Curriculum Writers' and Editors' Workshops.  The ICD plans to
produce 100 manuscripts (MSS) by 1990 at the rate of 20-25 MSS
In order to produce the MSS, ICD would organize about 50
writers' workshops, half of which will be for writing and the
other half for editing. The ICD has identified the venues for
the writers' workshops, which are conducive to their work.
Writers' workshops will be held in Arusha, Tanga, Iringa, Mbeya,
Morogoro, Kibaha, Dodoma, Tabora and Mvanza. Each workshop will
run for one month. The cost per writers' or Editors' workshop
are estimated as follows:



- 127 -
AMNE= 14
Page 3 of 5
(i)   19 writers x TSh4000 per diem x 30 days   T TShl,200,000
(ii)   Transport for writers                     - TSh  126,000
Sub-Total   - TSh",320 000
Cost of 50 workshops:
1,320,000 x 50 - 66,000,000=  =  US$482,000
(iii)   Total cost of stationery for one writers' workshop
i.e., paper, typing ribbons, etc. = TShlO,00O
Total stationery cost for 50 writers' workshops
10,000 x 50 - TShSOO,000        USS 3,650
(c)  Field Pre-testing and Piloting of Materials.  The ICD expects to
try out on the average 20 MSS per annum. CDs are expected to
visit a representative sample of pilot schools which are
scattered all over the country in order to evaluate results and
establish users needs. The average man-days of monitoring per
CD is 30 days per year. The cost of accomplishing the
monitoring task is:
(i)   55 CDs x 30 days x TSh4000 per dtem   -   6,600,000.-
(ii)   55 CDs x TShl2000                       -     660,000.-
TOTAL     -   7,260,000 TSh
(d)  Phase I construction of new ICD building (details are shown in
the table below) which would include the following facilities$
(i)   Offices for administrative staff
(ii)   Offices for curriculum developers/writers
(iii)   Conference and seminar rooms
(iv)   Laboratories and SEDU workshop
(v)  Audiovisual unit
(vi)   Library
(vii)   Home economics unit and staff canteen
(viii)   Rest, utility and maintenance rooms
(ix)   Materials storage facilities



- 128 -
ANNU 14
Page 4 of 5
No.  : Area In Sq.Mts.:
Accoamodatlon              :Capa- : of  :      ---------                Remarks
:city  .Unlts :p.r unit  Total  :
:PHASE I DEVELOPMENT: (under the Pr@joct)                          I
1.00 TECHNOLOY AREA
* 1.o0  Y  So                :      :      :        :         :                                :~~~~Z  1
1.01 Curriculum writers offices                I :  12 :  10.0 : 120.0 :
1.02 Consultants Room                     2   2 :  16 :  10.0 : 160.0 :
1.03 Curriculum writers room                  10 :   I : 100.0 : 100.0 :Large open space, writers
:                                 statior, arranged in cubicles
with partitions *t eye level,
:      :      :        :        : with 2 long work tables
1.04 SEDU workshop                                    1    100.0 : 100.0 :Wlth work benches for machine
:  tools, storage for equipmont
:  materials, blackboard, outlets
for water, glctricity, gas;
: :      :        : adequate lighting, ventilation
1.05 Sieince Laboratory                   :           1    100.0 : 100.0 :Goeneral sclence, biology,
:physics. With 2 preparation
:areas, storoge for equipment
and materials, blackboard,
:outlets for electricity, gas
and water. Designod as
:multi-function facility
1.06 Library                                  20 :   1    100.0    100.0 :Reading area for 20, stack room
f for 5,000 volumes and samples
:  of ICD publications.
:1.0  Audiovisual unit/language laboratory:      :   1 : 100.0    100.0 :With dark room, work roa for
:  preparing audiovisual aids,
:  materials storage (videotapes,
:  cassettes, film), cubicles for
:  audio/language lessons
1.08 Chemical repacking/storage           :                 100.0    100.0 :Wlth area for repackaging
chemicals for distribution to
schools, TRCs
1.08 HoRe economices unit                             1     90.0    90.0 :Facllity is not intended for
food preparation, but for
:  designing lessons taught in
:  classroom (handicreft, sewing
:  home management
1.10 OIscussion roose                         8 :   3       386.0 : 108.0 :For group sesaions among writers:
a: nd curriculum developers.
: Rooms arrangd to permit eccom-:
:  modation of larger groups
1.11 Print shop                                  :   1      40.0    40.0 :
S:btotal --                                            11:---
Subtotal                   :::1118 :
_____-  - - - - - -                                                           ---------------------------------_ ________________________



- 129 -
AM=U 14
Page 5 of 5
No.    Arms in Sq.Mto.:
Acce_ datlon               ;Capa-   of   -        ----:                Raemrks
:city  :Units :p.r unit Tot l
2.00 ADMINISTRATIVE AREA
:                               :      :      :        :        :                                 :~~~* 
2.01 Director's off;e                               I ;   ;  3O 0.    o
2.02 Dputy Orect"rn  office                    1 :   1    20.0    20.0
2.03 Sc0rry/receptIonia/rptloo                2      1     20.0    20.0
2.04 Adon;et/records/accounting unit          a 8    1    00.0    00.0 'With fWin9 area
2.06 Staff conferece room                :  16       1     50.0    60.0
2.00 Archives                            .I                10.0    10.0
2.07 Office supplies                                 I     10.0    10.0
.00 UTILITIES/SERVICES
.01 R.stroeoe/locker rooms                                60.0    80.0 :Areas to be distributed as
appropriate between staff and
visitors
3 .02 Util`tie./m&lnt.nance/cleaning                       30.0    80.0 :With clop sink, storege of
cleaning materials, etc.
3.04 Staff canteen                                         60.0    60.0 :With serving unit
8.06 Service personnelo' lockers                            40.0    40.0
SUBTOTAL PHASE I:
Carryover provious page                              1118.0
This page                                            410.0
Net Ares Phase I                                  1528.0
Circulation/walls-      353:                         634.8
Total Gross Arms                                  2002.8 :Squaro moters
:~~~~~~------------ ----- ----- ---- ----z---- : ---:--:-- - - ---- ---------------
PHASE II OEVELOPMENT: (outside of Project)        :
4.00 TRAININO FACILTIES
4.01 Clossroom/lcture/demonstratlon    :  30       6     60.0 : 860.0
4.02 Multi-purpose conference hall       : 200       1   100.0   800.0 :With facilties for audiovisual
:preientotions
4.03 D.monstratlon laboratory                30      2     00.0    1 10.0O
4.04 Expanslon of library facility                        100.0   100.0
4.05 Expansion of staff offices                           160.0    1 C0.0 
4.06 Display/Sales of teaching materials             1    30.0    30 0.0
4.07 Public lobby/reception area                           80 0     80.0
4.00 Expansion of tolelt facilities             :         :   00    50.0 O
4.00 Expansion of utilIties/storage                        20.0     20.0 :
4.10 Expansion of canteen                                  60.0    60.0
--------  --    ---------           ----  ----    ---------  ----- ------:- ::------:-------------
SUBtOtAL PHASE II:                  :      :
Net ares Phase II                                   1310.0:
Circulation/wslls-      asx:                         4 5 46.5 
Total  rous Area                  s                 1795.5
:------------- --:-- ------ :  :-- --:



- 130 -
ANNMX 15
Page 1 of 5
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REXABILITATION PROJECT
STEPS TN IMPROVING SCIENCE TEACHING
Tentative Overall Development Plan.  This detailed development plan
would be subject to refinements during project implementation. This tentative
plan is divided into (a) Phase I (three years) - establishment of TRCs,
production of equipment, and revision of curriculum for Forms I and II, and
(b) Phase II (two years) - revision of curriculum Forms III and IV.
PHASE I
STAGE I - 6 months
Objective: Establish basic administrative and funding machinery.
Activities:
(a)   In consultation with the MOE, set up a small steering committee and funding
arrangement;
(b)   Advertise for, and appoint local and external technical, teaching and
administrative assistance staff for Teacher Resource Centers (TR3);
(c)   Initiate orders for resource center support/mobile workshop vehicles and
equipment.
STAGE II - 6 months
Objective: Plan and execute programme for sensitization seminars.
Activities:
(a)   Importation of science kits and teaching materials (e.g. Zim-Sci kits,
appropriate materials from Ethiopia, Kenya, etc.) for the ten TRCs;
(b)   Issue of contracts for seminar resource persons (serving teachers with
experience on the Zim-Sci programme, members of Zim-Sci development team,
etc.);
(c)   Arrange and carry out seminar programme in each TRC;
(d)   Negotiate secondment of teachers identified through seminars to the TRCs.
STAGE III - 12 months
Objective: Plan and implement physical resource up-grading programme for TRCs.
Activities:
(a)   Preparation of building and repair schedules for the TRCs;
(b)   Issue of contracts for building and repair work;
(c)   Order tools and equipment for the TRCs.



- 131 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 5
STAGE IV - 6 months
Objective: Planning for equipment production, development of prototypes
Activities:
(a)   In consultation with the ICD, select, design, and arrange production of
prototypes for the initial teacher production workshops at the TRCs;
(b)   Place first orders for workshop materials (local and imported).
N.B. Stages II - IV are intended to be concurrent, the overall objective being
that at the end of the first twelve months of the project, it will be
possible to organize teacher orientation and equipment production seminars
at the TRCs during the following year.
STAGE V - 4 x 1 weeks over 1 year, during school vacations
Objective: Teacher orientation and equipment production workshops
Activities:
(a)   In consultation with the Directorate of Teacher Training, mount prograsme
of 4 x 1 week seminars at each zonal TRC;
(b)   Teacher production of equipment to prototype designs, under guidance from
TRC technical and teacher assistance.
STAGE VI - 12 months
Obiective: Initiation of Junior Secondary curriculum development network
Activities:
(a)   In consultation with ICD science staff, arrange three day seminar for all
TRC science staff and seconded teachers to decide on syllabus development
outlines and to apportion subject areas to zonal teams.
N.B. Stages V and VI are planned to run concurrently
STAGE VII - 1 week
Objective: Junior Secondary curriculum review conference
Activities:
(a)   ICD staff, subject panels, and TRC teams, to review syllabus work to date
and begin liaison with Examination Council.



- 132 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 5
STAGE VIII - 12 months
Obiective: Finalization of Junior Secondary curriculum, preparation of
examAnation format and specimen questions
Activities:
(a)   ICD consolidation of syllabus submissions by the TRCs;
(b)   Preparation and trials of draft teacher guidance and pupil materials by
TRC teams;
(c)   Submission of above to ICD for consolidation and editing;
(d)   In consultation with Examination Council, preparation of examination format
and draft questions.
STAGE IX - 12 months
Objective: Completion of Junior Secondary equipment provision
Activities:
(a)   Delivery of equipment;
(b)   Repair and consolidation work in each zone through mobile workshops.
N.B. stages VIII and IX are intended to run concurrently
STAGE X - 1 week
Objective: Science Teachers Conference, presentation of new Junior Secondary
Curriculum to science teachers.
Activities:
(a)   Invite all secondary science teachers to discuss the implementation of the
new junior secondary science curriculum, and to begin planning the shape
of a new 0-level syllabus.
PEASE II
STAGES XI and XII - 2 years
Obiective: Revision of years three and four syllabus (0-level).
Activities: Unplanned at this stage



- 133 -
ANNEX 15
Page 4 of 5
Summary Table of Development Plan
STAGES            Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5-6
I>
TI   ~-----------
III     ~~~~~
IV       ----_________>
V                       _     -
VI
VII                                   >
VIII                                   ------------>
Ix                                   ---___--_>
x                                               >
XI                                                ----------------------->
XII                                                ----------------------->
EVALUATION SCHEDULE
EVALUATION I
Project time:     One year into Project
Evaluation areas:
(a) Has effective administrative and funding machinery been established?
(b) Have appropriate assistance staff been appointed to the TRCs?
(c) Have sensitization seminars been carried out, and if so, how effective
where they?
(d) To what extent has the physical resource upgrading programme for the TRCs
been achieved?
(e)  What is the transport capability of the Project at this stage?
(f) How complete is the delivery of equipment and materials to the TRCs at this
stage?
EVALUATION II
Proiect time:     Two years into Project
Evaluation areass
(a) How successful have the teacher orientation courses been?
(b) What equipment has been produced and introduced into the trial schools?
(c) What is the current state of the imported equipment provision?
(d) Has a curriculum development network been established and what has it
achieved to date?



- 134 -
ANNEM 15
Page 5 of 5
EVALUATION III (major evaluation - end phase I)
Proiect time:     Four years into Project
Evaluation areas:
(a) Has the Junior Secondary Integrated Science curriculum been completed?
(b) Have the schools received adequate quantities of equipment, and have
imported items arrived?
(c) Has an examination format and specimen questions been prepared?
(d) How well has the integrated science curriculum been received by teacher?
(e) What plans have been formulated for years IV and V of the Project?
INTEGRATED SCIENCE- DEVELOPMENT AND DMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULI
1990 Negotiate rights for Zim-Sci I and II materials
Edit and print trial editions Years I and II
Import trial kits for Year I
1991 Discuss with IDA plan for improvement of science teaching
Sensitization seminars for TRC science teams
Seminpzs at TRCs for teachers involved in trials
1992 Introduce year I trial materials to schools
Import Year II trial kits
Production of Year I re-supply kits
Follow-up seminars for teachers Year I (TRCs)
1993 Introduce Year II materials to schools
Evaluate and revise Year I materials
Print revised Year I materials
Evaluate and revise equipment content of Year I kits
Production of Year I and Year II re-supply kits
Follow-up seminars for teachers Year II
1994 Tanzanian Year I materials into schools
Revised year I kit into schools (via re-supply)
Evaluate and revise trial Year II materials
Print revised (Tanzanian) Year II materials
Evaluate and revise equipment content Year II kits
Production Year I and Year II resupply kits
Drafting of first Integrated Science examination papers for
Junior Secondary level
1995 Tanzanian Year II materials into schools
1996 Revised year II kit into schools (via re-supply)
First Integrated Science Examination, Junior Secondary level
Preparation of draft, new 0-level Science syllabus



- 135 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED REQUIREMENTS OF SCIENCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
.Inputs
A. Personnel
Local personnel:
1.    A nucleus of full-time staff would be required to administrate the
overall program and coordinate the various programs to be undertaken by the
Teacher Resource Centers (TRC).  It is expected that this nucleus of staff
will be the science team in the ICD.
2.    In the TRCs, it is envisaged that science staff of the host colleges
might become involved in the courses to be run, but the main load of equipment
production and orientation courses, curriculum development and interactions
with schools in the zone, will be the responsibility of the staff specifically
appointed to the TRC, i.e. the project funded teaching and/or technical
assistance, working with teachers seconde1 from the schools to the TRC.
3.    It will also be necessary to appoint a local technician to each TRC.
International personnel:
4.    The teacher assigned to each TRC might be a British VSO or individual
from a similar volunteer scheme operated by another agency. Ideally, the
appointee should be of a practical nature, and have some experience of
teaching in a third world country
5.    The technical support to each TRC should be an all-round craftsman,
skilled in the manipulation and working of a wide range of materials (e.g.
wood, metals, plastic, glass etc.)
B. BuildinRs:
6.    The ten zonal TRCs will be located in an existing Teacher Training
College (including MANTEP). Detailed specification for buildings would be
prepared by the Project Planning Section of MOE, and the actual requirements
will be dependent on the results of the survey. Each TRC would haves
(a)   Renovation of existing facilities (plaster, paint, services,
security glass, flooring etc).



- 136 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
(b)   Additional facilties (if none are available), comprising:
2 workrooms (Q 80m2)
1 seminar room (2 60m2)
2 storerooms (# 30m2)
C. Equipment:
7.    The following list of equipment is given as a rough guide to the range
of equipment and materials required.
(a)   Vehicles:  each TRC will require one 4-wheel drive vehicle and
trailer which can be used for visiting schools in the zone, travel
to Dar es Salaam, and the transport of equipment and materials for
production courses. Provision should be made for the inclusion of
essential spare parts, and each vehicle should be equipped with a
small portable generator and full range of handtools.
(b)   Office equipment:  while it would be reasonable to expect the TRC
to share the facilities available in the host college, since
considerable paper work will be generated in the preparation of
materials for teachers, it will be necessary for each center to be
equipped with its own typewriter, duplicator, photo-copier with
enlarge/reduction facility, filing cabinets etc.
(c)   Workshop Equipment (each TRC) s pedestal drill, combination
circular saw/planer, bench grinder/polisher, sander, hand
operated sheet metal bender and guillotine, low voltage power
supply, gaslair torch and compressor, small electric welder,
benches equipped with metal (100mm) and wood (200mm) vises.
td)   In addition each center will require several hand electric drills
(10mm), metric taps and dies, handtools for wood and metal,
soldering irons and multimeter in sufficient quantity to cater for
the estimated group size. (It is suggested that 20 be taking as
an appropriate size group).
(e)   General Equipment (each TRC): overhead projector, 16mm film
projector each with spare bulbs.
(f)   Raw materials for equipment production:  should include wood,
metal (aluminum, brass,copper, mild steel), sheet, rod, and
various sections. Glass tubing - assorted diameters and wall
thickness. PVC rod and tubing, perspex sheet (several
thicknesses), adhesives, solder, brazing materials, copper wire
(various gauges), nichrome wire, (various gauges), machine screws,
nuts, washers, (range of metric sizes), wood and self tapping
screws (assorted sizes), nails, duplicating paper and stencils,
typing materials, photocopying paper, overhead projector pens and
transparencies (for photocopying and hand writing).



- 137 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
(g)   Spare parts for powertoolst drill armatures, sets of brushes,
belts blades etc.
(h)   Zim-Sci kit and 20 sets materials
D.    Operating expenditure (for 10 TRCs based on project life of 5 yrs)
USS
Raw materials, equipment production   100,000
Workshoplseminar expenses               80,000
Total operating costs                      180,000
Initial Teacher Sensitization Seminars:
travel, fees, materials               30,000
Evaluation                            65,000
Volunteer Technical Assistance         990,000
Shared Costs for Volunteer Services   540,000
Fellowships                            300,000



- 138 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 4
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROPOSED TEXTBOOK PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION PROCESS
1.           The following procedurea for the textbook production and distribution proc.nnur,
would be defined In greater dotail during project Implementation, with th  asststance of th
SIDA textbook consultants.
(a)   Textbook manuscripts are produced by ICD, either by authoring or selection and
editing of imported text.
(b)   Manuscript approved by MOE Cownissionor's office.
(c)   BMU Textbook Production Manager drafts the tender for publication.
(d)   Tenders app-'ved by PCT for issue.
(e)   Contracts  oarded by PCT on recommendation of BMU Textbook Production Manager.
(f)   BUUl Text  ok Production Manager oversees publishing and printing procsmee.  In
the case of primary textbooks, in consultation with SIDA, arrange. paper and
print materials delivery to publisher/printer In quantities required to fill
contract.
(g)   On completion of printing, books are delivered to central MOE (Der se Saloam)
warehouse by publisher/printer.
(h)   Publisher/printer submits invoice to PCT together with delivery receipt from
central warehouse with copy to BiU Textbook Production Manager.
(;)   B4U Textbook Production Manager notifies DEOs of arrival of textbooks, *nd
allocation of textbooks to the District based on schools data.
(j)   DEO issues voucher for textbook collection Indicating title and number of books
allocated per district. DEO arranges transport from District reources or local
private contractor for book collection from central warehouse.
(k)   Books collected from central werehouse In Dar os Saloam.  Voucher staped by
central warehouse on supply of books to District transport. (Copy retained by
central warehouse for own records.)
(1)   Books distributed by same transport to schools in district.  Receipt obtained
from each school for books received.
(m)   DEO submits (a) sutamped voucher, (b) copies of receipts from schools, and (c)
transport Invoice to MLO accounts department.
2.           The printing schedules for primary and secondary school textbooks *r* shown In
the following tables.



- 139 -
ANEX 17
Page 2 of 4
TABLE 1: PRIMIRY TEXTBOOK WANTITIES (O00 copies)
-------*-----                  Project Implemontation Period (CY) PROJECT
PRIIMAY SERIES-First Phase:       --                                  - -
Books in Procss .at IC             90/91  91/92  92/9O  98/94  94/96  96/98  96/97
III-IV   VI    VII
Engituh             Text
TOulda    IV    17    10    10
V     10
Scinee              Text                    160   150
TOuld.   III    15    10    10
IV    17
V     10
Mathematics         Text1       V    1SO    150   150
TOuld.     V    10    10    10
Total Text             1SO    300   8o0       0      0      0      0
ToteI TOulde            79    0o   80         0      0      0      0
SUBTOTAL               229   880   88         0      0      0      0
Project Ipplmentation Period (CY) PROJECT
PRIMARY SERIES-Second Phase:                       ---
New Textbook Series                90/91  91/92  92/98  93/94 94/95 05/96  96/97
I    II    III   IV    VI    VI    VII
Ki wMhlII           Text             660   560   460   800   200   160   140
TOulde           19    17    10    18    18    12    11
Health A Livelihood  Text            860   560   480   800   200   160   140
TOulde           19    17    16    18    18    12    11
Social Studies      Text                           480   800   200  10   140
TOutdo                         16    16    18    12    11
English             Text                           480   800   200   160   140
TGulde                         16    16    13    12    11
Science             Text                           480   800   200   160   140
TOulde                         16    18    18    12    11
Mathnmatice         Text             880   560   460   800   200   160   140
TOulde           19    17    16    16    18    12    11
Total Text            1980  1660  2880  1800  1200   900   840
Total TOulde            67    51    98    96    78    72    66
SUBTOTAL              2087  1781  2978  1896  1276   972   906
OtM  TOTAL            2266  2061  8806   1896  1278   972   906
- -------------- - _  _    _- -     -=-
CUMULATIVE TOTAL      2266  4827  7638  9529 10007 11779  12665



- 140 -
iMEX 17
Page 3 of 4
TABLE 2.: SECONDARY TEXTBOOK qUANTITIES (000.)
_______________________b_______~------_------_
SECONDARY SERIES: Reprinted Edition*                                      OUTSIDE
Books to be Adopted for Tansenl-        Project Implementation Perlod (CY) PROJECT
90/91  91/92 92/93 03/94  04/96 90/96 06/97
English      Form I Text            6.0   8.0
TQulde         1.0
Form II Text                 0.0   3.0
TOulde                1.0
forslIl Text                        6.0   8.0
TGuldt                       1.0
Form IV Text                               6.0   8.0
TGulde                             1.0
Integ Science Form I Text           8.0   8.0
TOuldo         1.0
Form II Text                 6.0   8.0
T(ulde                1.0
ForalIl Text                        6.0   3.0
TOulde                      1.0
Form IV Text                        6.0   8.0
TOulde                      1.0
MathematIcs  Form  I Text           6.0   3.0
TGulde         1.0
Form I Text                  6.0   3.0
TOulds                1.0
FormIll Text                        0.0   8.0
TOuldo                      1.0
Form IV Text                               6.0   8.0
TCulde                             1.0
Total  Text           10.0  27.0  88.0  24.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
TOulde         8.0   8.0   4.0   2.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
- ADAPTED-    -- -                         f -0 -7- 2  0   0  0.0
TOTAL ADAPTED SERIES  21.0  80.0  87.0  20.0   0.0   0.0   0.0



- 141 -
ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 4
TALE 2b: SECONDARY TETMOOK QUANTITIES (tOO0)
SECONDARY SERIES: New Edition*                                             OUTSIDE
Five Serles Developod by ICD            Project Implemntation Period (CY) PROJECT
_______________________________________________________________,------
90/91  91/92  92/98  93/94 94/96 96/96  96/97
_________________________--- -_-------_---==:.:
English      Form  I Text                        12.0   8.0   3.0  12.0   3.0
TOuld.                       1.0                 1.0
Form II Text                              12.0   8.0   3.0  12.0
TOulde                              1.0                 1.0
FermIII Text                                      6.0   1.5   1.6
TOuld.                                    1.0
Form IV Text                                             6.0   1.5
TOulds                                           1.0
Integ Science Form  I Text                       12.0   3.0   8.0  12.0   3.0
TOvud.                       1.0                 1.0
Form It Text                              12.0   8.0   3.0  12.0
TOulde                              1.0                 1.0
Forelll Text                                      6.0   1.6   1.6
TOulde                                    1.0
Form IV Text                                      6.0   1.5   1.6
Tould-                                    1.0
Mathematics  Form  I Text                        12.0   8.0   8.0  12.0   3.0
TOuld.                       1.0                 1.0
Form II Text                              12.0   8.0   3.0  12.0
TOulde                              1.0                 1.0
Form!!! Text                                      6.0   1.6   1.6
Touldo                                    1.0
Form IV Text                                             8.0   1.5
Toulde                                           1.0
Ki.vahil1    Form  I Text           12.0   8.0   8.0  12.0   8.0   8.0  i2.0
Tould.         1.0                  1.0                 1.0
Form II Text                 12.0   8.0   8.0  12.0   3.0   3.0
TOuld.                1.0                 1.0
Form!!l Text                        6.0   1.6   1.6   8.0    1.6
TGulde                       1.0                 1.0
Form IV Text                               6.0    1.5   1.5   6.0
TOuld.                              1.0                 1.0
Soc studies  Form  I Text           12.0   3.0   8.0  12.0   8.0   8.0  12.0
TOulde         1.0                  1.0                 1.0
Form II Text                 12.0   8.0   8.0  12.0   3.0   8.0
TOulde                1.0                 1.0
Form!!! Text                        6.0   1.5   1.5   6.0   1.5
TOulde                       1.0                 1.0
Form IV Text                               6.0   1.6   1.6   6.0
TOuldn                              1.0                 1.0
Total  Text           24.0  a0.0  60.0  90.0  78.0  90.0  99.0
TOuldo         2.0   2.0   5.0   7.0   6.0   7.0   7.0
TOTAL NEW SERIES      26.0  82.0  85.O  97.0  84.0  97.0  106.0



- 142 -
ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECTED IMPACT OF PRIMARY SCHOOL TEXTBOOK COMPONENT
ON THE GOVERNMENT BUDGET
1.        Background.  The situation in regard to primary school textbooks
at the present time can be characterized as follows: (a) there are serious
bottlenecks in the distribution of textbooks now ir the system, owing to
the misappropriation of Government funds allocated for their purpose; and
(b) even if the distribution were not a problem so that all books ended up
in pupils' hands rather than sitting in government warehouses, there are
far too few total books to serve the number of pupils in the system owing
to (a) above and to the uncertainty this poses as to whether payments will
be made all the way up the line, from the districts to the distributors,
and then to the printers, the publishers, and the authors. This .nadequate
supply remains true despite the fact that the Government's purchase of
books is subsidized to the extent that all of the paper is provided free
of charge by SIDA (about 502 of total cost). In 1986/87, according to
statistics provided by the MOE Directorate of Planning, the actual
expenditure for textbooks, teacher books and consumable items for schools
only covered about 6.61 of the targetted acceptable level of provision.
In 1988, the annual subventions to districts for these materials was
increased from TShlOO per primary pupil to TSh252. Out of the new
subvention level, TShl52 would be retained at MLG central level, 36X to pay
for a core set of textbooks and the remaining 642 for school stationery and
other teaching materials. The allocation for textbooks (amounting to about
TShl70 million per year) would be sufficient to cover expenditures for the
yearly replenishment of worn out books, but only provided that SIDA would
continue to finance all paper costs.
2.        The figure below illustrates how primary school textbooks are
financed in Tanzania today and how they will be financed in the future.
both under the project and after the project ends. A major objective of
the project will be to increase the stock of textbooks in the system from
the current level of, on average, one book per ten pupils, to one book per
two pupils. This stock will constitute the core provision, which parents
and/or districts will be free to supplement with other funds of their own.
The cost of increasing the stock of books from the present inadequate
level, to the new prescribed level, including the cost of the additional
quantity of subsidized paper, is a one-time cost to be incurred during the
period of the project. Thereafter, the cost of maintaining that stock by
replacing worn-out and/or obsolete textbooks will be lower than the cost
during the project period, but higher than the cost before the start of the
project.
3.        The cost borne by the Government will be gradually increased
over the life of the project. During the first three years, a surplus out
of the annual subventions is expected to accumulate as the new textbook
editions printed during the first three years only would cover the needs of



- 143 -
Ala= 18
Page 2 of 2
students in Standards I-III. This surplus should be deposited in the NLG's
existing Textbook Revolving Fund and used to cover the replacement costs
incurred during the second half of the project period when new editions for
the remaining upper class students are also being published. The
Government's share of the long-term maintenance cost should increase
further (for purposes of this project, the rate of increase was projected
at 5 percent per year) as the subsidized paper is gradually withdrawn. The
rate at which SIDA withdraws its paper subsidy need not be determined at
this point. It will depend on, among other things, the rate at which the
Tanzanian economy improves And Government revenues grow as a resul' of the
Economic Recovery Program.
12/20/89
TSh Million
800 f              ..
400F \
300p -                        i                          -tm
-4-&DA
100pzAKt
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~** ,ot .e.pefid. s 
-100 _                                                       e
-2z0    ll         §§§     
'87 '88 '89 10 '91 '92 '93 '94 '96 '95 '97 '98 '99
I   yoet  Pt      I



- 14A -
ANMEX 19
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS
TO BE REHABILITATED
The primary schools to be rehabilitated under the project would
be selected by a Selection Committee comprising the Project Coordinator
(PC), the Director of Primary Education and the Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Local Government or his duly designated representative. The
selection criteria would be divided into two categories:
1.   Pre-qualifying criteria:
(a) The schools should be in Districts which had not previously been
included under the Seventh Education Project (Credit 1056-TA).
The community has not been a beneficiary of a primary school
construction or rehabilitation programme during the past five
years.
(b) Rural schools should have an enrollment of not less than 150
pupils, those in more remote areas of not le0s than 80 pupils.
(c) The requisite number of teachers to handle the enrollments
should be in place, or guaranteed by MOE.
(d) The community should have an organizationlunit/committee which
can organize and mobilize local resources and labor to undertake
the school rehabilitation and maintenance programme, and which
would be accountable for the .aqterials and resources that would
be provided under the project.
(e) Further to l(d) above, the community should also demonstrate its
readiness and commitment to safeguard and maintain the school.
2.   Prioritising Criteria:
(a) The community should demonstrate to the Committee, evidence of
high community effort and interest in providing its own social
amenities and accommodations for the school teachers. (25? of
schools selected)
(b) The school should show evidence of a high rate of educational
success as demonstrated by the performance of students in
primary school leaving examinations and promotion, repeater and
dropout rates. (25? of schools selected)
(c) Evidence of significant disadvantage ((25Z of schools selected)
(d) The remaining schools (25S) to be selected by the district
council or similar responsible authority.



- 145 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 4
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRIMARY SCHOOL REHABILITATION PROGRAM
1.    Background and Principles of Operationt
(a)   The main objective of this component of the project, is to
establish in each of the 105 districts of Tanzania a trained,
experienced, and equipped School Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Team (SMART). This objective will be achieved through a training
program both pre-task and on-the-job through the rehabilitation of
a selected subset of the schools requiring attention in each
district.
(b)   A total of about 5,200 classrooms, or the equivalent of about 750
primary schools in 85 districts will be repaired over the life of
the project (20 districts were covered during the Seventh
Education Project - Credit 1056-TA). This number constitutes
about 10? of the estimated number of primarv classrooms requiring
rehabilitation.
(c)   It is anticipated that the SMARTs will be utilised after the
project has ended, to complete a national primary school
rehabilitation program, funded by the MLG and/or the communities
themselves (to this end it will be necessary for the MLG to budget
for an increasing proportion of the salaries for the SMARTs as the
project moves towards completion).
(d)   All materials required for the rehabilitation of the classrooms
will be funded through the project.
(e)   Labor resources for the rehabilitation process will be contributed
by the community, while the district SMARTs will be funded on a
contract basis by the project.
(f)   Building material requirements for the rehabilitation process will
be assessed by a PCTIMLG study during Year 1 for the initial 100
schools, and thereafter on review of progress achieved towards the
end of the current year and after the schedule of schools for the
following year has been identified.
(g)   Building materials will be purchased through international
competitive bidding. Schools would be grouped into seven
operational zones which MOE and MLG find the most convenient
grouping for monitoring and supervision. Tenders for building
materials will likewise be package by operational zone. Each



- 146 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 4
contract will include responsibility for delivery to targeted
schools or District Cffices within the zones, according to the
annual schedule prepared by the PCT/MLG
(h)   To enable the SMART' to achieve their function of community
training and supervision, bicycles will be provided by the project
for the exclusive use of the three SMART team members in each
district. It is expected that each SMART member will purchase one
of these bicycles through small deductions from salary over the
period of the project, as provided for in current government
procedures
2.    Implementation:
(a)   During the first year of the project, the SMARTs will be
identified for each of the 105 districts, and given their pre-task
training.
(b)   The PCT/MLG will prepare during the first year of the project a
tentative overall schedule of targeted schools, by zone, district,
and year, selected according to the agreed criteria. This
3chedule will be subject to annual review and modification,
dependent upon progress in the previous year of rehabilitation.
(c)   As a result of the physical inspection by the District Engineer
(MLG), or DEO (MOE) where this is not possible, of the 100 schools
targeted for the first year of the rehabilitation program, the
Primary Program Procurement Officer of the PGTIMLG, in
consultation with the MOE Project Planning Section, will prepare
schedules of building materials required.
(d)   From the above schedule, the Primary School Rehabilitation
Program Coordinator of the PCT/MLG will prepare, issue, and award
zonal tenders for the procurement and delivery of all materials
for the year under consideration.
(e)   Towards the end of the second year of the project and for the
subsequent three years, steps 2(c) and 2(d) will be repeated to
complete the program target
3.    Specific conditions for tenderss
(a)   Contracts include responsibility for purchase of all materials in
the quantitites required, and delivery to the schools named on
the tender schedule. (This may be amended through consultation
with the District Engineer, to delivery to district offices where
school deliveries are impractical).
(b)   Deliveries will be made according to the schedule supplied with



- 147 -
ANNU 20
Page 3 of 4
each tender in two phases, i.e. during the two *dry seasonsO' to
avoid prolonged storage of materials subject to deterioration
(e.g. cement).
4.    Accountability Procedures, (delivery of materials)s
(a)   Detailed receipts will be issued to the contractor by the
headmaster or other responsible authority against each delivery of
materials made.
(b)   The contractor will submit such vouchers in batches of not less
than ten, to the District Engineer who after scrutinising them for
validity, will pass them to the Deputy Project Coordinator
(PCT/MLG), for processing and direct payment to the contractor.
5.    Accountability, (classroom rehabilitation process):
(a)   The work carried out by the SMARTs will be under the supervision
of the MLG District Engineer.
(b)   On completion of the work at a particular school, the District
Engineer will prepare a 'certificate of completion' which will be
passed to the Project Coordinator via the deputy Project
Coordinator (PCT/MLG).
6.    Project Scopet
The regional distribution of primary schools to be rehabilitated under
the project is shown in the following table.



- 148 
ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 4
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS TO BE REHABILITATED
(Costs in US$'000s)
UNIT COSTS  Cdames:   1.5
(USSOGO)    Latrlse:   07
NATURIALS    11.t :   0.56
ONLY         T.sMov:   0.88
M W   : 165 MiUER W=m  UMIE           Rehlish I Itetton Cost 061000)  :Tot. I
REGON        COOMI :  OP    OF    OF    OF                                               Na---------.-:R~bo
SWOMA : CAMR LAlUN  liEU. TN=M   : CL            LAMMN  W/WJ. THOUS    :Bse. Cost
I ArUiN                :      4      0     6    47:    148.1   0.5   5.2    16.6:    170.4:
2 DhE.8SALAAM          :   28       It    Is   11:    861.6   7.9   6.8          1.6:    415.5:
82COD"                      Si28    84    84   116:    851.8  25.1  20.1    86.4:    486.0:
4 IRINS                      M 0    40    46   15N        4681.1  84.6  27.0    50.7:    676.5:
KAMMA                      23      48    45   141:    427.8  82.7  26.2    46.7:    582.6:
OKxiGOmA                    146    17    1?    71          M2.6  12.1   9.0    24.8:    267.6:
7ILIUXAIIJARO              Inc0   40    40   60          1078.   85.4  26.8   215.0 :   2258.1:
a LaS!                 .      7      6     6    1to         6.5   6.0   4.0       0.2 :      7s.5:
9NR mm                      246    84    14   128         872.$  24.0  10.0    40.6:    456.4 :
10 EPA                       9 06    a6    38   454  :  187.1  27.0  22.4   150.0  :1530.8 
IIUUOOROO                     at28   41    41   110       $82.6  29.3   2.0    809.7?        456.0 
12 MTWJAR:   14S    U6    2                       71:    217.1  20.1  10.8    28.7:    277.4 :
is mWANA                     $I81    48    48   157  : 477.7  81.5  21.2    52.2  :    6.7 
14 P38                       to12    27    S7    64:    104.0  10.7  15.6    21.2:    250.7 :
15 R4WCWA               .    6       17    17    41  : 126.1  12.6  10.1    13.7?            161.5 
is rImI                     n17      11    81    s6:    266.0  22.7  16.1    29.2:    887.0 :
17 UIINANOA                   10      2     2      5:-    15.0   1.0   1.4         1.0:       10.0:
is sINSoA                     at8     0     6    16:-    40.0   4.6   8.7          5.8:       62.5:
19 TARSA                      to1     2     2      6 :      14.6   1.8   1.1       1.6:       16.5:
20 TANSA                      M 04         40   152:%   462.188.  82.6            50.5:    572.5:
U ZANZI3R                      0      0     0      0 :       0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0:        0.0:
TOTAL. MATERIAL    0  :5216   586   586  2618  :  7? .$  10.0  812.    66.6  :  0506.0
UNIT COSTS    ClImm      0.46
(USIOGO)    La4e)..    0.26
LABOR OILY   10.116 I    0.28
T.Ngug     0.06
MWAm       iiAn  MIEP WMiE  16055   : esti I )tst)oe Cost (US8000)      :Tt 
REGI0N       COWTV/ :  OP    OP    OP    OPF                                             Rehab
SCHOOLS : COWU LAThIS hULL T1EJIE   CLEAN   LARNS W/MUL T.14013   :S3ee. Coot
lIANAPA                s      4      0     0    47:        42.0   1.8   1.1       8.0 :    51.2 :
I DMESALUAAM                Su28    11    Is   116:   106.5   2.6   2.5            0.90:    128.7:
S CODOMA                    So28    84    84   Its0:   105.4   6.6   9.0          0.6 :    181.0 :
4 IRINO                      M      46    46    158       186.0  312.2  11.2    12.7 :   175.0:
S KA4ERA.                   261    40    46   141:    2*6.2  11.4  10.5    11.7 :   101.6:
OKIgOamA                    146    17    17    78:         6.5   4.2   8.0        0.1:       30.7 :
7 KILIANMJARtO         a   80       46    40   080  a    03.1  12.4  11.8    54.0  :    60.7 
LDItS                 a    8        I     I    10:        10.0   2.1   1.0       1.5:       22.5 :
eMM                    a   146    84    84   S*U          111.#   6.7   6.0    10.2:    1386.7:
to ETA                       M      86    86   464 :   418.7   0.6   6.0    87.7:    470.2 :
it XnoRoO                    in18    41    41   110 :   106.6  10.4   0.5          0.0:    180.7 :
lIUVTWABA               a 148    26    26    71:            05.    7.1   6.5       5.0:       34.7:
IS WN2A                      M 1    40    48   157:    14084   11.0  10.1         18.1:    177.5:
14 PWANI                     M 2     27    27    64:        58.2   0.  06.8        6.8:       76.7:
XisUM am32    17    17    41:                               87.5   4.4   4.0       8.4:       40.4:
IOIsMINAA                    176    81      1    36:        30.1   7.0   7.8       7.8:    102.6:
17 UIInNYMS                   10      2     2      6:        4.5   0.0   0.6       0.4:        0.1:
is SINSID                  a 82             0    10:        14.7   1.0   1.5       1.8:       1t.1:
leIOASOR                :     10      2     I       5:       4.4   0.5   0.4       0.4:        5.7:
I0OTANA                      so80    46    46   152        186.    .11.   10.0    12.0:    178.5:
21 ZMIZ2DR                     0      0     0      0:        0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0:        0.0:
MOAL LuAW         0      MM2  5n6   5U6  2318     1860.8  186.0  125.1   217.0  a26.2
TOAL POJECT
NATERUM3& LAIN           $1M   5so    526  2618    10314.0  517.0  483.0  1064.60    12865.3a



- 149 -
ANNEX 21
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT CONSULTANT
1.        The consultant firm will provide services to the Project
Coordinating Team (PCT) and the MOE Project 2lanning Section
(PPS), and assist, inter alia, on the following:
(a) developing a training program for the School Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Teams (SMARTS).
(b)  coordinating all school rehabilitation implementation aspects
with central and local government agencies; assisting in
organizing district level SMARTS in preparation for the
rehabilitation works under the project.
(b) assist the PCT and PPS in preparing bidding documents for the
procurement of school building materials, bid evaluation,
contract management, and programming of the delivery of building
materials to the districts.
(c) preparing monitoring instruments, assessing performance at the
end of each phase of the rehabilitation program, and preparing
quarterly progress reports on the rehabilitation work performed.
(d) preparing the annual school rehabilitation work plans, shedules
of procurement and deliveriy of materials and budget estimates.
2.        The consultant firm will be staffed, inter alia, with the
following experts:
(a) Civil Works Manager/Engineer, responsible, inter alia, for:
preparation of training programs for SMARTs, and in close
collaboration with the local counterparts (in the PCT/MLG and
PPS), assist in the coordination of all administrative aspects
related to project implementation, including staff management,
transport and logistics.
(b) Contract Specialist, responsible, inter alia, for: reviewing
engineering designs and surveys, preparing bidding documents,
carrying out all tender procedures, assisting the local
engineers in discharging their responsibilities under the
project, and providing advice and technical support to the PCT
and local staff to strengthen their capabilities in procurement
and contract management.
(c) Accountant, responsible, inter alia, for developing accounting
procedures for the PCT, organizing, ensuring and overseeing all
accounting aspects related to civil works, and providing advice
and technical support to the local staff to strengthen their
capabilities for programming and monitoring civil works.



- 150 -
ANNEX 22
Page 1 of 4
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
COMMUNITY FUNDED SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Background
1.          A striking feature of Tanzania's secondary education system is its
small size. The gross secondary enrollment is only 3 percent as compared with
the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa -- only Rwanda has a lower ratio.   Only 5.5
percent of primary school leavers in Tanzania enter secondary schools. As a
result of this small system, there is a serious scarcity of qualified middle-
level manpower -- only 4 percent of the labor force has had secondary schooling,
and among occupational categories (such as machine operators and clerical
workers) normally filled with higer-level workers, the proportion of Tanzanians
who have had some secondary education is only 32 percent. The exceedingly low
educational attainment depresses the productivity of the labor force.
2.          Causes for the slow development of secondary education in the past
were varied. To begin with, as part of the Government's concern for equity,
top priority was given to the provision of universal primary education.
Secondly, and also for egalitarian reasons, the Government decided to nationalize
most schools, thereby making it difficult for even children of the elite to
purchase better education by turning to the private sector (although, a small
number of elitist schools did manage to survive, especially in urban areas).
The Government also under-estimated the requirements of the economy for trained
middle-level technicians and for secondary graduates needed to fill places in
tertiary institutions. This policy of non-expansion, perhaps defensible in the
1960's and the early 1970's when the formal emloyment sector was small, was
carried unchallenged into the 1980's, with too little forward analysis and
minimal effort to interpret feedback from the growing economy.
Government Strategy for Secondary Education
3.          Following the recommendations of the Presidential Commission on
Education and as described in the report - Educational System in Tanzania Towards
the Year 2000 (October 1984), the following guidelines, among others, were
defined for the expansion of secondary education:
(a)   a feasible programme of expansion will be drawn up which will make
it possible for not less than 15 percent of children completing
primary education to enter government secondary schools by the year
2000;
(b)   any imbalances which exist in the allocation of places to girls and
boys in secondary and higher education will be removed;
(c)   the Ministry of Education (MOE) will issue guidelines and designs
for buildings that could be constructed by the people themselves



- 151 -
ANNEX 22
Page 2 of 4
through the use of locally available building materials. Through
cooperation with District and Town Councils, the people will be able
to build new schools in accordance with designs and plans that will
be issued by the MOE from time to time;
(d)   emphasis will be put on the construction of day secondary schools;
(e)   the status of and quality of education given in community funded
secondary schools will be promoted and improved by:
-     pormitting only the capable agencies and organizations to
bu'ld and manage non-government secondary schools in conformity
witl the guidelines and regulations of the MOE;
-     Government issue of guidelines and regulations for the role
of parents and students with regard to the cost of education
in community funded schools; and
-     permitting District and Town Councils which have the ability
to do so, to give subventions to non-government schools after
consultations with the owners of the schools.
The Secondary School Component of the Project
4.          In line with the Government's Strategy, the project aims to mobilize
community resources in the development of secondary education by supporting and
providing incentives to community self-help efforts, such as those managed by
District Education Trust Funds (DETF) and Parents Associations, to finance the
establishment of day secondary schools. A National Education Trust Fund (NETF)
will be established, to provide matching financial assistance, to the capital,
investments of DETFs and communities in building day secondary schools.
5.          The Trust Fund will be supported initially by a grant-in-aid from
the NORAD education sector programe for Tanzania
6.          The NETF resources will be provided on a three (from community/DETF)
to one (from NETF) basis to finance the completion of the schools in accordance
with MOE's minimum prescribed standards for day secondary schools. These items
include:
(a)   acquisition of basic equipment (science laboratory, school office,
building maintenance);
(b)   library books, reference materials, and pedagogical aids (e.g. maps,
charts, journals, encyclopedia, etc.);



- 152 -
AhNEX 22
Page 3 of 4
(c)   local short term training in administration/accounts keeping for
the DETF manager/adminstrator and the school directorlhead teacher;
(d)   in-service training of the school faculty;
(e)   procurement of specific building materials not manufactured locally
to complete the school office, teaching and laboratory blocks (e.g.
finishing hardware; plumbing fixtures and fittings; roofing sheets;
and electrical fixtures and fittings)
Eligibility Criteria
7.          The availment of NETF funds is conditioned on the secondary school's
meeting the following criteria:
(a)   A formally/legally established/constituted organization (e.g. DETF,
Parents Association) owns and manages the operation and maintenance
of the school;
(b)   The school is accredited by the HOE.  A qualified school headmaster
and the teachers are in post.
8.          The following types of secondary schools are ineligible for
for financial assistance from the NETF:
-     Government secondary schools
-     profit-oriented private schools
-     boys secondary schools
-     sectarian schools
In addition, the NETF will not assist schools:
-     in the provision of boarding facilities
-     without the basic physical infrastructure   in place (i.e.
classroom, laboratory, office and sanitary blocks)
Criteria for Determining Level of NETP Financial Assistance
9.          As a general rule, the matching resources from the NETF would be
provided on a one to three basis. The capital contributions of the community
(value of total materials and labor sunk into building the school) would be
assessed, using the Secondary School Building Design Standards formulated by
the MOE, and the current building cost estimates for constructing standard day
secondary schools. These construction cost estimates used as the basis for cost
appraisal would be updated annually by the HOE.
10.         The value  of  the  school construction  already put  up by  the
DETF/community would be appraised in proportion to its status of physical
completion at the time of NETF's receipt of the application for financing.



- 153 -
ANNEX 22
Page 4 of 4
Elements of Organisation and Implementation structure:
11.         The functions of the Trust Fund will be:
i) to consider applications from, and make awards to, District
Education Trust Funds (DETFs) and other community funded day
secondary schools falling within the eligibility criteria (4.1),
ii) to effect disbursement of awards granted, and through its
technical committee, monitor the progress and completion of the
projects for which awards have been made,
iii) to encourage communities to develop District Educatior. Trust
Funds and thus encourage the growth of community funded secondary
schools.
12.         The functions of the Trust Fund will be carried out by a Board of
Directors, assisted by a Secretariat and a Technical Committee.
13.         The Board of Directors shall consist of representatives from the
Ministry of Education, District Education Trust Funds, and other interested
bodies.
14.         The Secretariat shall consist of a full time secretary and accountant
to manage the day to day affairs of the Fund.
15.         The Technical Committee shall be appointed from time to time by the
Board of Directors, and should advise the Board on the appropriateness and
costing of projects submitted for consideration of awards.
16.         The detailed organisational framework and implementation plan will
be finalised by 30 June 1990, at a Workshop to be organised by the funding agency
in consultation with the Ministry of Education, to which representatives of the
Ministry of Education, District Ed-ication Trust Funds and other interested
parties will be invited
Financial Operation:
17.         The Trust Fund will open two bank accounts in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA, one in Tanzanian shillings for local purchases, the other in
forex for the importation of materials and equipment.
18.         The Trust Fund will require an operating budget from its own
resources, to cover office accommodation, salaries for the secretariat, and Board
travel and meeting expenses.



- 154 -                            ANNEX 23
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COST TABLE
(US$ million)
DUTIES    TOTAL
EXPENDITURES                     FOREIGN   LOCAL    TAXES       COST
INVESTMENT COSTS:
Clvil Works
ICD, TRC, School Libraries         1.30      1.60      0.40      8.80
Primary Schools
Building Materials          7.10      7.60      2.00    16.70
Community Labor              --       4.40       -        4.40
NETF Secoandry Schools
Building Materials          0.60      1.00      0.80      2.10
Community Labor              --       0.70       --       0.70
Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles            5.20      0.60      0.20     B.20
Technical Assistance
International Experts              3.60      0.60       --      4.30
Local Consultants                   --       0.90       --       0.90
Studies                            0.80      0.80       --       1.10
Overses Training                   1.00       -         --       1.00
Local Training                     1.10      3.90       -        6.00
Textbooks, Reference Materials
Manuscript Development             0.50      0.60       --       1.10
Primary Textbooks
Paper/Printing             10.90      0.60      0.70    12.20
Distribution                0.20       --        --       0.20
Secondary Textbooks
Paper/Printing              1.30       -        0.10      1.40
Distribution                0.10       -         --       0.10
Library, Reference Books           2.70      0.20       --       2.90
Project Administration                    0.20      1.60      0.20      2.00
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS:           86.60    25.20       8.90    65.60
RECURRENT COSTS:
MOE Recurrent Costs
Local Salaries                      --       0.10       --       0.10
Operational Expenditures           0.80      0.40       --       0.70
Maintenance                        0.20      0.10       --       0.80
MLL Recurrent Costs
Local Salaries                      -        0.10                0.10
Operationol Expenditures           0.10      0.10       --       0.20
Maintenance                         --       0.30                0.80
Community Recurrent Costa
Maintenance                         --       0.20       --       0.20
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS:             0.60      1.80      0.00      1.90
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:              87.10    2B6b0       8.90    67.50
__~~~ 3=                                               =s_



- 155 -
ANNE 24
UNITED REPWUC OF TANZNIA                           Page 1 of B
EDUCATION PUNNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
:           :              IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
:            PROJECT COMPONENT/ACTIVITY        :   UNIT   :------:------:------
:  :        :90/91 :91/92 :92/93 :93/94 :94/95 :s96/8
:-- - -------- - ----       ---- ---------------:------------:--::---: :
:       STRENGTHENIN  OF SECTOR MANAGEMENT                   :         :         :             :
:------------------- ---- - -      
:1.00 Managemnt Training                              :                       :             :
:       International expert.                  :staff months:   a :   8:         :             :
Local consultant.                      :staff months:  24 :  24 :  24 :  24
Seminars for mnagers                   :participants:      : 160 : 160:
Seominars for head teachers/inspectors  :participants:     : 2100 : 2100 : 2100 : 2100 : 2100
:2.00 Informtion Base                                                  :         :
International expert.                  :staff months:   8     12 :   a :
Local consultants                     :staff months:  12 :  24 :  12 :
FProcurement of equipment               X complete :   OX:  20%:   N0S:                :
Printing of reports                        annual          : yes:  yes:  yes   yea:  yes:
Printing of data collection instruments:   annual   :      : you : yes : yes   ye:  yes:
Printing of examination result             annual     yes : yes : yes : yes   yuye         e : y-s
Seminars for data collectors           :  annual      yes : yes : yes : yes   yes : yes :
:3.00 Education Reserch                                                   :      :      :
IDA approval of TOR                     X completo   100:X        :      :
Preparation of major studies                        :                :
Teacher Salaries                      X complete: 100%:         :      :      :
School fees                           X complete           100%:       :             :
Budgetary scenarios                  : X complete :             : 100%X
School maintenance strategy           X complete :          100%:      :
Use of Textbooks                         annual     yos:  yes   yes : yes   yes:  yes:
Methods of moth/science teaching    :X complete                :      : 1OOX:
Educ monagement decentralization     :X complete         :      : 100X:
:~~                                       ~     ~~~~ :  :   : .      :      :      :      :
Procurement of equipment               :X complete    SOX:  50X: 
Procurement of reearch materials       :X complete :  20%:  20%:  20X:  20%:  20X:
:       Preparation of publications                 cots    :         yes :         yes :
International experts                  :stff months:   8 :   B :   3 :   S          a 8
:4.00 Aid Coordination                                                    :                    s
:       International experts                  :staff mcnths:       :   2 :           2 :
Donor coordination eminar                 seminar            y : yess :         : y
:5.00 Pre-investment Study                      :            :      :
:       Preparation of future project          : X complete       O:      :                lOX:
:- - -                                               --- -- --- - - --- --  --- -- --- --



ANNEX 24
- 156 -A--   24
Page 2 of 8
PROJECT IMPLEEENTATION SCHEDULE
IWPLEMENTATION PERIOD
PROJECT COMPONENT/ACTIVITY            UNIT        -:------ :------------ -----
:90/91 :91/92 :92/98 :9a/94 :94/6S :961W
qUtALTATIVE I      SWOYEMENTS          :
- -  ------- - --------- -                 :                                                      I      
:1.00 Institutional Strengthening of ICD       :
Refurbishing of e.iuting facilitie s    X complete         : 100X:       :      :
Engineering services for mestor plan    X complete    20C:  40X:  401:          :
Construction of now facilities          X complete                   X01:  501:
Procurement of equlpment/furnituro       X complet                   40X:  601:
Procurement of SEDU R&D materials          sets       yes : yes : ys : yes : ye
Internationsl experts                 :staff months:    6      6      6 :   6
Study tours for ICD staff              :stsff sonths:      :  40 :  40 :  40           :
:2.00 Science Teaching
*       Refurbishing of TRCs                      centers   :           5      5:
5       Engineering services for remodelling   :X coeplsto :       :  45X:   61X:
*       Procurement of scitnce kits            :X complot  :       : 100:X
-          Pilot secondary schools             :20 schools :       : 1001                      :
-          Other secondary schools             :100 schools :                       1001:
-       Evaluation of pilot schools            :  complote :       :         1001: :
Procuremet of vehicls                  :  units            :  10 :       :
3       Volunteer technical assistance         : exrts           S :    9:    9       9      9      6
Sensitization *sminars                    seminar          :ys yo:
-       Fellowships for TRC and lCD staff       staff months-      :  40    40    40
:8.00 Textbook Production                                                                      :
Strengthening of mu                                              :      :      :
-*      International experts                  :ataff months:   4       4 :   4
s       Overase training of setaff                 staff                2      2:
*       Procurement of equipment/vehicles      : I complete :          OOX:      :
-       Textbook distribution study              X complet  : 1001:
Primary School Textbooks
Developmsnb and authorship/new edition :no.of titles:   9 :   8 :                            :
Field toting                            no.of titles:    6:    6:    9       9:    9
Printing/publishing/distribution       :'000 copies  2850 : 2140 : a880 : 1900 : 1280 : 1840
Orientation seminars                   .  annual      ye  : ys : ye  : yes : yes
International experts                 :staff months:   12 :  12 :   0 :   6
Secondary School Textbooks                I
Reprinting rights                      .no.of titles:   12 :   6      6
Developmnt and authorship/nw edition :no.of titles:    8 :   4        4 :
Field teoting                            no.of titles:    S :   4     4
Printing/publishing/distribution       :'000 copies :  47 :  62    102 : 128 :  90 :  97
Orientation seminars                      annual   : ys : yes   yes : yes : yes
School Libraries
International experts                 :staff months:           4      1     1
Training                               :headmasters :      : 100
Training                                librarians  :      : 105
Procurement/primary school libraries   : schools           :        100
Procurement/secondary school librarioas : schools   :      : 105
Procurcemnt/TTC libraries                  TTCn            :  42
Procurement/University library           university :           1                             :
_______________-- -- --- -- --  -__ _  -__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -   -   -  ----_------__----------------  -------------



- 157 -ANE  24
Page 8 of a
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
:           :              IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
PROJECT COMPONENT/ACTIVITY            UNIT    ------ --      :-
:90/91 :91/92 :92/93 :93/94 :94/96 :95/96
---                                         ----------                                 -------
MOBILIZATION OF COMIWUNIM  RESOURCES                           :         :
:~~~~~~~~ ---------------------::::::::
:1.00 Development of School Maintenance Strategy:                         :          :
--      Construction manageent consultant    :staff months:   6 :  12    12    12           12 :   6
*       Selection of Participating schools                  : 100 : 215    216    215
Recruitment of District SMARTs         :105 district:  100I  :O
Training of District SMARTS            :10 district:      : 100: :
Organization of Community SMARTS       : schools           : 100 : 215    215   216
Rehabilitation of prTmary schools      : schools       :      100 : 215 : 215 : 216
:2.00 Comunity Secondary Schools               :            :
Establishment of NETF                  :X comp!ete   100X                              :
*       Appraisal of community/DETF proposals  :  snnual             yes  :ys  :yes     ye  : yes
*       Existing schools equipped              : schools               10 :  10    15 :  1S6:s:
Now schools completed equipped         : schools          I:      :   1:   2:    a:    4:
DETF anager  trained                       staff               10:   10 :  10:
DETF teachers trained                    teachrs  :           S0 :  60    100    100
:- - -- - -                            -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -   -  ------ :  



- 158 -                             ANNEX 25
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
LOCAL        TOTAL
EXPENDITURES                       IDA   SIDA   NORAD COMUTY  GOVT  COST
-------- - ---                     ---- 
INVESTMENT COSTS:
Civil Works
ICD, TRC, School Librarle          2.80                       0.50   8.ao
Primery School*
Building Materials          14.10                       2.60  16.60
Community Labor                                  4.40          4.40
NETF Secondary Schools
Building Materials                         1.90         0.80   2.20
Community Labor                                  0.70          0.70
Equipment, Furniture, Vehicle.            8.80          2.40          0.20   6.20
Technical Assistance
Intornational Experts              4.20  0.20                         4.40
Local Consultants                  0.90                               0.90
Studies                            1.10                                1.10
Overseas Training                  0.90  0.10                          1.00
Local Training                     4.30          0.60                 4.90
Textbooks, Reference Materials
Manuscript Development              1.10                               1.10
Primry Textbooks
Book Production                   11.60                 0.70  12.20
Distribution                       0.20                 0.03  0.28
Secondary Textbooks
Book Production              1.80                       0.10   1.40
Distribution                0.10                        0.02   0.12
Library, Refernceo Books           2.90                               2.90
Project Administration                    0.70                 0.90  0.80   1.90
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS:           88.00  12.00  4.90  6.00  4.65 6e.65
RECURRENT COSTS:
MOE Recurrent Coata
Local Salaries                                                 0.10  0.10
Operational Expenditures           0.20                        0.50  0.70
Maintenance                                                    0.50  0.50
MLW Recurrent Costa
Local Salaries                                                 0.0   0.06
Operational Expenditures           0.10                        0.10   0.20
Maintenance
Community Recurrent Costs
Maintenance                                             0.40          0.40
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS:             0.80                 0.40   1.25   1.91
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:              U8.30  12.00   4.90  6.40   5.90 67.60
_=== _==  =-



- 159 -
ANNEX 26
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND RENADILTATION PJECT
DISIURSEMENTS BY FINACIER BY SEMEST
(US$ million)
LOCAL
IDA           SIDA        NORAD      COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENT     TOTAL
SEM CY/SEUESTER  AMT CUMUL  X      ANT  X      ANT  X       AMT  X       AT  5       AMT CUMUL  X
1 190  2            0.0  ox            OX           OX          OX          OX      0    0   OX
2 1991  1    1.5  1.5   45   1.0   8X               OX          Ol   0.1   2X   2.6  2.6   4X
8        2    1.6  8.1   oX   1.0   oX              OX          OX   0.2   3X   2.8  6.4   ex
4 1992  1    4.1  7.2  19%   1.0   OX   0.8    OX   0.a  65   0.4   7X   6.1 11.5  17X
5        2    4.1 11.8  8o0   1.0   OX   0.4    OX   0.8   5X   0.4   7X   6.2 17.7  28x
6  1998  1    4.1  15.4  40X   1.5  18X   0.6   1OX   0.6   8X   0.6  1OX   7.2 24.9  37X
7        2    4.1  19.6  S1   1.5  18X   0.6   10   0.5   O%   0.6  IOX   7.2 82.1  48X
8 1994  1    8.8 23.3  81X   0.9   ON   0.5   1OX   0.7  llX    0.6  1OX   6.6  88.6  65X
9        2    3.8  27.1  71x   0.9   8X   0.6   1OX   0.7  11X   0.8  1OX   6.5  45.1  67X
10 1995  1    8.4  80.6  8NS   0.6  56   0.6   12%   0.9  14X   0.6  1OX   6.1  61.2  76X
11        2    8.4  88.9  S9X   0.6   SX   0.6   12X   0.9  14X   0.6  1OX   8.1 57.8  SX
12 1996  1    2.2  386.1  94X   1.0   OX   0.6   1OX   0.8  18X   0.6  1OX   6.1 62.4  92X
18        2    2.2 88.8  1005   1.0   8X   0.6   10X   0.8  138   0.6  1OX   6.1 67.5 100%
TOTAL 38.8              12.0         4.9          6.4         6.9         67.5



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEDULE
* ~~~~~saw=   Pm                   FM,                                     t 
NU  OF S3UStZATN                   2 p    :            -          --- -    -iTOTAL -T  PFDVM-                                   1ItTW
2iUW2E    2 90/91    ,irw    928 94    94/95    96/96   2             :     C'in  2
SRLcZIST SYIcWE                             .                                                               2                   
1.0 Stre"t9enng of Eduction 1"amemnt                      2                                                                        t
------- -------------------------              :         ::                                                           :           
Edcation Planning/lheeonnt                  :weigp  2        .0      0.0 S                                     6.0  B/9o 2MA 20240106 trUling profia for
education ingr 
Eduction Planwning/lhegeent                 ALCS      2   24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0                      2 96.0  a/m,  MA 2Asist in training of Contral VA
2" 1ion   BdwftiOS _maer.
2.0 Project Adminiatrotion                                .
: ----------------- ----                       :         ::                                                           :     ::t
Project Coro6di"tor/PC1                     :Local          6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0         6.0    2 .0  M/ 2A                                                 2
Project fnageuent                           :Foreign        4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0            20,0 -/o e   MA -Po r_oUbt. aco ntin, A budga.g 
dealn arojwct  i;torryno and
.0 DOvSlop_o4 of WE Infor.tirn Oam2
: ---------------- ----- ------------                                                                 
Information 6ystme  Spccial lot             :Poroln         6.0    12.0       6.0                             24.0  cra*   IDA Masionof edectionel detobmet
VWd coillction/ofnoalvo, inatruento.    I
; trei ia  of  /mrmS stff
Inforoation Sy-e_ Special il*t              tLocal    2   12.0    24.0    12.0                                46.0 -*/so 2I W A        si. il ntet"ls@tt of MS mrd
"taining of erlreial dtff
4.0 Educticonal Re"erch
: --- --.--------------:                                 ::                                                           :     :     ::                                                eB
SubjA ct Sp".Ila I i          J 0             oriOSn    O  8.0       8.0      3.0      8.0     8.0          216.0 2/U    MA tPrtper-tleS of _twilie  gown other.                OQn
2    education fnesc*. studsnt acitioemognt,  2 
2unit co_  of eduction. schol mPifo^. 2
2 2tschet eoeraiea. decentralization of 
:     2 ~dation management, etc.                 : 
8.0   onr Aid Coordination
C         ----------------------             :        :              2                  .                                 : 4  /
Confence Coord I nota?                       Forein                  2.0              2.0                      4.0  s/mo  IDA :Orgnls drow eooore rJce



:                                    , eRl~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~OD4M  SERVICES aeDoB    PE PSalD      :                  I                      
*  A OP WIM.ZALCATZ                    OF           --------------  TOAL   4  FIIW 
2   CES  90/91    91/92   92/93   98/94   94/95   9/96                      :CUR
:    S1wZAULST SiEn: :c
6.0 Science Currc lw Deeopent                             :                                                     :      :    :    : 
Siene Educetion SpeCialist                  :forel          6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0                    24.0 s/mo   IDA :Scieme cwrriculum dtein. l em-coet
qulpeent dovelopeetA sd  production
Science Teician.                            :VoI,mtelr:    8.0       9.0     *.0      9.0      9.0      6.0 2 46.0  /mo   MA Asaiat it diefceinetlion ot once prgre
through the Teachr Roure Center.
Science T.dmiciem                           :Lacsl          8.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0      6.0  48.0 aO/m       A :Amlot In diee.minstin of ecence, pogrm 
throug the TYechcr _source Centers      2
:7.0 Textboo  Praduction                          .                                                                                                                             2
:    -------------                                :         :                                                     :      :     :    :                                           2s
I    Tet I   Prowtion Specialist                  :Fareium       4.0      4.0      4.0                              12.0 U e/mo ;SOA :A.mist in _tblishmmt of the S1o t
2 Haeg-nt IUit and tri.ng oe IIIU  teffl@
2                                                 2                                                               2      2    2      2 Prepare stui. an tetbock cot rec oery:
nad financil chml_s to euetian
2.etbock  rorem after the proJect
2                                                                                                                 2 :         
Tootl    Producton T  nic;                   Forimn i      12.0    12.0      6.0       4.0                    84.0 s/mo :SDA :Aet ICD  nd WU* In  ull *rmee of
toetb    editing. pubtlehing. Orintlns
2  2  2  2    2 e2 and dietribution
.0 School Librar
Library Specialist                           Foreilen               4.0       1.0     1.0                      6.0 :O/mo   M    Organize training prgrM for chool 
librriane *ad heedtechere In agortion
end mintneneof echool l ibrerlee
9.0 Couetruction and School Rehabilitation      .Q 2 
Architecturu/engtineer.ng serviee           :L'oal/             Lue em contreat                            12/e   IDA :Prepaertion of building meter plan of nem                     o m
Foreisa                                                        .                        foci8 I fci tie m nd cnetructi on euperviel
Construction Itement Consultent(e)          :Foreagn         .0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0         6.0  60.0  /m    MA  Orgen;gtion,n of ori_ery echool rehbiliteti:
o22reog . training of SKAre.  Service. *i:
include enginetering scricee. _et4riolm  2
rocuremnt nd distribution. ecnitorinS
*nd evaluation on ehool rehabilitation



siaM                SEVICES tNcED PF PRIKW
:             AFREtFA OF SPtCZALXZATI_ OF                                          ------------------------- :TOTAL :UNIT tFDW:                  Ft/JTrt
SERVIM    90/91    91/92    92/93    98/94    94/98    95/956                CCIE
SPECIALST SERVICES                                                                                                               t 
6.0 Science Curriculum Development
: ---- ----------------_---------:                        ::                                                            :           
Science Education Specialist                 :Farign  :      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0                     24.0 :a/.,  IDA :Sc; nce curriculum d"Sion. los-coot
.eipmnt development nd production
Science Technicians                          :Yolunt..r:    3.0       9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      6.0  45.0  sa/o   IDA :Aoiot 'n dic_;intion of science proream
*      .     I        throvg  the Teacher PReorce Canter.
Science Technicians                          Locol         .30        9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      d.0  48.0  a/u   IDA zAosiet if dileeination of science program
*  .  :  through the Teacher Rasurce Centere
7.0 Teatbook Production
: ----------------- -:                                    ::                                                            :     :     ::
Textbook Production Specialist                Faorel;n       4.0      4.0      4.0                              12.0  s/mo :SDA :Aeeit in eeteblishment of the Sook
Management Unit and tralning o OmJ staff:
Propere studies on textbook cat racooryI
and financial mechanism  to ;suein
teatbook progi.aa after the project
Textbook Production Technician               :Frein         U 12.0    12.0     8.0      6,0                     8.O -0/am :SIDA :Amiat lCD and NW U in  ki ll area of
teatbook editing. publiehing, printing
end distribution
8.0 School Librariee
Library Specialist                           -foreign                 4.0      1.0      1.0                      6.0 -./o   MA :Organize traiinng prrogrm for *chool
librarian. and headtechere in operation
and mintnence of chool l;ibra;ec
9.0 Construction and School RehablitXation                                                                                                                                      I 
Architectural/nginaering mervicee      -      Locel/      1       ijowm  contract                                     Ileu.- MA :Preparation at building moter plan of na g
-Foreign                                                         .      .ICD facilitiae and construction  mpervie:                        o    I
Construction  hnagemeant Coneultent(e)        Fereign        6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0          6.0   60.0 :/a/   WA :Organilation of pri_ry schoo  rehabiliteti: 
program, training of S9W'Te. Seraicee wi:
I :      : : :include ensineering aervices. materials
:  t   t  :  :  :  : procurent and distribution, monitoring
fand evslustin on achoel rehabil;tation
:      :     :     : program



ROIM                SERVZM  REDBt  Pt3t PERID:
A   Of SWEALXZAAT                   :  Of                                  __                         __-.-------_----------------NTOTAL   zldalT  FD4M4
:SEVCES   90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    44/93    9f1/96                 CER:
FfLLOPSfWAMM
1.0 Educetion Msngsnt/Project Adeinistration
:- ------------------------ - -     
Education Adea istration                     :Ltcal                  1SO       1SO                               300 :staff  IDA :wrovi dd et  4WTP for contral
and regional education enegr:
ScheFol lbna_ent                             .LocoI                  2100     2100     2100    2100    2100  1060  stff: IDA :For headteachera and echool inapectore
training organized *t district level
Project lbnapgssnt                           .Forogn         4.0      4.0      A.0      4.0      4.0            20.0  /smo   IDA :Observe projsct management practice.
*  In selected countriee/inetitutiona
2.0 Developmnt of 1OE Inforastion Bose e
: -------------------- ------------             :                                                                             :     :O
Educational Data Collection                   Local          300      300      300      300      300             300 zetff: IDA :For data collectors, organized at
regional level
3.0 Curriculuo Developeset
: -------- ------------:                                  ::                                                            :           
Short-tare fellowship*                       :forolgn                40.0    40.0    40.0                     :120.0 :&/mo   IDA :Trsln;ng of hey 1CQ/HOE staff In skill
.       *aeas of curriculum doeign. science
douipment deoign and peroduction,
and teatbook publication (planning,
*       ariting, editing, graphics, production)
lbngeset of bOok Production/Distribution   :foreign                  2.0      2.0                               4.0 to/so  SmA -.For OM atuf
Scsinaro on use of now primary testbookra     Locl                  lO0O    1OC0    10000   1OOD        1     :10000         MAt ff    I For primry schol heed teacher        :
Sesinsrs on .s  of now *scondary teatbooke    Local                   420      420      420      420      420   420  st*ff: MA :For secondary schol heed teschers            :
O %A
Training on asnagesent of school librarieo    Local                   100                                        100 -taff: IDA 1H4ed_*ster of pilot primary schools
10o                                        105  statff  IDA  Secondary school libreriane
4.0 Construction and School Rehabilitation
-Sco a-----  ---------- - - ----------b                                                                                                                       i
ScFom I R.hbilitation s.d Msi,te.a.co        :1-cal         IOS      lOS (continu*d)                             105O di-;t tM tDaTr*n;no of 300 aomb*r- of district SMoitTS



iUGANDA  M?--A 1'--''l-t-' __ __ _ _t?                       T .36
KAPACWF                                         A
~f  WES T    , MUlEBA  JKEREWE             4    .----'
RWANDA D            LAKE
)  )   ;     G siNGFREMA '        ,                    -    M
, ,              ,  -tNGJ   -  -                        
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ : W JN ZX     N 
BU R U ND I                                                                      MondM1ondcA
GA~~~~~~  A
tWrtSt  A- f5A2;   A
70             A                           A           S. ;>9-ds} s     
KsGdX> e~~~ 7;09 t5 ~~I N G| D At 
\ 4>  L/                   T  A           R!  A    -  
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0   \   ~, ;DOM A
*                                            2               <        .   E ; %    N l o m b rr < t   \ b f   i  a :~~~3 2   3
ZAR                         baag                          V -                     
M ( X v  \   /              r     d              '     S   H - >~~~~~~~I -
re~~~~~~~8 Ys A2                 /3  _ 



