Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18137
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
T'ANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CRE1DIT 2137-TA)
JUJNE 30, 1998
Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At the time of Appraisal (February 1989)
TSh 193   =   US$1.00
TSh 1     =   US$.0052
At the time of Project Completion (April 1998)
TSh 600   =   US$1.00
TSh 1     =   US$.0017
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMU           -      Book Management Unit
CURE          -      Coordinating Unit for Research and Evaluation
ESAMI         -      Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute
DETF          -      District Education Trust Fund
HRDP          -      Human Resource Development Project
ICD           -      Institute of Curriculum Development
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
MANTEP        -      Management Training for Education Personnel
MOEC          -      Ministry of Education and Culture
NETF          -      National Education Trust Fund
NORAD         -      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PMO/LG        -      Prime Minister's Office - Department of Local Government
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           -      Special Drawing Rights
SIDA         -       Swedish International Development Authority
SMARTs       -       School Maintenance and Rehabilitation Teams
TIE           -      Tanzania Institute of Education
TRC           -      Teachers Resource Center
UDSM          -      University of Dar es Salaam
UPE           -      Universal Primary Education
Vice President             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director           James W. Adams
Sector Manager             Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader           Donald Hamilton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE..........................................................................................................................................................................
PART 1: EVALUATION SUMMARY.............................................................................................................................-
Project Objectives ........................................................i
Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................i
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................................................                          ii
Project Sustainability ............................................... .                                                                        ii
Bank Performance ............................................... ii
Borrower Performance ...............................................                                                                           iii
Assessment of Outcome ...............................................                                                                          iii
Future Operation ...............................................                                                                               iii
Key Lessons Learned ...............................................                                                                            iii
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................I
Project Objectives ........................I
Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................6
Project Sustainability ...............................................7
Bank Performance ...............................................8
Borrower Performance ................................................9
Assessment of Outcome ................................................9
Future Operation ........................9
Key Lessons Learned ............................................... 10
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...............................................                                                                      11
Table la: Summary of Assessments ...............................................                                                               11
Table I b: Strengthening of Institutional Capacity ....                                        .................... 12
Table I c: Improving the Quality of Education ...................................                                                              13
Table Id: Strengthening of Mobilization and Effective Utilization of Non-Government Resources and
Support for Education .................................. 14
Table 2: Related IDA Credits ..................................                                                                                15
Table 3: Project Timetable ..................................                                                                                  17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$million) ................................................ 18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .........................................................                                   19
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operations .........................................................                                22
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .........................................................                                                 25
Table 8A: Project Cost .........................................................                                                               28
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$M) .........................................................                                                   29
Table  9: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................................30
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................                                               35
Table I1: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................                                                   36
APPENDICES
Appendix A   Mission Aide Memoire
Appendix B    Borrower's Comments on the ICR
Appendix C    Borrower's Evaluation
Appendix D    Co-financier's (NORAD's,) Comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribultion and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
EDUCATION PLANNING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR. 2137-TA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Planning and
Rehabilitation Project in Tanzania, for which Credit 2137-TA in the amount of SDR 29.0 million
(US$38.3 million equivalent at the 1990 prevailing exchange rate) was approved on June 8, 1990,
and made effective on November 12, 1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, following a 12-month extension. SDR 5.3
million was canceled following the mid-term review. The credit is fully disbursed, and the final
disbursement took place in April, 1998. TIhe credit was supplemented by a US$8.0 million
equivalent grant from the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD) and
parallel financing of US$12.0 million equivalent provided by the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Donald Hamilton, Human Development Group 1 of the
Africa Region. It was reviewed by Ms. Ruth Kagia (Sector Manager), and Mr. James W. Adams
(Country Director). The Borrower and co.-financiers provided comments that are included as
appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during a mission to Tanzania from March 19 to April
16, 1998. The mission consisted of Mr. George Hadjicostas (Civil Engineer, Consultant), Ms.
Lavinia Gasperini (Education Specialist), Dr. Emmanuel Malangalila (Operations Officer,
Resident Mission), Mr. Barney I. S. Laseko (Project Management Specialist, Resident Mission),
and Mr. Donald Hamilton (Mission Leader). The Borrower contributed to the preparation of this
ICR by rendering valuable professional assistance to the ICR Mission and the Borrower's
Evaluation.
This report is based on the mission's findings following their extensive discussions with
the beneficiaries, the donors and the principals of the various institutions involved. The team met
with the Permanent Secretaries in the Prime Minister's Office and Ministry of Education and
Culture, and was assisted by the Project Coordinators and staff in those two ministries. In
addition, the ICR team relied on historical project documents and correspondence in the project
files, and reviewed the implementation an,d monitoring assessments and audit reports submitted
for this project.



Evaluation Summary                                                      Page i of iii
PART I: EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The eighth IDA education project in Tanzania, the Education Planning and Rehabilitation
Project (EPRP), consisted of a credit in the amount of SDR 29.0 million (US$38.3 million
equivalent). The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, following a 12-month extension.
Supplemental funds were provided by the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
(US$8.0 million equivalent) and the Swedish International Development Agency (US$12.0
million equivalent).
Project Objectives
*  Strengthening institutional capacity for planning and implementing appropriate and effective
education policies and programs (actual cost: US$6.2 million).
*  Improving the quality of primary and secondary education (actual cost: US$23.3 million).
*  Strengthening the mobilization and effective utilization of non-governmental resources and
support for education (actual cost: US$25.8 million).
Achievement of Project Objectives
2.    While the quality and efficiency of activities were uneven, the project was partially
successful. Many targets were reached, but the project did not systematically measure impact.
(i) Strengthening Sector Planning and Management. The objectives of this component
were largely achieved and the outcome oni the whole was satisfactory. (a) Strengthening of
Education Management (partly successful). The target number of educational managers, school
heads, and librarians were trained. The physical facilities of the management training agency
were upgraded; but its curriculum is limited, and the quality of its training has suffered from staff
losses. (b) MOEC Information Base (partly successful). The statistical information systems of
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) were significantly improved, including the
publication of the bulletin "Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania (BEST) Data Analysis."
However, data on primary education and examination results are still inadequate, and the capacity
for linking educational expenditures with outcomes has not been developed. (c) Education
Research and Studies largely successful). A number of research studies financed by the project
provided the basis for key policy decisions taken at the time-for example, in piloting the
Community Education Fund and privatizing the publication of textbooks.
(ii) Improving Education Quality. The objectives of this component were achieved,
except for the Science Teaching sub-component. However, given the achievements of the other
sub-components the overall outcome is rated satisfactory. (a) Institute of Curriculum
Development (largely successful as revised). This subcomponent was not fully implemented as
originally designed because part of ICD's role was shifted to the private sector. Nevertheless, the
revised activities in curriculum development and textbook review had a positive impact.
(b) Science Teaching (mostly unsuccessful). In this subcomponent, Teacher Resource Centers
(TRC) were built but the integrated science curriculum was never implemented. However, the
MOEC may instead use the TRCs as additional resources for teacher training. (c) Textbooks (very



Evaluation Summary                                                      Page ii of iii
successful as revised). The production and distribution of over one million secondary school
textbooks helped increase the book-pupil ratio from 1:8 to 1:3. In addition, the project supported
privatizing the production of textbooks. (d) Libraries (partly successful). The physical targets
for the provision of library books were met. MOEC now needs to implement its plan for the
development of libraries.
(iii) Mobilizing Community Resources. The objectives of this component were partially
achieved, but with difficulty and cost overruns. This component is evaluated as having a
marginally satisfactory outcome. (a) Primary School Rehabilitation (partly successful). Under
this program, communities were mobilized to help rehabilitate 798 schools, 48 more than
planned. However, pilot schools built to illustrate low-maintenance construction and the school
maintenance teams had limited effect. (b) Construction and Rehabilitation of Non-government
Secondary Schools (mostly unsuccessful). Although this subcomponent had some positive
effects, the original objectives were not met. A total of 311 grants were awarded, but the planned
tasks at a number of schools are unlikely to be completed because of National Education Trust
Fund's (NETF) overcommitment and slow construction. NETF assumed the management role
intended for NGOs, so operational costs were higher than expected.
Two Pilot Initiatives. In the mid- 1990s, the Government of Tanzania (GOT) requested
that the project design be modified to include two pilot components: One matched community
contributions for the development of primary schools, and the other funded secondary school
scholarships for girls from poor households. The pilots have been sufficiently successful to form
the basis of the new Human Resources Development Pilot Project (Cr. 2991-TA).
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
3.    Success in the implementation of the individual project activities was variable for several
reasons. First, institutional capacity was too weak to handle some of the more innovative
components, and coordination of the components and subcomponents across a variety of
institutions proved to be unworkable. Second, sector policies were unclear and inconsistent.
Third, some subcomponents were not well conceived or fully discussed before being included in
the project. Fourth, inadequate financial management led to cost overruns. These problems were
compounded by factors largely beyond Government's control, including an economic crisis in
Tanzania that severely constrained GOT's ability to provide counterpart funds, frequent changes
in the Bank's Task Managers, and changes in Bank procurement procedures.
Project Sustainability
4.    Although not all subcomponents can be maintained, the overall sustainability of the
project objectives is rated likely. Capacity has been built throughout the sector, and certain key
activities in each of the loosely related components are sustainable.
Bank Performance
5.    Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification and preparation, but
performance at appraisal is rated unsatisfactory. Some appraisal decisions set the stage for future
problems. Given the weak capacity in the sector at the time, the appraisal mission should have
questioned the wisdom of including many difficult and innovative approaches in the same project
across ministry boundaries. Overall Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory,



Evaluation Summary                                                     Page iii of iii
though not always smooth. Some supervision missions did not recognize that disbursement
delays had been caused by legitimate policy discussions or design flaws. In addition, education
indicators were not adequately monitored. However, the mid-term review was effective in
facilitating improved Bank performance in the later years of implementation.
Borrower Performance
6.    Borrower performance was uneven but satisfactory overall. Borrower performance
during project preparation is rated as unsatisfactory. Unclear policies and strategies for some of
the quality components led to delays ancl changes in policy. In addition, there was no consensus
for some project activities, such as the science curriculum revision. The request to include the
NETF component should have been accompanied by a clear vision of its role and how it would
operate. During implementation, Borrower performance was satisfactory. The project
implementation units coped well with the restructuring of the Bank, if not so well with the
changes in procurement guidelines. Performance improved sharply after the mid-termn review,
and most of the targets were eventually met. But management of project accounts was a major
weakness and resulted in cost overruns.
Assessment of Outcome
7.    Despite its serious shortcomings, the outcome of the project was marginally satisfactory.
The project's positive impact was an achievement, especially considering the overwhelming
challenges of the sector and institutional weaknesses. In particular, the project strengthened the
sector's human resources, laid a foundation for sector analysis and policy reform, provided
books, and mobilized communities to rehabilitate schools. Studies financed by the project weire
the basis for key policy decisions made cluring that period and set the stage for the subsequent
pilot operations.
Future Operation
8.    The following actions would enhLance and sustain the effectiveness of this project:
(a) NETF should re-orient its functions and study the possibility of channeling funds through
District Education Trust Funds (DETF) and other NGOs; (b) the Bank and the Government
should continue dialogue on the new poliicy for MANTEP, the development of libraries, and
science teaching; and (c) the Bank and thie Government should periodically evaluate the
effectiveness of the Community Education Fund (CEF) and Girls Secondary Education Support
(GSES) activities piloted under the current project.
Key Lessons Learned
9.    The following are some of the lessons learned from this operation:
*  When the policy framework is unclear and institutional capacity is weak, an instrument such
as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) may be more appropriate than a traditional project.
*  Responsibilities and resources should be decentralized to local institutions only when clearly
defined procedures for the use and management of the funds have been established.
*  Special project units outside the line functions of a ministry should be avoided.
Responsibility for maintaining and rehabilitating schools should be kept as close to the school
as possible, including directing funds to local levels to reduce costs and avoid inefficiencies.



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page I
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    IDA has been supporting the development of education and training in Tanzania since
1963. The eighth IDA education project in Tanzania, the Education Planning and Rehabilitation
Project (EPRP), consisted of a credit in l:he amount of SDR 29.0 million (US$38.3 million
equivalent). By the time of project appraisal in 1990, the previous seven education projects
addressing various sector issues had utilized IDA assistance totaling US$70.2 million (see
Table 2). In real terms, this total lending for all seven projects was only slightly more than tlhe
amount approved for the Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project.
2.    The three management units for the project were the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOEC), the Prime Minister's Office/Department of Local Government (PMO/LG), and the
National Education Trust Fund (NETF). The credit was closed following a 12-month extension to
allow for completion of the project's activities. SDR 5.3 million was canceled from the original
credit following the mid-term review. The Disbursement Section has recorded that the amount to
be repaid by the Government of Tanzaniia (GOT) against this credit is US$33.0 million.
3.    The credit was supplemented by a grant of US$4.9 million equivalent from the
Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD). That grant was subsequently
increased to US$8.0 million after the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed. In
addition, the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) provided a grant of US$12.0
million equivalent in parallel financing. This was for providing textbooks to primary schools and
for supporting the MOEC's efforts to privatize textbook publication.
Project Objectives
4.    This project was planned as the first phase of a multi-stage program that would be
implemented at least through the year 2000. The program was designed to revitalize the
Tanzanian education sector, one of several sectors that had been hurt by the economic crisis in
the 1980s. The main objectives of the project were:
(i) To strengthen institutional capacityfor planning and implementing appropriate and
effective education policies andprograms (US$4.7 million, appraisal base cost estimate). This
would be accomplished by training managers, improving the information base, and strengthening
education research for policy development and sector studies.
(ii) To improve the quality of education at the primary and secondary levels (US$23.8
million). This would be done by strengthening the capacity of the Institute of Curriculum
Development (ICD) to produce textbooks and educational materials, improving the methods for
teaching science, developing the capacity to provide and use textbooks effectively in schools, and
upgrading libraries in primary and secondary schools, colleges, and the University of Dar es
Salaam.
(iii) To strengthen the mobilization and effective utilization of non-governmental
resources and supportfor education (US$19.6 million). This would be done by marshaling



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 2
community involvement in the development of a school maintenance and rehabilitation strategy
for primary schools (especially in deprived areas), and by creating the National Education Trust
Fund to promote community participation in the establishment of secondary schools.
5.    Modifications and additions made to the project reflected the difficulties encountered in
implementing the project as designed. They also reflected the evolution of policy that resulted
from extensive sector studies (some of which were financed by the project).
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    While the quality and efficiency of activities were uneven, the project was partially
successful. Many output indicator targets were reached, but the project did not track qualitative
indicators or systematically measure impact.
7.    The EPRP was an ambitious project designed to support the Government's long-termn
efforts toward the revitalization, reform, and rehabilitation of the education system. However, it
was seen as only a partial answer to the enormous challenges facing the sector at the time. To
address the issues fully, the Government would have needed to adopt a broad-based approach
including (a) developing a policy framework, sector strategy, and detailed plans for the
implementation of a strategy; (b) building institutional capacity, including salary incentives for
education sector staff; (c) reducing unit costs in key areas of the educational system; and (d)
increasing resource allocations to the sector.
8.    Because of institutional weaknesses and the scale of the challenges facing the Tanzanian
education sector, it was impossible to design a single project that addressed all of these issues
successfully. Nevertheless, the needs were urgent, so the project was designed as a compromise
between doing too little to make an impact and attempting to do more than could be effectively
implemented. There were two major risks associated with this compromise. The first was that
capacity deficiencies would hamper project implementation. The second was that, in the absence
of a clearly defined policy framework and implementation strategy, unanticipated policy changes
would change the pace and direction of the reform. These risks materialized during project
implementation and reduced the project's impact. The provisions for mitigating those risks,
namely annual reviews and technical assistance to strengthen management capacity, were not
fully utilized by the Project Coordinating Teams. In addition, the project did not systematically
collect data on the educational impact of project inputs. Despite these weaknesses, most of the
physical targets of the project were met. The specific achievements of each component are
discussed below.
(i) Strengthening Sector Planning and Management. The objectives of this component
were largely achieved and the outcome on the whole was satisfactory.
9.    Management Training This subcomponent was partly successful: managers and planners
were trained, but the training institution's capabilities were not substantially improved. The target
number of educational managers, school heads, and librarians from both the central and local
levels were trained and have been assigned to various parts of the country. A core of educational
planners and researchers from the MOEC and the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) were
also trained. In addition, the physical facilities and equipment at the Management Training for
Education Personnel agency (MANTEP) were upgraded (although at far higher costs than



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 3
planned). The upgrades increased capacity, improved the work environment, and jprovided the
agency with opportunities for cost-recovery by renting the facilities to other agencies. However,
the effectiveness of training provided by MANTEP appears to be limited, although it was not
fully evaluated. MANTEP currently provides a two-year course for educational managers, but
this curriculum does not fully satisfy the diverse needs of managers and school heads. MANTEP
has not used the technical assistance prDvided in the project to upgrade training, and the quality
of education and training has been uneven. A significant proportion of staff trained under the
project has left the agency.
10.   Information Base. This subcomlponent was also partly successful. The statistical
information systems of MOEC were significantly improved. The annual statistical bulletin titled
"Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania (BEST) Data Analysis" was improved and provides imore
timely basic data on education. While this is a substantial improvement over the conditions
prevailing at project appraisal, the task was not completed. Primary education data are still not
available at the central level in a forn that would permit detailed policy analysis. The data on1
examination results have a limited scope, so they do not provide enough detail to be useful in
identifying learning weaknesses. In addition, the capacity for linking data on educational
expenditures with educational outcomes has not been developed.
11.   Policy Research. This subcomponent was largely successful. A number of research
studies financed by the project provided the basis for key policy decisions taken at the time--for
example, in piloting the Community Eclucation Fund and privatizing the publication of textbooks.
The research results were incorporated into important policy documents, such as the 1997
"Education and Training Policy." The project awarded research contracts on an individual, rather
than institutional, basis. Institutional contracts would have contributed more to the development
of institutional skills in such areas as budget resources management. There may have been
difficulties in maintaining effective collaboration on research programs between tlhe MOEC
Planning Unit and UDSM. The ministry needs to systematically incorporate the findings of
UDSM research into policy making.
(ii) Improving Education Quality. The objectives of this component were achieved,
except for the Science Teaching sub-component. However, given the achievements of the other
sub-components the overall outcome is rated satisfactory.
12.   Institute of Curriculum Development (ICD). The activities of this subcomponent, as
originally designed, were not fully implemented because part of ICD's role was shifted to the
private sector. Nevertheless, the impact of the revised activities was very positive. The capacity
for curriculum development and review by ICD, now renamed the Tanzania Institute of
Education (TIE), was strengthened. In addition, TIE was prepared for its new role in reviewing
commercially produced textbooks. TIE's building plans were scaled down to be consistent with
the policy change that moved textbook publication from TIE to the private sector.
13.   Science Teaching. The original objectives of this subcomponent were mostly unmet,
although facilities built by the project may now be used for other purposes. Teacher Resource
Centers (TRC) were built but not used as planned. The decision not to develop science
equipment prototypes or implement the new curriculum, which the TRCs were going to
support, led to some uncertainty about the role of the TRCs. The new curriculum, planned for
integrated science instruction and for Forms I and II in mathematics, was suspended because



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 4
some teachers and parents feared that the changes would dilute the quality of education. The
TRCs were to provide in-service training to teachers using the new methods. In addition, six of
the seven principals who were trained to staff the TRCs have now been reassigned to other
duties. The MOEC has prepared an alternate plan to use the TRCs as additional resources for
teacher training institutions and schools in the areas where they are located. This plan has yet to
be implemented, so its future impact is uncertain.
14.   Textbooks. This subcomponent, as revised, was very successful. The implementation of
the textbook production and distribution component was modified before the DCA was signed.
As a result, SIDA and other donors became responsible for funding primary school textbooks,
while IDA financed secondary school textbooks. The Book Management Unit (BMU), supported
by the project and other donors, coordinated the production and distribution of over one million
secondary school textbooks in math, unified science, social studies, and English and Kiswahili
language studies. This helped increase the book-pupil ratio from 1:8 to 1:3. In addition, the
project supported the process of transferring responsibility for the production of textbooks to the
private sector. Textbooks procured under the new privatization policy are beginning to appear on
the market (mathematics Forms I to IV are now available in the market, while six more
publications have been sent to TIE for approval).
15.   Libraries. The objectives of this subcomponent were largely achieved, but MOEC now
needs an overall plan for the development of libraries to make the improvements sustainable. The
physical targets for the provision of library books to primary and secondary schools, colleges,
and UDSM were met. However, the selection of books distributed by central authorities did not
always match the needs of the various schools. Staff in these institutions were also provided
library management training at MANTEP.
('ii) Mobilizing Community Resources. The objectives of this component were partially
achieved, but with difficulty and cost overruns. For reasons stated below, this component is
evaluated as having a marginally satisfactory outcome.
16.   Primary School Rehabilitation. This subcomponent was partly successful, but only in one
of three areas. Communities were mobilized to help rehabilitate schools (with cost overruns), but
the impact of activities to promote local school maintenance teams and to model a cost-effective
construction design were minimal. Under the Office of the Prime Minister/Department of Local
Government, about 798 schools (against the 750 planned in the project) were assisted by this
subcomponent. Because of the popularity of the program, 48 more schools than planned were
funded. Following a consultant's recommendation, the first phase of the component (1991-92)
rebuilt schools rather than rehabilitating them, but this decision was later reversed. The project
funded building materials, furniture, part of the labor costs, training for artisans, and site
supervision, amounting to about US$13 million (15% higher than the estimated cost). This
subcomponent motivated communities to participate in the rehabilitation and outfitting of their
schools. Interestingly, some communities not directly assisted by the project are undertaking
rehabilitation and maintenance activities on their own initiative.
17.   The two other activities under this subcomponent were largely ineffective. Pilot schools
built to illustrate low-maintenance construction were well executed, but the methods and
materials proved to be too costly for widespread application. For example, the plaster and paint
applied to the external walls has created the need for constant maintenance. The training of
School Maintenance and Rehabilitation Teams (SMARTs) was completed as planned at a cost of



Implementation Completion Report                                         Page 5
about US$1,000 each. However, an evaluation report on the rehabilitation component found
SMARTs' input to be limited and very costly, especially when they had to work some distance
away from their normal work place. These costs were particularly high, given that they did not
have direct technical input to the construction work undertaken by the communities.
18.   Non-government Secondary School Construction and Rehabilitation. Although this
subcomponent had some positive effects, the original objectives were not met and many of the
activities were not implemented cost-effectively. Under the subcomponent, cofinanced by
NORAD, NETF was established as planned and functioned within MOEC. A total of 311 grants
were awarded to help in the construction and rehabilitation of non-government secondary
schools. However, the quality and scope of work performed by the communities that received
grants were difficult to determine or audit, and it appears that the planned tasks at a number of
schools will not be completed because of NETF overcommitment and slow construction. In
addition, NORAD has commented that non-physical accomplishments related to quality
improvement were not made the priority.
19.   The original objectives of this subcomponent were not met for two main reasons. First,
the objectives were changed after project approval. As originally designed, the project was
supposed to channel funds to District Education Trust Funds (DETFs) or other NGOs to build 10
new schools and complete 50 others. Tlhe NETF would also fund materials, equipment, and in-
service teacher training. These objectives were revised to allow NETF to provide grants to
communities that wanted to upgrade physical facilities, along with the other tasks approved by
the NETF.
20.   Second, NETF's operating system was revised and remained unclear. There was no clear
financial system for managing the funds awarded to the communities. In addition, NETF did not
channel funds to DETFs or NGOs as orilginally planned, and instead NETF assumed the role of
the DETFs. However, NETF lacked specialists to evaluate the applicants and to monitor the use
of grants in the field, and the project did not include operational funds for NETF. As a result, the
costs, especially for NETF travel to implementation sites, were far higher than normal for NCGOs.
An estimated 18% of the grants was spent on overhead and administration. NORAD noted that
these costs may have been higher because normal Government implementation arrangements
were not used. The subcomponent also experienced difficulties in appointing non-government
officials as board members of NETF.
21.   Two Pilot Initiatives. GOT also added two pilot initiatives not in the original project
design. These programs have been effective. Policy studies and discussions have raised doubts
about the efficacy of a centralized delivery of educational services managed entirely by public
institutions. The experiences of both PMIO/LG and NETF seem to support these doubts. To
complicate matters, educational indicators continued to worsen during that period. In the mid-
1990s, GOT decided to try alternate melthods for helping rural communities and requested that
the project design be modified and funds be reallocated to include two pilot components.
22.   The first component consisted of a Community Education Fund (CEF). Funds collected
by the community for educational purposes were matched on a 1: 1, 1.5: 1, or 2:1 ratio. These
funds were used to finance school-based plans, prepared and implemented by the communities,
for the development of primary education. The second component established Girls Seconda?y
Education Support (GSES) to promote increased participation in secondary education of girls
from poor households. These two components serve as the core of the recently launched Humian



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 6
Resources Development Pilot Project (HRDP) (Cr. 2991-TA), approved in October 1997 and
made effective in February 1998, for US$20.1 million equivalent.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   Although project implementation was generally satisfactory, success :n the
implementation of the various components was variable. Several factors that affected project
implementation were related to the risks identified in the project documents.
24.   Factors Subject to Government Control. First, institutional capacity was too weak to
handle some of the more innovative components or to coordinate a project that involved various
agencies in two ministries. The challenge was compounded by the decentralization of
responsibilities. For example, the primary school rehabilitation component was charged with the
devolution of civil works supervision and procurement responsibilities to the local level. District
level staff were unaccustomed to, and untrained in, Bank procurement guidelines. While
decentralization reduced the logistical problems of getting materials to school sites, it
complicated PMO/LG's monitoring of procurement, delivery, and use of materials. The regions
and districts also found it difficult to account for the funds because of their unfamiliarity with the
Banlk's disbursement procedures. NETF was also working with completely new and untried
procedures for helping communities and was constrained by their incomplete understanding of
the financial and procurement requirements of NORAD and the Bank.
25.   There were problems not only with the capacity of project management but with its
structure. Coordination of the three loosely related components and thirteen subcomponents
across a variety of institutions proved to be ineffective. In the absence of changes in the
Government's administrative structure, the decision to have only one Coordination Unit for a
project implemented by two separate ministries proved unworkable. As a result, this arrangement
was changed mid-project, and three separate units were established. The key issue seems to have
been that there was no central agency on the Government side with the authority to coordinate the
various agencies involved in the project. In addition, the Government's use of complicated
disbursement procedures, rather than a revolving fund for the project account, slowed the
provision of counterpart funds to implementing agencies.
26.   Another factor affecting implementation was that the policy framework was unclear, and
there were some unexpected policy changes. For example, the absence of a clear and consistent
policy framework delayed the delivery of textbooks, as well as civil works components. A
protracted discussion about an appropriate policy for publishing textbooks contributed to this
delay. The reversal of the policy on science instruction also delayed the construction of the
TRCs.
27.   In addition, some components were not well conceived or fully discussed prior to being
included in the project. Inadequate project preparation adversely affected the primary school
rehabilitation component. As noted above, a system for procurement of construction materials
was not fully defined and suffered from trial and error during implementation. The decision to
include the NETF component was made without adequate preparation or discussions with
NORAD about the objectives and description of the component or the role of the Bank in project
supervision. Such problems led to misunderstandings between the funding agencies and GOT,
causing significant delays in project implementation. In addition, NORAD has noted that parties



Implementation Completion Report                                          Page 7
at the NETF and community levels also were not made fully aware of their roles and the design
of the project.
28.   Factors Subject to Implementation Agency Control. Another issue is that of costs and
financial management. The annual audit reports contain a detailed, and fairly critical, account of
the manner by which PMO/LG and NE1F managed their funds. The cost of administering some
of the components was high and far beyond appraisal estimates. For example, at project closing
the PMO/LG Coordinator reported outstanding payments of about US$2.0 million for contracts
entered with suppliers of building materials and for counterpart funds to match community
contributions. The PMO/LG Project Unit also charged roughly US$1.15 million against the credit
(50% of which was disbursed as local expenditures) for travel and subsistence to supervise work
in schools that received grants; the initiaLl amount in the DCA was about US$200,000. When the
local contribution is factored in, the administrative cost of the rehabilitation subcomponent was
18%. Based on NGO experience in Tanzania, a figure of less than 5% would have been more
appropriate. The overcommitment of funds was partly the result of a weak project accounting
system that did not provide current information on expenditures and commitments.
29.   Factors Not Subject to Government Control. The above problems were compounded Iby
an economic crisis and currency devaluation in Tanzania that severely constrained GOT's ability
to provide counterpart funds. During the course of project implementation, the Tanzanian shilling
was devalued annually. The exchange rate of Tanzanian shillings per U.S. dollar was 200 in
1990, 233 in 1991, 335 in 1992, 478 in :1993, 524 in 1994, 570 in 1995, 590 in 1996, and 610 in
1997. (When these rates are applied to the amounts disbursed in each respective year, the credit
provided 15.0 billion TShs against an appraisal amount of 6.0 billion TShs.) Implementation also
suffered from frequent changes in Task Managers, resulting from the reorganization of the Baink,
and from changes in Bank procurement procedures.
Project Sustainability
30.   Although not all subcomponents can be maintained, the overall sustainability of the
project is rated likely. Capacity has been built throughout the sector, and certain key activities in
each component are sustainable. In addition, the two components piloted under this project show
promise. Because the components were only loosely related, each one is examined separately.
31.   Strengthening Sector Planning and Management. By building institutional capacity, the
first component has made MOEC less reliant on foreign technical assistance. Perhaps the greatest
achievement is that the MOEC Planning Unit has been strengthened to conduct and manage
sector planning and research. The unit's potential is substantial, though its future is uncertain.
The recent decision to assign staff from the Planning Unit to ad hoc task forces outside the
normal institutional framework of the NIOEC may significantly reduce the effectiveness of the
Unit. At MANTEP, operational costs are high, so its operations could become unsustainable as
Government support for recurrent expenditures is reduced. However, the project allows
MANTEP to gain some income from renting use of its improved facilities.
32.   Improving Education Quality. T he project has helped the Government transfer
responsibility for the technical production of books to the private sector. GOT decided to
privatize textbook publication in 1991. 'rhe project has contributed by supporting overseas
training, consulting services, and equipment that allowed the BMU to turn to the private sector.



Implementation Completion Report                                          Page 8
The response from private publishing firms has been slow but positive. However, there is some
concern that the limited market for books and publishers' lack of access to credit could prevent
full implementation of the Government's policy. If successful, the policy would make books
available at affordable prices over the medium to long term.
33.   Mobilizing Community Resources. The primary school rehabilitation program was not
sustainable as implemented during this project, but the system has been changed. The
Community Education Fund is addressing the weaknesses of the original program by giving
grants directly to schools. This pilot, now part of a new project, will be further evaluated as that
project is implemented. The NETF component was not sustainable because schools were
monitored from the central rather than district level. However, the Government recognizes the
need to find effective ways to finance sustainable expansion of secondary schools and is
addressing that issue in the context of the New Master Plan for Secondary Education currently
being developed.
Bank Performance
34.   Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification and preparation. The
team conducted a thorough analysis of issues in the sector and of options for addressing these
issues. Bank staff and the Borrower consciously decided at the time to follow a risky but
pragmatic approach because of the urgent needs of the sector. Overall performance at appraisal is
rated unsatisfactory; some appraisal decisions set the stage for future problems. Given the weak
capacity in the sector at the time, the appraisal mission should have questioned the wisdom of
including many difficult and innovative approaches in the same project across ministry
boundaries. It should also have been more open about the difficulties inherent in accepting the ill-
defined NETF component, and taken steps to minimize future problems.
35.   Overall Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory, though not always
smooth. Supervision missions faced daunting implementation problems, particularly during the
early stages of the project. Each of IDA's 10 supervision missions (employing a different Task
Manager- every two missions) left behind extensive aide-memoires and schedules of follow-up
activities to be carried out by the Project Implementation Units. These were useful, although the
schedules seemed overly ambitious sometimes because of weak implementation capacity. This
resulted in misunderstandings between the PIUs and the Bank. The supervision missions also
concentrated on physical inputs and did not adequately monitor education indicators that were
worsening during that period. The Government's contribution to the ICR states that the Bank's
involvement and the sound technical assistance provided were instrumental to the success of
project implementation. However, the large number of problems early in the project and the
frequent change of Task Managers led to the perception by PMO/LG and NETF that some Task
Managers were more concerned with finding fault than helping to carry out the project. NORAD
notes that the frequent turnover may also have contributed to higher-than-expected costs for the
NETF-implemented subcomponent.
36.   The observation of the mission was that all Bank supervisions were worthwhile, each
having contributed constructively to the completion of the project. Particularly during the early
stages of the project, some supervision missions seemed to place too much emphasis on
disbursements and did not recognize that the delays had been caused by legitimate policy
discussions or design flaws. Given the Bank's role in this oversight, staff could have been more
supportive of GOT while these changes were taking place. The Bank also should have provided



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 9
more support to the Borrower during the decentralization of procurement. However, the mid-term
review was used very effectively to take stock of these issues. As a result, Bank performance
improved markedly in the latter years of implementation.
Borrower Performance
37.   Borrower performance was uneven but satisfactory overall. During project preparation,
however, Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory. While there was a clear vision of what
was needed for the capacity-building component, the policies and strategies for some of the
quality components were not as clear. This obscurity led to delays in decision making and
changes in policy. In addition, there was no consensus for some project activities, such as
implementation of the revised science curriculum. Serious problems with the subcomponents
implemented by PMO/LG and NETF became evident during implementation. The request to
include the NETF component should have been accompanied by a clear vision of its role and how
it would operate. Changes in design reduced NETF's potential impact.
38.   During implementation, Borrower performance was satisfactory. The PIUs coped well
with the restructuring of the Bank, if not so well with the changes in procurement guidelines.
There was a marked improvement after the mid-term review, and most of the targets were met,
albeit much later than expected. Management of project accounts was a major weakness
throughout the implementation period and resulted in cost overruns on two components. The
Borrower should have taken the lead in addressing the issues that arose in trying to manage the
project across two ministries, rather than waiting as long as it did to attempt a solution. The
establishment of Special Implementation Units that were independent of the line functions of the
Ministry neither increased the implementation capacity nor did it contribute to institutional
capacity building.
Assessment of Outcome
39.   Despite its serious shortcomings, the outcome of the project was marginally satisfactory.
Especially considering the overwhelming challenges of the sector and institutional weaknesses,
the project's positive impact was an achievement. The institutional capacity for policy analysis
and implementation was strengthened. Studies financed by the project were the basis for key
policy decisions taken during that period. The project provided textbooks and library books to
many schools and institutions, and it significantly increased the involvement of communities in
school rehabilitation and maintenance. Some, though not all, of the activities are sustainable, and
the pilot initiatives established under the project have set the stage for additional operations in
Tanzania.
Future Operation
40.   The sector continues to be held back by the lack of a comprehensive vision for its future,
and by the lack of a mechanism for coordinating the various ministries and agencies involved in
education. The following actions will enhance and sustain the effectiveness of this project:
* NETF should reorient its functions and study the possibility of channeling funds through
DETFs, if appropriate, instead of continuing to operate as an NGO.



Implementation Completion Report                                            Page 10
* The Bank and the Government should continue dialogue on the new policy for development
of libraries and science teaching.
* The Bank should continue working with the Government, SIDA, and the Association of
Private Publishers on the privatization of textbook production.
*  MANTEP should develop a plan of action and work program to clarify its role. The
Government should evaluate the effectiveness of MANTEP's training. The Bank should
continue to discuss with Government the proposal to make MANTEP self-financing.
* The Bank and the Government should periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the CEF and
GSES activities piloted under the project.
Key Lessons Learned
41.   The following are some of the lessons learned from this operation:
*  The traditional project approach may not be appropriate to address certain sector issues when
the policy framework is unclear and institutional capacity is weak. An instrument such as a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) would allow the Government to test innovations before
implementing them on a large scale.
*  Responsibilities and resources should be decentralized to local agencies and institutions only
when clearly defined procedures for the use and management of the funds have been
established. These procedures should include incentives for local agencies to adhere to
reporting and other accountability guidelines.
*  Responsibility for maintaining and rehabilitating schools should be kept as close to the school
as possible, including directing funds to local levels to reduce costs and avoid inefficiencies.
*  Special project units outside the line functions of a ministry should be avoided.
*  If a project must be implemented by more than one ministry, normal government institutional
arrangements for project implementation should be used. Difficulties in reaching agreement
on effective institutional arrangements should be highlighted as serious project risks.
*  Innovations should not be added to projects unless there is adequate discussion of the
concept. Projects should support changes such as curriculum reform only after building
consensus among parents and teachers.
* For cofinancing and parallel or concurrent financing of project components, the Government
and the donors involved should fully discuss and reach a clear understanding on the
component's design and the scope and nature of each party's responsibilities.
* The Government and donors should emphasize the systematic collection of data on the
educational impact of projects and evaluate training provided.
*  Wlhen institutional capacity for policy and planning is being developed, it should be done to
serve the sector in the long term and be linked systematically to the key units of the ministry
or agency involved. This would better ensure sustainability and minimize the need to set up
ad hoc task groups with staff from these units.



Implementation Completion Report                                            Page 11
PART ][I: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Table lit: Summary of Assessments
.________________  Substantial   Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
Macro policies                                     X
Sector policies                   X
Financial objectives                               X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                  X
Gender issues                                      X
Other social objectives                                            X
Environmental objectives                                                              X
Public sector management                           X
Private sector development        X
Other - NGO cooperation           X
Community participation           X
Decentralization                  X
_________ _________ _______ _  Likely  Unlikely        Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                X X
Highily
l_______________________________ lsatisfactory       Satisfactory      Deficient
C. Bank performance
Identification                                     X
Preparation assistance                             X
Appraisal                                                          X
Supervision                                        X
Higlhly
satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                                        X
Implementation                 MOE,C            PMO/LG         NETF could
have done better
Covenant compliance                                X
Operation - Supply of             X
textbooks
E. Assessment of outcome                                 X                      .



Implementation Completion Report                                               Page 12
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Table lb: Strengthening of Institutional Capacity
Substantial        Partial         Negligible        Not Applicable
A. Achievement of objectives              X
Macro policies                                       X
Sector policies                    X
Financial objectives                                                                      X
Institutional development                            X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                    X
Gender issues                                        X
Other social objectives                                               X
Environmental objectives                                                                  X
Public sector management                             X
Private sector development         X
Other - NGO cooperation            X
Community participation            X
Decentralization                   X
I ________________________       _ =  L Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                 X
Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory         Highly
._____________________________    Satisfactory                                          Unsatisfactory
C. Assessment of outcome                                    X



Implementation Completion Report                                            Page 13
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Table lc: Iniproving the Quality of Education
Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
A. Achievement of objectives                             X
Macro policies                                                                        X
Sector policies                                   X
Financial objectives                                                                  X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                 X
Gender issues                                      X
Other social objectives                                            X
Environmental objectives                                                              X
Public sector management                           X
Private sector development        X
Other - NGO cooperation                            X
Community participation                                            X
Decentralization                                                   X
Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                X
Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory        Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unasatisfactory
C. Assessment of outcome                                 X



Implementation Completion Report                                            Page 14
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Table ld: Strengthening of Mobilization and Effective Utilization of Non-Government
Resources and Support for Education
Substantial       Partial         Negligible       Not Applicable
A. Achievement of objectives                             X
Macro policies                                                                        X
Sector policies                                    X
Financial objectives                               X
Institutional development                                           X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                  X
Gender issues                                      X
Other social objectives                                             X
Environmental objectives                                                               X
Public sector management                           X
Private sector development        X
Other - NGO cooperation           X
Community participation           X
Decentralization                  X
Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                X
Highly        Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory        Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
C. Assessment of outcome                                 X



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                  Page 15
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2137 TA.)
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Title/Cr. No./Amount                Achievement/Purpose             Date of Approval         Status of Closing Dates
Preceding operations                                                                           SAR                     Actual
1.    Education I          Expansion of general, secondary education    12/10/63             12/31/67           Not found in data system
C00450-TA
$4.6 million
2.    Education II          Support for secondary school expansion;     4/29/69               12/31/73                 12/31/76
C01490 - TA          initiation of diversified curriculum in
$5.0 million         secondary schools targeted for self-reliance;
expansion of teacher education
3.    Education III         Expansion of agricultural training for the  02/02/71              6/30/75                  12/31/77
C02320 - TA          Ministry of Agriculture
$3.3 million
4.    Education IV          Expansion of secondary education-teacher    03/27/73              6/30/78                  12/31/80
C03710 - TA          training-provision of Community Education
$10.3 million        Centres in rural areas to provide vocational
and non-formal education
5.    Education V          Provision of physical facilities, workshops  12/30/75              6/30/82                   1983
C06070 - TA          and equipment for S.E. diversified
$11.0 million        curriculum and training to support Village
Management Technicians Program (VMT)
to train accounts and audit personnel at the
Ujamaa (African Socialism) Village



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                     Page 16
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Title/Cr. No/Amount         Achievement/Purpose                      Date of Approval           Status of Closing Dates
Preceding operations                                                                             SAR                      Actual
6.    Education VI          Provision of boarding facilities at vocational  12/12/78            6/30/85                   12/31/88
C08610 - TA          education centres; girls' dormitories in
$12.0 million        technical schools and support for a pre-
investment study for the Institute of
Curriculum Development (ICD, now
renamed Tanzania Institute of Education,
TIE)
7.    Education VII          Support for the expansion of primary and     07/29/80              9/30/86                   12/31/90
C1 0560 - TA          secondary education; provision of science
$25.0 million        equipment and books to secondary schools;
expansion of teacher training; provision of
warehouses for Tanzania Elimu suppliers;
computerization of NECTA and the
establishment of the Coordinating Unit for
Research and Evaluation (CURE) in MOEC
Ongoing Operations
I1.    Human Resource       Providing matching grants to rehabilitate   10/17/97                12/31/05
Development Pilot    schools, and supply textbooks, furniture and
C29910-TA            equipment to, primary schools; improve
$20.1 million        access to secondary schools for girls from
poor families



Implementation Completion Report                                             Page 17
TANZANIA
Education Plainning & Rehabilitation Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                   Date Planned      Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   January 1988  January 1988
Preparation                              June 1988         June 1988
Appraisal                                November 1988    February 1989
Negotiations                             January 1990      January 1990
Board presentation                      July 1989          November 1989
Signing                                  June 12, 1990     June 18, 1990
Effectiveness                            Oct. 19, 1990     Nov. 12, 1990
Mid-term review (if applicable)          September 1994    September 1994
Project Completion                       December 31,      December 31,
1996              1997
Credit Closing                           April, 1997       April, 1998



Implementation Completion Report                                          Page 18
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project)
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$million)
Estimated Amount                Actual Amount
CY   Semester   Amount    Cum.    Cum.    Amount    Cum.             Cum.
Percent                       Percent of
of Total                        Total
1990     1
2                    0.0  0             1.49        1.49    4.71
1991     1           1.5       1.5  4             0.03       1.53     4.79
2          1.6       3.1   8            0.52       2.04     6.42
1992      1          4.1       7.2  19           2.85        4.90    15.39
2          4.1       11.3  30           1.70       6.60    20.75
1993      1          4.1      15.4  40            1.78       8.38    26.33
2          4.1       19.5  51           0.88       9.26    29.10
1994      1          3.8      23.3  61            0.37       9.63    30.26
2          3.8      27.1  71            1.63       11.26    35.39
1995      1          3.4      30.5  80            2.19      13.45    42.26
2          3.4      33.9  89            3.64       17.08    53.69
1996      1          2.2      36.1  94            2.63      19.72    61.97
2          2.2      38.3  100           4.36      24.07    75.66
1997      1                                       5.76      29.83    93.77
2                                       3.83      33.67   105.81
1998      1                                       0.18      33.84   106.37
2
Total          38.3                        33.84



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 19
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
DCA        Description of the         Indicator          Target at          Completed
Schedule 2      Component                                    Project           Dec. 1997
Para                                                    Completion
Ala        Training Education     Number of managers          10,000             10,500
Managers              trained
Alb        Refurbishing MANTEP   MANTEP rehabilitated                             100%
A2a        Strengthening          International and local   48 months local;   8 months local;
Information Base      technical assistance   24 months         22 months
obtained              international     international
Equipmient/software    SDR 56,800        100%
purchased
Reports printed        SDR 37,900       Printed
A2b        Strengthen NECTA       Examination results    Annual printing    Printed
printed by level, district,  SDR 37,000
subject and sex
Seminars for data      SDR 189,394      61% of SDR
collectors
A3a        Improvement in         Establish Research            1 I
Planning and Research   Committee
Capabilities
Establish Educational        I                   1
Research Bureau at
University of Dar es
Salaam
A3b        Acquire Microcomputer  Purchase computers,    SDR 72,000               100%
Equipment, Software,    software, library
etc. for Educational   materials
Research Bureau
A4         Studies for Education    Carry out 7 major    7                         17
Strategy              studies



Implementation Completion Report                                          Page 20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
DCA        Description of the        Indicator          Target at          Completed
Schedule       Component                                   Project           Dec. 1997
2                                                     Completion
A5         Pre-investment Study    Carry out pre-       SDR 380,000             100%
investment studies
BI        Strengthening of       Construct administration  I                    Done
Institute for Curriculum   building
Development
B2        Science Equipment      Equip SEDU             1                       100%
Provide fellowships and   120 staff months     100%
training for staff    of study tours
Purchase equipment and  SDR 379,000            Done
vehicles
B3        Improvement of Science  Construct and equip   10               Construction
Curriculum and        Teacher Resource                        completed. Equipment
Teaching Methodology   Centres                                ordered. Low, pending
implementation of a
new policy defining the
role of the Utilization
Policy Centers.
B4        Secondary School       Reprint titles         24                    Replaced
Textbook Production
Develop new           16                        40
manuscripts
Print, publish, and   521,000                530,000
distribute textbooks
Orientation seminars for  5                     5
teachers



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
DCA        Description of the         Indicator           Target at          Comp:leted
Schedule       Component                                    Project            Dec. 1997
2                                                      Completion
B5        School Libraries        Upgradle and procure   100                      10:2
books for primary school
libraries
Upgrade and procure    105                      182
books fbr secondary
school libraries
Upgrade and procure    42                        42
books for teacher
training college libraries
Upgrade and procure    I                          I
books for university
library
Train librarians       105                      19S
Train headmasters      100                       77
Cla       Comprehensive School   Train S.MARTs in 105    300                      298
Maintenance Strategy    Districts
Clb                               Formulate cost-effective  Studies        Completed.
norms for primary                        A policy not yet
school rehabilitation and                formulated.
maintenance
C3        National Education Trust Establish NETF/DETFs                           Done
Fund
Provide grants to private  10 new, 50   311 grants provided
secondary schools     rehabilitated



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                  Page 22
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operations
Project Component                      Status & Issues                             Action to be taken
Part A - Development of Institutional   All components completely implemented.    In general, there is need for follow-up action on all items
Capacity for Planning and  Some of these rather late in the project  to evaluate impact and suggest remedies as necessary.
Management of Educational   period, so not yet tested.
Programs
(i) Management Training           Completed in excess of planned numbers.  No feed back or evaluation made on impact of training. It
is advisable to make a sample evaluation to verify if
training produced improvements in the work place of those
trained.
(ii) Refurbishing of MANTEP       The refurbishing was completed late in the    MANTEP to produce, annually, a full program and budget
life of the project, at a much higher level and   of planned and preventive maintenance so as to retain the
cost than assumed in the SAR.           value of the investment made.
MANTEP to develop their plan of action and work
program under its new role as a self-financing agency.
(iii) MOEC Information Collection,    Component completed. The department is    Need to develop a work program to expand dissemination
Analysis, and Dissemination    now computerized.                       and make the information more relevant to future
education sector planning.
iv) Strengthening the Examination  Component completed.                   Establish cooperative effort with the Education Statistics
Council                                                                Office. Ensure that the results of the examinations provide
informnation on quality of education and school
performance.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                      Page 23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operations
Project Component                       Status & Issues                               Action to be taken
(v) Building Research Capacity -   Planned studies completed. Work program   BERE to promote themselves to carry out research for
University of Dar es Salaam     now in place. Library materials, vehicles and   government, NGOs, and the private sector.
software supplied in full.
Part B - Qualitative Improvements  All components completed.                 Follow-up to evaluate impart.
(i) Institute of Curriculum        Construction of new buildfinas nNnd
Development/Tanzania Institute of  refurbishment of currently used buildings.  bookt productionei    theroleandrreniritreso nsifblI. Fnds.
Education                                                                 book production is no longer their responsibility. Funds
must be provided for TIE to provide in-service training to
school teachers and to direct and monitor the activities of
the Teachers' Research Centers. TIE to promote new
teaching methodologies and curricula.
TIE to produce a full program and budget of planned and
preventive maintenance annually so as to retain the value
of the investment made.
(ii) Libraries Component           All libraries provided as planned at the  It is important to receive feedback on use of libraries and
University of DSM, TTCs, selected        its impact on education of students and teachers at the
secondary schools, and selected pilot primary  beneficiary institutions.
schools.
(iii) Primary School Textbooks     The Book Management Unit (BMU) was
(this component was funded by SIDA    assisted to increase its capacity in producing   There is need to formalze the functions of BMU under th
and carried out as parallel financing)    and distributing textbooks an-d reading books
to the primary schools.                  It is necessary for the MOEC to work closely with TIE,
BMU and the Association of Private Publishers to ensure



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 Page 24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operations
Project Component                      Status & Issues                             Action to be taken
that publication of relevant textbooks and reading books
occurs regularly and becomes available in schools so as to
retain the current pupil/book ratio of 3:1.
(iv) Secondary School Textbooks   Textbooks provided as planned.          TIE to continue updating the science and other cufficulum
needed for the enhanced secondary program.
Part C - Mobilization of Community   All components completed.            As stated below.
Resources
(i) Rehabilitation of Primary School    Most of the 750 schools, plus 48 additional
Buildings And Supply of Furniture  schools, have completed rehabilitation as  PMO/LG to verify how many schools during the last phase
and Equipment                  planned in four phases. Each phase utilized a  are still not completed, and determine how remaining work
different method of procurement and     would be financed. PMO/LG must continue a public
listic s,                              relations program to maintain the current decision of the
communities to participate in the maintenance
improvement and up-keep of their schools. The Human
Resources Development Project now being implemented
will help maintain this community intervention through the
CEF. GOT should finance payments outstanding at the
closing of the credit.
(ii) Rehabilitation of Non-government  NETF operated this component utilizing the   NETF to carry out an inquiry to establish the number of
Secondary Schools Supported by    US$8.0 million provided as a grant by  beneficiary schools not yet completed and to recommend
NETF                           NORAD. 311 grants were awarded.         how outstanding work will be completed.



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 25
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2137-TA)
Table 7: Stiudies Included in Project
Study             Purpose as defined at        Date of           Impact of Study
appraisal redefined      Completion
1. Evaluation of the  For use of ICD/TIE               1988        - Text book production and
use of textbooks in the                                           distribution policy.
classroom and the use                                             - Coordination of book
of instruction time                                               production
(Dept. of Education,
University of DSM)                                                - Cutting down of
extracurricular activities -
celebrations, rallies, festivals
etc.
- Revision of some text books
- Introduction of multi-textbook
approach
2. Proposals for an  For use by MOEC                   1991       -Rationalization of Teacher
appropriate teacher                                               Training and deployment
salary structure                                                  - Rationalization of budget
(Galabawa,                                                        ceilings and personal
Mutumbuka &                                                       emoluments
Mukyanuzi)
3. Measures to reduce   For use by MOEC               1997       Policy cost sharing:
gaps between school                                               - De-boarding of some
fees paid by students in                                          govemment schools
government and private
schools (Dept. of                                                - Empowerment of school
Planning, MOEC)                                                  committees in proposing realistic
fees levels
- Opening up of more private
schools
- Competition for quality of
education offered by the school.
4. Responsibilities and  For use by MOEC and          1993       -Decentralization of sc]nool
roles of Education    MANTER                                      management
Managers (Galabawa)                                              - Empowerment of school
committees /boards



Implementation Completion Report                                            Page 26
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at        Date of            Impact of Study
appraisal redefined      Completion
5. Establishment of   For use by MOE of Zanzibar      1994       - Donor coordination in provision
Zanzibar TRC (RV                                                  of the teacher in-service training
Lange)                                                           - Cost cutting measures in
Teacher In-service Training
6. Unit cost of       For MOEC                        1995        - Policy on cost sharing
education and the                                                 - Demand Financing (CEF)
willingness and
caaiyo* prnst                                                  - Empowerment of school
capacity of parents to                                            Comtesr Bad
share cost (Mukyannzi
& Omari)                                                          - Rationalization of fees charged
7. Criteria that districts  For MOEC, PM/LG and       1994       - Identification of disadvantaged
should use in locating   NETF                                    areas for targeted government
and building new                                                 subsidy
schools (Sumra)                                                  - Rationalization of establishment
of Government day schools
8. Methods used in the  For use of ICDME              1995       - Registration of Secondary
Teaching of Science                                              schools only if have laboratories
(Leeds University)                                               - Coordination of donor inputs for
lab improvement and supply of
science materials
- Enhanced efforts in In-service
training for science Teachers
9. Improvement of     From VEC for MOEC               1995       - Faster processing of BEST and
MIS-Statistics Section                                           feedback
of MOEC (MERIT)                                                  - Production of BEST Data
analysis pamphlet
- Subsequent improvement of
desegregated data capture
10. Review of the ICD   ICDME                    1996            - Policy on Textbooks production
and Five-year Business                                           and distribution
Plan (SAGRIC)                                                    - Identification of a critical path
for curriculum improvement



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 27
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study            Purpose as defined at       Date of             Impact of Study
appraisal redefined      Completion
I1. Strengthening    For UDSM                         1996       Expanded scope for research by
Bureau of Education                                              BERE
Research (BERE)
(SAMOFF)
12. Expansion of     MOEC                             1996       - Enrollment of private sector in
Secondary Education in                                           provision of Secondary education
Tanzania                                                         - Will lead into refinement of
(Mwenisolongale)                                                 Secondary Education Master Plan
13. Monitoring and   MOEC                             1996       - Identification of monitorable
Evaluation of Public                                             indicators
Programs in Tanzania                                             - Establishment of monitoring
(Ugullum R.)                                                     system for education
achievements
14. Pre-Study for    NECTA                            1996       - Piloting of and identification of
mechanization of                                                 appropriate technology for data
NECTA and MOEC                                                   capture
Statistics section
15. Procurement      MOEC                             1997       - Decentralization of procurement
Procedure for MOEC                                               responsibilities and levels to
lower organs (e.g CEF)
- Systematization of procurement
at center.



Implementation Completion Report                                            Page 28
Tanzania
Education Planning & Rehabilitation Project
Table 8A: Project Cost
Components                    Appraisal Estimate        Latest Estimate
(US$ mil)               (US$ mil)
Item                     Local  Foreign  Total Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs          costs   costs
1. Strengthening of Sector Planning and
Management
(a) Strengthening of Education Management  1.3    1.2       2.5    1.0    1.2       2.2
(b) Development of MOEC Information Base   0.3    0.5       0.8   0.4    0.7        1.1
(c) Education Research and Studies         0.8    0.6        1.4   1.6    1.3       2.9
Subtotal:                                    2.4    2.3       4.7   3.0    3.2        6.2
2. Improvement of Education Quality
(a) Strengthening of ICD                   0.8    1.5       2.3   0.7    1.4        2.1
(b) Improvement of Science Teaching         1.0    3.4      4.4    1.0    3.0       4.0
(c) Strengthening of BMU                   0.0    0.3       0.3    -       0.1      0.1
(d) Provision of Primary Textbooks         2.2    9.5      11.7   2.2    9.8       12.0
(e) Provision of Secondary Textbooks       0.6    1.5       2.1   0.6    1.6        2.2
(f) Upgrading of School Libraries          0.4    2.6       3.0   0.4    2.5        2.9
Subtotal:                                    5.0   18.8      23.8   4.9   18.4       23.3
3. Mobilization of Community Resources
(a) Rehab/Maintenance of Primary Schools   9.3    6.3       15.6  13.35    4.45     17.8
(b) *NETF Support for Secondary Schools     1.8    2.2      4.0   6.0    2.0        8.0
Subtotal:                                   11.1    8.5      19.6  19.35    6.45    25.8
4. Total Baseline cost                      18.5   29.6      48.1  27.25   28.05    55.3
Physical Contingencies                        1.8    2.7      4.5   0.9    1.4        2.3
Price Contingencies                         10.1    4.8       14.9   3.7    1.7       5.4
Total Project Costs/l                       30.4   37.1      67.5  31.85   31.15    63.0
* Latest estimated Total is greater than the allocation as per appraisal because of the increase of the
NORAD grant to NETF from 4M to 8M USD.
Includes duties and taxes estimated at US$3.9 million equivalent.



Implementation Completion Report                                               Page 29
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2137-TA)
Table 8B: 'Project Financing (US$M)
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Source       Local       Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total
costs       costs                    costs       costs
IDA              15.8        22.5         38.3        18.53        15.31       33.841
NORAD             2.0          2.9         4.9         3.25         4.75        8.0
SIDA              0.7        11.3         12.0          N/A         N/A        12.0
GOT               5.5         0.4          5.9          N/A         N/A        11.3 2
Communities       6.4         0.0          6.4         3.0          0.0         3.0
TOTAL            28.1        39.4         67.5        26.9         36.5        63.4
SDR 5.3 million (US$7.65 million equivalent) was canceled following the mid-term review.
2 Not verifiable.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                   Page 30
TANZANLA
Education Planning & Rehabilitation Project
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA      Description of Covenants   Covenant    Present      Original      Actual                 Comments
Reference                               Class      Status        Date         Date
Article 3   Shall adopt improved         12       Complied    January 1,   January 1,   Memorandum from Task Manager on
Section    timetables of primary and                with         1993         1994      March 7,1995. Waived.
3.04       secondary schools.
Article 3   Shall (a) continue to        11         Not        January 1,    June 30,   Memorandum from Task Manager on
Section    implement measures to                  complied       1990         1994      March 7, 1995. Waived this covenant.
3.05       reduce the gap between fees              with
paid in government, and
community secondary
schools; (b) ensure that at
least half of increase in
revenue shall be retained by
the government secondary
schools concerned.
Article 3   Shall furnish for review a   05       Complied     June 30,                 The Government has revised upward
Section    proposal for revision of                 with         1991                  teachers' salaries twice since the start
3.07      teacher salaries                                                              of the project.



lmplementation Completion Report                                                                                 Page 31
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA      Description of Covenants   Covenant   Present      Original     Actual                 Comments
Reference                              Class      Status       Date         Date
Article 3   Shall establish NETF and    05       Complied    June 30,                 Completed after delay.
Section    appoint its Board, Secretariat          with        1991
3.9       and Technical Unit.
Article 4   Shall have the records and  01      Compliance                            Due 12/31 annually. Completed after
Section    accounts for each fiscal year        after delay                           delay. Up-to-date to FY92, FY93,
4.01(b)    audited by independent                                                      FY94, and FY95 in audits. Incomplete
auditors.                                                                   audits for FY96 were received from
MOEC. Audits for FY97 were
received before the due date.
Schedule   Evaluation of the use of     13       Complied    December    December   Study completed.
4.6(bXi)  textbooks and instructional              with       31, 1990     31, 1995
time.
Schedule   Method for teaching science  13       Complied    December    December   Study completed
4.6(bXii)  and mathematics.                        with       31, 1990     31, 1995
Schedule   Costs of education and       13      Compliance   December    June 30,   Completed after delay.
4.6(bXiii)  willingness and capacity to         after delay    31, 1990      1992
share costs.                                                                                                 l



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                   Page 32
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA      Description of Covenants   Covenant   Present       Original      Actual                 Comments
Reference                             Class(es)    Status        Date         Date
Schedule   Budgetary implications of     13      Compliance   December    October 3,   MOEC states that study was done for
4.6(b)(iv)  various policies for financing       after delay    31, 1990      1996      sector work (Teachers and Financing
education.                          .                                        of Education).
Schedule   Responsibilities and roles of  13     Compliance   December   April 4, 1996  Study completed.
4.6(b)(v)   education sector managers in         after delay    31, 1990
a decentralized system.
Schedule   Criteria that districts should  13    Compliance   December                  Study completed
4.6(b)(vi)  use in locating and building         with delay    31, 1990
new schools.
Schedule   Pre-investment study.         13      Compliance   December                  Study nearing completion.
4.6b(vii)                                        with delay    31,1990
Schedule   Shall host two seminars on    05      Compliance  October 18,                In compliance.
4.6(c)     strategy for the education                            1991
sector with donors involved
in the sector.
Shall furnish the recommendat
Schedule                                 12       Complied    December    March 6,   Completed after delay.
4.6(d)                                              with       31, 1994       1996



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 Page 33
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA      Description of Covenants   Covenant   Present     Original      Actual                 Comments
Reference                                         Status       Date         Date
Schedule   Shall evaluate the experience  12    Compliance   December    December   Study completed.
4.8(c)    in the pilot schools and                            31, 1993     31, 1995
complete revisions in the
science syllabus
incorporating the results of
the evaluation.
Schedule  Shall obtain the reprint and  12         Not        June 30,    October 3,  Waived per Government request on
4.9(b)    adaptation rights to                   complied      1991          1996     April 22, 1993.
appropriate textbooks in                with
science, English, and
mathematics.
Schedule   Shall agree on adequate      12       Complied    March 31,    March 31,   Due annually. Study Completed.
4.10(a)    allocation of funds for                 with        1991          1992
textbook development, field
testing, printing, distribution
and teacher orientation.
Schedule   Shall gradually increase     11       Complied     July 31,   July 31, 1992  Due annually. TSh 332,363,000 was
4.10(b)    annual budgetary allocation             with        1991                   allocated in FY92; TSh 436,507,000 in
for the minimum primary                                                    FY93; TSh 825,000,000 in FY94; TSh
textbook package.                                                          1,025,000,000 in FY95.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 Page 34
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA      Description of Covenants   Covenant   Present      Original     Actual                Comments
Reference                              Class      Status       Date         Date
Schedule  Shall announce that           12      Compliance    June 30,    October 3,  It was announced 12/30/96.
4.11      complementary marketing               after delay    1991         1996
channels are allowed to open
and operate to facilitate
purchases of additional
textbooks from private
sources.
Schedule  Furnish list of 100 primary   03      Compliance   December    October 3,  Completed after delay.
4.1 1(a)(i)  schools who met the criteria       with delay    31, 1990      1996
for 1 st yr. of rehab. work.
Schedule   Shall prepare and discuss a  03        Soon        June 30,    August 31,  Consultant being recruited to assist
4.11 a(ii)  comprehensive school                               1991         1994      with revising and implementing
maintenance policy/strategy,                                               strategy
providing for a gradual                                                    Development phase of school
increase in recurrent                                                      maintenance strategy pilot project.
allocations for school
maintenance.



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Page 35
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2137-TA)
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned            Revised               Actual
State of Project         Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$
Cycle
Preparation to            N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A    123.30      270.00
Appraisal
Negotiations through      N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A     15.80       37.50
Board Approval
Supervision             50.20     217.10    59.40    236.00    277.30      710.40
Completion              26.00      37.00    26.00     37.00      2.40        1.30
Total                   76.20     254.10    85.40     273,00    418.80    1,019.20
N/A: Not Available.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                  Page 36
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project     MonthJ  Number          Days in Field         Specialized    Performance           Types of Problems
Year       of                                Staff Skills     Rating
Persons                            Represented
Appraisal Thru Board
Preappraisal             02/89  1           10 (Feb. 7 - 17)
Appraisal                05/89       3      18 (May 1-19)
Negotiation               01/90
Board                    05/90
Supervision
11/90      1      0                       Education        1              Delays in completing Agreement
between IDA and NORAD with
respect to NETF. Textbook approval
processes need to be established as
soon as possible. Serious weakness in
accountancy and disbursement
process in MOEC. DSM needs to be
re-located to ensure coordination
. ______________  ______________    with   rest of project.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                 Page 37
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/  Number          Days in Field         Specialized     Performance          Types of Problems
Year       of                               Staff Skills       Rating
Persons                            Represented
03/91       1     12                     Education         1               Delays in appointment of TA in
accounts section of MOEC. Legal
agreement with NORAD on co-
financing NETF component not yet
finalized.
09/91       1     (July 31 -Sept. 9)     Education         1               The acceptance by the GTZ of a
policy for private sector publication
of textbooks. Potential difficulties
in working relationship between
MOEC and PMO/LG with the
establishment of separate PIU for
the latter. Slow pace of activities in
the science curriculum program and
School Equip. Dev. Unit.
10/92      4      20 (Oct. 3-23)         Education         2              Proj. account in poor shape. MOEC
Civil Engineering                unlikely to be in a position to
Finance/Mgmt.                    prepare documentation requesting
Economics                        replenishment in a timely manner.
NETF needs reshaping to be a true
NGO. Government seems more
interested in increasing external
resources than in efficient
implementation.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                               Page 38
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/  Number         Days in Field        Specialized    Performance           Types of Problems
Year       of                              Staff Skills      Rating
Persons                          Represented
03/93      3      23 (March 1-23)       Social Services   2              Project Coordinator is overloaded
Finance/Mgmt.                   with non project work. Textbook
Economics                       liberalization process slow,
frustrating publishers. The mode of
monitoring and paying for school
rehabilitation needs to be worked
out. Water supply for pilot schools
not yet resolved.
11/93      4                            Education        3              Unsatisfactory project accounts.
Specialist                      Failure to appoint an experienced
Social Services                 Project Accountant despite repeated '
Finance/Mgmt.                   reassurances to the Bank over a
Economist                      three year period. Inadequate project
accountability as reflected in
qualified audit reports.
Midterm Review           10/94      5      12                    Proj. Implem.    U               Lack of attention to Bank
Spec.                           procurement procedures.
Education                       Inadequate coordination among
Planner                         PlUs. NETF component slowed
Fin/Accounting                  down by delayed response from
Spec.                           NORAD on amendment to Grant
Economist                       Agreement.
Education
Planner
06/95      2      11                    Social Services   U              Delayed and unfavorable audit
Specialist.                     report for PMO/LG component.
Economist



Implementation Completion Report                                                                                   Page 39
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project    Month/   Number    Days in Field           Specialized       Perfor              Types of Problems
Year        of                             Staff Skills     mance
Persons                         Represented       Rating
03/96        7      15 (Feb. 19 - Mar.  Economist           S        Low disbursements because of devaluation of
6)                Education Specialist          the Shilling. Because of this, full disbursement
Financial/Acct. Spec.          of the Credit would be unlikely even with a
Accountant                     project extension.
Proj. Implem. Spec.            Complicated GOT procedures make it difficult
Architect                      for PIUs to obtain adequate counterpart funds
_________   _ _______  _______________  ___________________   _______     on    a   tim ely   basis.
09/96       3                        Financial/Acet. Sec.    S       Inadeouate counteraprt finds. Qalifie-d altditc
Proj. Implem. Spec.            for PMO/LG component.
02/97       6      28                 Financial Specialist  S
Economist                      Weak management of the National Education
Social Sectors Spec.           Trust Fund.
Accountant
Architect.
10/97       2      10                Economist              S       Counterpart funding still a problem.
Accountant                     Accountability issues raised in audit of NETF
component.
Completion             4/98         5      31 (Mar. 19 - Apr.  Education Planner   S        Cost overruns on the NETF and PMO/LG
16)              Social Services                 components
Specialist
Education Specialist
Civil Engineer
Accounting Specialist



implementation Completion Report                            Appendix A
TANZANIA
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2137-TA)
Implementation Completion Mission
(March 19-April 16,1998)
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A mission consisting of Mr. George Hadjicostas (Civil Engineer, consultant), Ms.
Lavinia Gasperini (Education Specialist), Dr. Emmanuel Malangalila, (Population and
Human Resources Operations Officer, Resident Mission), Mr. Barney I. S. Laseko
(Project Management Specialist, Resident Mission), and Mr. Donald Hamilton, (Mission
Leader) initiated preparation Qf the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
Education, Planning and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2137-TA) (EPRP) in Tanzania from
March 19 to April 16, 1998. This mission was done at the same time as the first
supervision mission for the Human Resources Development Project.
2.    The mission met with Dr. Ben Moses, Permanent Secretary Prime Minister's
Office (PM/LG) (for the Local Government component), Mr. A. R. M. S. Rajabu,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC), Directors and Heads
of Institutions involved with the Project in both ministries and worked closely with Mr.
David Bagenda (Project Coordinator, MOEC), Mr. Severin Ndunguru (Project
Coordinator PM/LG), the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the National Education
Trusit Fund (NETF), Mr. Solemn Hamade, and Mr. Maurice Kasogela (Acting Executive
Director, NETF. The mission also visited the National Examinations Council of Tanzania
(NECTA), Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE), the Institute of Management Training
for Education Personmel (MANTEP), and the Bureau of Education Research and
Evaluation (BERE), and made field visits to Morogo, Iringa, and Mbeya Regions, during
which they visited a selection of schools rehabilitated or equipped by the project. They
met central and local government officials, and key stake holders including, school
boards, teachers, students and parents, to discuss their implementation experiences and
the imnpact of the EPRP in their areas. The mission also visited Zanzibar, where they met
with Mr. Haroun Suleimnan, Principal Secretary, Ministry of Education and the
Commissioner of Education. Meetings were also held in Dar es Salaam with NORAD
(NETF component), and with SIDA who supported the Primary School Textbooks
component outside the project. A summary of the main findings of the mission were
presented at a meeting of the donors to the education sector as a group. The Mission's
Draft Aide Memoire containing their initial findings were discussed, on April 16,1998 at
the Wrap-Up Meeting chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MOEC.
3.    The Mission received the GOT Completion Report and had the opportunity to
discuss with the Project Coordinators some of the comments made there-in on Bank's
performance.



Appendix A
4.    The Mission wishes to thank government officials, staff of educational
institutions, communities and donor agencies and the Project Coordinators and their
personnel for giving generously of their time to assist the mission.
Background and Project Objectives
5.    The EPRP was the Eighth Education Project financed by IDA in Tanzania. (Credit
initially US$ 38.3 million was reduced to US$32.0 million after cancellation of some
funds). It was an ambitious projecl: designed as the minimum package to address what the
appraisal mission stated (in 1990) as the "enormous challenges" facing the sector at the
time. It was thought that to address these problems, the government would have needed a
broad based approach with several key facets including:
(a) development of a policy framework, sector strategy and detailed plans'for
implementation of the strategy,
(b) institutional capacity building, including salary incentives for education sector
staff,
(c) unit cost reductions in kcey areas of the education system, and
(d) increased resource allocations to the sector.
6.    To be effective these various areas needed to be developed in a coordinated way,
and it was clear that several years would be needed to achieve satisfactory results. The
system was not ready to meet these challenges at the time because of the economic
recession which had eroded the institutional capacity and physical infrastructure of the,
education system. At the same time it was also evident that it would not have been
appropriate to wait until an accepted strategic and institutional framework had been
developed before making investments in the sector to address the urgent needs in primary
and secondary education.
7.    A decision was therefore made to adopt a compromise approach which would:
(a) strengthen sector strategy and action plans for the short and medium term;
(b) build capacity to develop and implement strategies efficiently; and
(c) make selective investments in areas which needed urgent attention.
8.    This was seen as the first phase of a "multi-stage" program that would be
implemented through to the year 2000 and beyond. With this as a backdrop, the main
objectives of the project were:
(a) To strengthen institutional capacity to plan and implement appropriate and
effective educational policies and programs through:
(i) training of managers,
(ii) imnprovements in the information base;
(iii) strengthening education research for policy development; and
(iv) preparation of policy and subsector studies in specific areas.
2



Appendix A
(b) To improve the quality of education at the primary and secondary levels
through:
(i) strengthening the capacity of the Institute of Curriculum Development
(ICD) to produce textbooks and educational materials;
(ii) improving the methods for teaching of science;
(iii) further developing the capacity to provide and use textbooks effectively
in schools; and .
(iv) upgrading libraries in primary and secondary schools, colleges and at the
university of Dar-es-Salaam.
(c) To strengthen the mobilization and effective utilization of non-governnment
resources and support for education through:
(i) community involvement in the 4evelopment of a school maintenance
and rehabilitation strategy for primary schools especially in deprived
areas; and
(ii) creating the National Education Trust Fund (NETF) to promote
establishment of secondary schools with community involvement.
9.    These objectives were extended after the mid-term review to also include as a
pretest:
(a) the Community Education Fund (CEF) approach, through which community
funds collected for educational purposes are matched on an 1:1 or 2:1 ratio, to
finance school based plans for the development of primary education prepared
and implemented by the communities; and
(b) a fund for Girls Secondary Education Scholarships (GSES) to promote
increased participation of girls in secondary schools.
10.   These modifications and additions were a reflection of policy evolution influenced
by extensive education sector studies (some financed under the project) and discussions
during the period. These two components are the major components of the recently
launched Human Resources Development Pilot Project (HRDP) Cr.- 2991-TA.
11.   Given the conditions prevailing in the sector at the time, it was acknowledged that
there were serious risks associated even with this compromise approach. The first risk
was that capacity deficiencies in the sector would hamper project implementation. The
second was that in the absence of a clearly defined policy framework and implementation
strategy for the sector, unanticipated policy changes could emerge that would change the
pace and direction of the reform. These risks appeared ir various forms during project
implementation, adversely affecting achievement of project objectives. It is noted that the
mitigating provisions designed in the SAR, namely technical assistance to strengthen
management capacity, especially in the area of accounting, were not fully utilized by the
Project Coordinating teams. Also, the consensus which was thought to have been
developed during appraisal around some key issues turned out to be fragile.
3



Appendix A
Implementation Experience and Results
12.   This section evaluates achievement of project objectives, and reviews the
implementation experience overall and for the various components. Inspite of various
difficulties and delays especially at the inception of project implementation, the project
was satisfactorily implemented and had a positive impact on the development of the
sector. The institutional capacity for policy analysis and implementation was
strengthened, and studies financed under the project were the basis for key policy
decisions taken during that period. School quality was also improved through the
provision of textbooks and library books, and significant gains were made in increasing
the involvement of communities in school rehabilitation and maintenance. The pilot of
the CEF and GSES were also very successful and led to the expansion of the pilot in the
subsequent project.
13. Although project implementation was satisfactory on the whole, success in the
implementation of the various comrLponents varied. Strengthening of Institutional Capacity
to Plan and Implement Appropriate and Effective Educational Policies and Programrs.
The objectives of this component were largely achieved. The target number of
educational managers, school heads, and librarians and others from the central and local
levels were trained as planned, and have been assigned to various parts of the country.
The impact of these managers is certain to have positive effects on the education systemL
The physical facilities and equipment at MANTEP have also been upgraded ( at a cost
far in excess of what it was provided in the SAR)to increase capacity and improve the
work environment, providing opportunities for diversification of training programs and
income earning activities.' The statistical information systems of the Ministry of
Education and NECTAR were significantly improved, with the annual publication of a
statistical bulletin "Basic Education Statistics" (BEST) which includes data on basic
education indicators and examinations. A core of educational planners and researchers
from the MOEC and the University of Dar-Es-Salaam were trained as planned, and a
number of research studies financed under the project fed into key policy documents such
as the "Education and Training Strategy Paper" and provided the basis for key policy
decisions taken at the time.
14.   While this is a substantial improvement on the conditions prevailing at the time
the project was appraised, there is still need for further strengthening of this area of the
education sector. Primary education data is still not available at the central level in a
form that would permit detailed policy analysis, and the data on examinations is not
distributed in a form that would help schools identify leamning weaknesses, and has only
limnited distribution. There was also limited success in developing data on expenditures
on education and linking them with educational outcomes. The effectiveness of the
training provided by MANTEP is ilso limited. The institution only provides a two year
generic course for educational marnagers which does not completely satisfy the needs of
managers and schools heads who work in very varied circumstances. This is particularly
true of the emerging management i2eeds in the area of community involvement in
provision of education. The quality of education provided is also uncertain given the
weak training capacity of MANTEP. A significant proportion of staff trained under the
project have left the institution and. MANTEP has not used the technical assistance
4



Appendix A
provided in the project to upgrade training. The cost of refurbishing MANTEP, as well as
its operational costs seem to be high. There is a danger that as the decision to reduce
government support for recurrent expenditures is implemented, MANTEP's operations
will become unsustainable without increased management efficiency.
15.   There is a risk that the sustainability of the planning and research capacity would
be somewhat weakened now that the university is not directly linked to the MOEC but in
a diferent Ministry. The institutional interest on the part of BERE in researching policy
issues on education considered priority by the MOEC might become diluted. This partly
explains the practice under the project of awarding research contracts on an individual
rather than institutional basis. Institutional contracts would have afforded the opportunity
to develop skills in the management of resources and highly skilled staff in the
production of quality studies. Also, there may be difficulties in maintaining effective
collaboration on research programs between the two agencies. There has also been a
recent decision to set-up ad hoc task forces withstaff assigned from the Planning Unit,
outside the normal institutional framework of the MOEC. This could substantially reduce
the effectiveness of the Unit in carrying out its main functions.
16.   Quality Improvement of Primary and Secondary Education Strengthening of the
ICD/Tanzania Institute of Education (TIE) was achieved but not as originally designed.
The buildings were scaled down to be consistent with the policy change which moved
textbooks preparation from the TIE to the private sector. The Teacher Resource Centers
were also built, but the decision not to develop science equipment prototypes, for which
the TRCs were going to provide support, led to some uncertainty on how they should be
used. Six of the seven Principles of the Teacher Training Institutes who were trained in
the use of these centers have now been re-assigned to other duties. The decision to
introduce a new integrated science curriculum for forms I and 2 and mathematics was
suspended, because it was feared by some teachers and parents that it would lower the
quality of education. This further increased doubts about the role of the TRCs where in-
service training would have been provided to teachers on the new methods. To address
the situation the MOEC undertook to prepare an altemative plan for use of the centers as
supplementary resources for Teacher Training Institutions to which they were attached,
and schools in the catchement areas where they are located. This plan is yet to be
implemented. The TRCs are currently being used for variety of activities as determined
by the TTCs to which they are associated. The TRC in Zanzibar was substantially
increased in size (with govemment funds) and integrated into a complex of new buildings
to form the nucleus of an Institute of Education of Zanzibar.
17.   The implementation of the Textbook Production and Distribution component was
also modified prior to the signing of the Development Credit Agreement, so that SIDA
and other donors would be responsible for primary school textbooks, while IDA would
provide secondary school textbooks. The Book Management Unit (BMU) which was
supported by the project as well as other donors such as SIDA, coordinated the
production and distribution of over one million copies of secondary school textbooks in
Mafths, English, Unified Science, Social Studies and Kiswahili which had been prepared
by the ICD when it was responsible for preparation of textbooks. This helped to reduce
the book:pupil ratio to 1:2 from 1:8.



Appertx7u A
18.   The GOT decided to privatize textbooks publishing as planned in 1991, and since
then there has been a gradual process of developing an institutional framework that would
permit full implementation of the new policy. The project's contribution to this process
which has been supported by other donors such as SIDA, has been through support to the
BMU for overseas training, consulting services, and equipment to help them transfer
responsibility for the technical production of books to the private sector. The response
from the private publishing firms seems to have been positive but slow, and textbooks
procured under the new privatization policy are beginning to appear on the market.
(Maththematics Form I to IV are now available in the market, while six publications,
mostly Reference books, have been sent to TIE for approval. However appears to be
continued to be latent opposition to the privatization move, and it is not clear how much
this would affect implementation of government's privatization policy.
19.   The physical targets for the provision of library books to primary and secondary
schools, collegesand the university were met. Staff in these institutions were also trained
at MANTEP in the management ol libraries. The selection of books was done by staff at
the center, and in some cases the titles did not always match the requests made by the
various schools. The chances of sustainability of this component would be improved by
implementation of a new library policy being developed by the MOEC which would
develop school libraries as an integrated system.
20.   Strengthening the Mobilization of Non-government Resources for Education
Developing School Maintenance Strategy for Primary Schools PMO/LG was responsible
to implement the primary school rehabilitation program. The project provided funding
for the supply of building materials, furniture, part of the labor costs, training of artisans
and site supervision amounting to about US$13.0 million (15% more than the estimated
cost of US$ 11 Mill) for the rehabilitation and provision of toilets, additional facilities
such as small stores and rmning water where possible.to about 798 schools against the
750 planned in the Project. ( At project closing 31.12.1998 the PMO/LG coordinator
reported outstanding payments of over US$ 1.2 million for contracts entered with
suplliers of building materials and allocations to Communities as counterpart funds to
their respective contributions. The reason for the cost overrun was on the one hand due to
the poor accounting system which recorded payments but not commitments, and also
because the PIU had allocated fumds to 48 more schools than planned at appraisal.
21.   The PMO/LG worked closely with the district education officers and local
authorities in selecting schools in every region following the criteria set out for
rehabilitation. The implementation of the project was undertaken in four phases, the first
phase (1991-92) covered to 100 schools; phase II (1992-93) 226 schools; phase m (1993-
94) 223 schools; and phases IV anid V (1994-95) related to 249 schools (48 schools in
excess of the project target). Phase one did not follow the policy of rehabilitating schools
and instead additional classrooms, staff housing and toilets were constructed in 88 of the
I00 selected school sites. This decision was taken as a result of a consultants survey
report which recommended that schools should be rebuilt instead of rehabilitated. This
practice was reversed in 1992 when the visitng mission found that there had been an error
ofjudgement with regard to replacing schools. The technical supervision teams were
established and they provided oversight of construction quality on school sites. Weak'
6



Appendix A
accounting and monitoring systems led to an over comittment of funds in the
rehabilitation component, which has caused cost-overruns on the project estimated at
US$2 million. The pilot schools built to illustrate low maintenance buildings were well
executed but appeared too costly for widespread use.
22.   Supported to Community Financed Secondary Schools The NETF was
established under the project as planned, and over 300 grants were awarded to help in the
rehabilitation of secondary schools. However, it is not clear that the original objectives of
this component were met. As originally designed, the project was to set up an NGO
through which funds would be channeled in an impartial way to District Education Trust
Funds (DETF) and similar organizations for the establishment of new secondary schools.
This component was to be co-financed by NORAD. These funds were to be used to
match community funds for the construction of 10 new schools, completion and
equipping of 50 schools, school materials and equipment for rehabilitation, and inservice
teacher training. This description was changed after project approval to provide grants to
communities to upgrade physical facilities, improve education quality through provision
of educational materials and equipment, and upgrading teacher skills, and to carry out any
other tasks approved by the NETF. This change in objectives and the lack of clarity of
how the NETF would operate led to serious problems during implementation.
23.   There were difficulties in appointing non-government officials as board members
of NETF as planned, there were no clear financial systems for managing the funds
awarded to the communities, and instead of channeling funds to DETFs, NETF was
duplicating the roles of the former, and in the process built up a high cost capacity to
monitor the use of grants in the field. In addition, the project did not include operational
funds for NETF, and when this was added during implementation the cost basis used was
far higher than is normally used by NGOs, and led to the equivalent of 18% of the grants
as overheads. The quality and scope of work performed by the communities which
receive grants is difficult to determine or audit, and there is evidence that there are a
number of schools where the planned tasks would not be completed because of NETF
over-commitment, or slow construction by school administrators. The govemment is
aware that NETF cannot continue to operate under these conditions, and one option being
considered is for NETF to be self financing. The future role of NETF is being reviewed
and a decision will be taken shortly. There is also a recognition of the need to find
effective ways to financing expansion of secondary schools. This issue is being
addressed in the context of the New Master Plan for Secondary Education currently being
developed under the SDP.
24.   Community Education Funds and Girls Secondary School Fellowships Following
the mixed experiences with the implementation of the primary school rehabilitation and
the NETF components, the govermment decided to try alternative methods for helping
rural communities. The Project design was therefore modified to include a pilot
component that would (i) provide funds to match community contributions for
development of primary schools, based on an approved plan developed and implemented
by communities, and (ii) establish a fund for financing scholarships for girls going to
secondary schools. Implementation of these components started in 1996, and the
experience was successful in providing matching grants to 135 schools and 733
7



Appendix A
scholarships to girls. The experiences of this pilot were further developed and formed ilhe
basis of the new Human Resources Development Project. Unfortunatly the PMO/LG is
not involved in the pilot. This creates uncertainties as to whether they would be ready to
take over the management of these programs when it is decided to implement them on a
large scale. A table of Key Indicators for Future Project Operations is ahown as
annex 1.
Factors which Affected Implementation
25.   The main factors which affected project implementation are also related to the
risks identified in the project documents. The policy framework was unclear, and there
were some unexpected policy changes. Institutional capacity was also too weak to handle
some of the more innovative components and to coordinate a project which covered a
multiplicity of agencies in two ministries. In addition, some components like the NETF
were not fully thoughtout or prepared before they were included in the project.
Inadequate project preparation also adversely affected the primary school rehabilitation
component. A system for procurement of materials for construction was not fully defined
and had to be addressed in an ad hoc manner of tial and error during implementation.
Procurement of these materials was gradually decentralized over the four phases to the
districts which were unprepared to use Bank procurement guidelines,. As a result, while
this improved logistical problems in getting materials to school sites, there continued to
be difficulties in getting the regions / districts to account for the funds, and for PMO/LG
to monitor the procurement process, the deivery and use of materials.
26.   The absence of a clear and ccnsistent policy framework on the textbooks
component delayed support to the ICD, at the very inception of the project. The reversal
of the policy on teaching of science also delayed construction and commissioning of the
TRCs.
27.   Project implementation was challenging at several levels. Coordination of the
three loosely related components, and thirteen sub-components across a variety of
institutions proved to be unworkable, especially as the Project Co-ordinator was also
carrying out his normal duties as Director of Planning. The decision of having only one
Coordination Unit for a project to be implemented by two separate ministries proved
unworkable in the current structure of govermment administration. As a result, this
arrangement was changed during implementation resulting in three separate units. This
however posed other kinds of probleims. The key issue seems to have been that there was
no central agency on the government side with the authority to coordinate all the various
agencies involved in the project. For example there was no coordination in the provision
of project inputs to schools. New or rehabilitated schools did not receive books or
training for teachers and some of those which received books did not have adequate
storage facilities.
28.   The Project Units were also charged with using innovative implementation
methods. The primary school rehabilitation component was trying out devolution of civil
works supervision and procurement r esponsibilities to the local level using new Bank
Guidelines. NETF was working with completely new and untried procedures for helping
8



Appendix A
cormmunities, and with inadequate of understanding of the financial and procurement
requirements of NORAD and the Bank. This led to serious delays and
misunderstandings. NETF could not obtain the certificates of expenditure from recipients
of grants which were required for replenishmnent of their (NETF) accounts. All of these
problems led to misunderstandings among the funding agencies and government, and
caused significant delays in project implementation. These problems were compounded
by the economic crisis in Tanzania at the time which severely constrained provision of
counterpart funds. The re-organization of the Bank and consequent frequent changes in
Task Managers also creeated communication difficulties.
Implementation Record
29.   The project was initially expected to cost US$ 67.5 million (the IDA funding of
all the previous seven projects amounted to US$ 67.1) with IDA financing US$ 38.3
million, NORAD US$ 4.9 million, SIDA US$ 12.0 million, and the GOT and
communities US$ 12.3 million. NORAD's contribution was increased to US$ 8.0 million
after the DCA was signed. The SIDA grant was disbursed outside the project. The
distribution of the Credit was US$ 20.3 million (finally spent US$ 22.3 million) for civil
works, materials and equipment, and US$ 17.0 million (finally spent 9.44 million) for
educational materials. Over the period the dollar appreciated significantly making
additional funds ( in Tanzania shillings) available to the project. An amount of SDR 5.3
million (US$ 7.0 million) was canceled in 1996 and 400,000 SDR and 300,000 SDR
respectively were allocated for the CEF and GSES components respectively. A first re-
allocation of funds between categories was made after the mid-term review. A final re-
allocation was done on September,1997 and is shown in the Table below. The Credit was
extended by twelve months with a new closing date of December 31, 1997, to allow for
the completion of the ICD, the rehabilitation of schools, the disbursement of funds
managed by NETF, and the improvement of information base components.
30.   Bank Performance Bank performance was effective during project identification
and preparation. The team conducted a thorough analysis of issues in the sector and
options for addressing these issues, and decided on what at the time was considered a
risky, but pragmatic approach because of the urgent needs of the sector. Had the project
succeeded fully it would have prepared the sector to absorb the substantial resources
needed to address some problems that are still current. Performance at appraisal was
satisfactory, but some decisions were made which set the stage for future problems. The
decision to support the buildings for ICD partly because it was thought to be responsible
for textbooks development was questionable, given the climate of uncertainty about how
books would be authored in the future. The discussion of textbooks in the project
documents sends mixed messages. On the one hand supporting the relocation of ICD
mainly because of its role in textbooks preparation and at the same time promoting
private sector development for publishing. Also, the decision to include the NETF
component without adequate preparation or discussions with NORAD about the
objectives and description of the component, and the role of the Bank as Executing
Agency proved to be the source of problems during implementation.
9



Appendix A
31.  IDA undertook ten supervision missions (a Different Task manager every two
missions) Each supervision missiorn reviewed in full all activities under the project and
left behind extensive Aide Memoires and Schedules of Tasks to be carried out by the
Implementation Units. It was not always possible for these units to conclude these within
the time horizon set out by the Supervision missions, which resulted in delays in
disbursements and the need to extend the date of completion by one year.
28.   The ICR prepared by the Government on the one hand considers that Bank's full
involvement with the project implementation and the sound recommendations provided
was instrumental in the success of the project implementation. On the other hand PM/LG
and NETF although they found the Supervision Missions very useful they felt that the
frequency of change of Task Managers, and the attitude of some T/M who tended to be
more concerned with fault finding than assisting to address constraints in carrying out
the project did not help the implementation process.
29.   The observation of the Mission was that all supervisions undertaken had very
constructive results towards the completion of the Project with Disbursements increasing
following each supervision mission. It is possibly true that some Supervision Missions
seemed to place too much emphasis on disbursements, without recognizing that the
delays had been caused by legitimate policy discussions or design flaws which could
have been foreseen at appraisal. Given these conditions the Bank could have been more
supportive to the government while lthese changes were taking place. There also seems to
have been inadequate support to the borrower when decentralization of procurement was
been attempted. The mid-term review was used very effectively to take stock of issues
and make recommendations. Bank performance improved markedly in the latter years of
implementation.
30.   Borrower Performance was also satisfactory, during identification and
preparation but there were serious problems with some of the components. While there
was a clear vision of what was needed for the capacity building component, the policies
and strategies for some of the quality components was not as clear. This led to delays in
decision making and changes in policy especially in relation to methods for teaching
science. At appraisal, the borrower performance was satisfactory, but again positions
were taken on issues on which there was no consensus, example support for textbooks
development by ICD. The request to include the NETF component without a clear vision
of its role and how it would operate vas also unwise. This decision led to changes in
design that adversely limited the impact of what an institution such as NETF could have
had. During implementation borrower performance was satisfactory after a troubled stait
The Project Implementation Units also coped well with the restructuring of the Bank and
changes in procurement guidelines. There was a marked improvement once clear
decisions were taken on key issues especially after the mid-term review and most of the
targets were met although much later than expected. Management of project accounts
was a major weakness for all the three Implementation Units throughout the
implementation period, and resulted in cost overruns on three components. A major
weakness which continues to impact adversely on the sector is the lack of a
comprehensive vision of the sector and a mechanism for coordinating the various
ministries and agencies involved in the education. The attempt to force coordination
10



Appendix A
through the establishment of only one coordination unit for project implementation at the
beginning failed. Also the establishment of Special Implementation Units independent of
the line functions of a Ministry neither increased the implementation capacity nor helped
provide the opportunity for Institution building within the concerned Ministry.
Key Lessons Learned
31.   The following are some of the key lessons from this operation:
(a) It may not be appropriate to use the traditional project approach to address
issues in the sector where the policy frame work is unclear and institutional
capacity weak. An instrument such as an Adjustable Project Loan which
would have served to support a phased Intervention starting with policy
dialogue as planned by the appraisal mission. This option was not available at
the time.
(b) Decentralization of responsibilities and resources to local agencies and
institutions should only be done when clearly defined procedures for the use
and management of the funds have been established, including incentives for
local agencies to respect reporting and other accountability guidelines.
(c) Innovations should not be hastily included in projects (NETF) without
adequate discussion of the concept and detailed preparation of the component.
(d) In the case of co-financing and parallel or concurrent financing, of
components a under the project there should be full discussion and clear
understanding with government and the donors involved, on the design of the
component and the scope and nature of responsibilities of the various parties
involved in the project. This would have prevented the problems which arose
under the NETF component.
(e) For a trouble free, successful and early disbursement implementation there is
need for a well organized Pre-Start mission which will induct those who will
implement the project fully on the project content ,the Bank Guidelines and
agree on implementation timetables and note all aspects that would affect
adversely the implementation of the Project.
Africa Region
C:\DATA\WORD\tan\2137\eprpaide.doc
05/02/98 10:50 AM
11



Appendix A
Implementation Completion Report.
Tanzania - Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project
Credit No. 2137-TA
Key Indicators for Future Project Operations
Project Component                      Status & Issues                               Action to be taken
Part A - Development of Institutional   All Components completely implemented.    In general, there is need for follow up action on all items
Capacity for Planning and  Some of these rather late in the project period  to evaluate impact and suggest remedies as necessary.
Management of Educational   so not yet fully tested in place.
Programs
(a) Management Training            Completed in excess of Planned Numbers.    No feed back or evaluation made on impact of training. It
is advisable to make a sample evaluation to verify if
training produced improvements in the work place of those
trained.
(b) Refurbishing of MANTEP.        The Refurbishing was completed late in the    1. MANTEP to produce a full program and budget of
life of the Project, at a much higher level and   Planned and Preventive Maintenance annually so as to
cost than assumed in the SAR.           retain the value of the investment made.
2. MANTEP to develop their plan of action and work
program under its new role as a self-sustaining agency.
(c) MOEC Information Collection,  Component completed. The department is    There is need to develop a work program of how to
analysis and dissemination     now fully computerized.                  enlarge dissemination and make the information more
relevant to future education sector planning.
(d) Strengthening the Examination  Component fully competed.               To establish closer cooperation with the Education
Council                                                                 Statistics Office so that the results of the examinations
provide information on quality of education and school
perfornance.
(e) Building Research Capacity -  Planned studies completed. A work program   BERE to promote themselves both for government studies
University of DSM              now in place. Library materials, vehicles and   and studies for the private sector.
software supplied in full.



Appendix A
Future. ,xt Opeaions                      tsex
Page 2 of 3
Project Component                      Status & Issues                              Action to be takea
Part B - Qualitative Improvements  All components completed.               Follow-tip to evaluate impact
(a) Institute of Curriculum       Construction of new buildings and        There is need to re-define the role and activities of TIE
Development/Tanzania Institute of  refurbishment of currently used buildings.    now that book production is no longer tleir responsibility.
Education.                                                              Funds must be provided for TIE to provide in-service
training to school teachers and to direct and monitor the
activities of the Teachers' Research Centers (TRCs). TIE
to promote new inethodologies of teaching. and new
curricula.
TIE to produce a full program and budget of Planned and
Preventive Maintenance annually so as to retain the value
of the investment made.
(b) Libraries Component           All libraries provided as planned at the  It is important to receive feedback on use of libraries and
University of DSM, TTCs, selected       its impact on education of students and teachers at the
secondary schools and selected pilot primary  beneficiary institutions.
schools.
(c) Primary School Textbooks      The Book Management Unit (BMU) was      There is need to formalize the functions of BMU under the
(It is noted that this component was  assisted to increase its capacity in producing   new system of commercially produced textbooks.
finded by SlpA and'carried out by  and distributing textbooks and reading books  It is necessary for the MOEC to work closely with TIE,
them outside the credit)         to the primary schools.                  BMU and the Association of Private Publishers to ensure
that publication of relevant textbooks and reading books
occurs regularly and becomes available in schools so as to
retain the current pupil/book ratio of 3:1.
(d) Secondary School Textbooks    Textbooks provided as planned.          TIE to continue updating the science and other curriculum
needed for the enhanced secondary program.



Appendix A
Future. ACt Operations                  '.mx
Page 3 of 3
ProJect Component                     Status & Issues                              Action to be taken
Part C - Mobilization of Community    All components completed.           As stated below.
Resources
(a) Rehabilitation of primary School    All 750 schools rehabilitated as planned in    PM/LG to verify how many schools during Ihe last phase
Buildings And Supply of Furniture  four phases: each phase utilizing a different   are still not fully completed and to encourage the
and Equipment                  method of procurement and logistics.    comminities to provide any additional funding required.
PM/LG must continue a public relations program to
_ _           maintain the current decision of the communities to
participate in the mainte-nance imp.rovement an.d up-'keep
of their schools. The ninth education project now under
implementation will help maintain this community
intervention. GOT should finance payments outstanding at
the closing of the credit.
(b) Rehabilitation of Non-governmlent  NETF operated this component utilizing Ilte   NETF to carry out an inquiry lo establish the number of
Secondary Schools Supported by    US$ 8.0 million provided as a grant by  beneficiary schools not yet completed and to persuade the
NETF                           NORAD. 311 grants were awarded.         respective school committees to provide the needed funds
to complete the outstanding works.
NETF to re-orient their functions and become an umbrella
NGO providing funds to DEFTs, instead of continuing as
an operating NGO as was the case under this project.



Appendix A
TAN8ANWA
Zducation Planning and Rehabilitation Project (CR. 2137 TA)
Implemntation Completion Mission (March 19- April 16,1998)
Aid e Xemoire
Category                       Credit Allocation in SDR.
% Variation:Closing/Initial.
Initially    Kid Term      Closing and
Review         t
variation
category 1.                           1,970,000    2,S00,000    -3,00,000
Part A:C.W. MZENAP
Part S:C.W.TIE-TRCs-Univ.DSS                                       + 52.3 %
Furniture,9quipment,Vehicles          2,200,000    3,000,000      3,100,000
+ 40.9%
Secondary Textbooks etc               2,720,000       800,000      1,600,000
-41.1%
TIE:                                  6,810,000    3,960,000       3,600,000
Curriculum/Txtbks,Development                                      - 47.14%
Training -Fellowships
Research and Studies                    760,000       600,000       950,000
_+ 25.00%
Project Management and non salary       600,000       500,000       350,000
admin.costs                                  -                      - 41.67%
Matching Grants for Primary Schools       mm          400,000       245,000
Girls Secondary School Bursars.           *           300,000       256,000
- 14.7%
2.Category                            8,320,000    8,500,000      9,589,000
Part C: MobilLzation of Coauunity                                   + 15.3%
Resources:
Construction Materials and
Furniture for Primary Schools
Consultants and Training                680,000       500,000        550,000
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I  f  -  19.1%
Project Management and non salary       150,000'      500,000       800,000
costs                                                               + 433.3%
Unallocated                           4,970,000    1,100,000
TOTALS                                 29.0 nil.    23.7 ail.    23.7 ail.



Implementation Completion Report                                            Appendix B
UNITED ]REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Cab16ELMW  DAR ES SALAAM                                   ?.mTt OF suucA..ON AD tw T
Telpho 110150-V2/110146-9                                      P.O sm.9121
TeleX 41742                                                    D D S SALAAM
FM. 113271
In reply pleaue quota:
RslNo:ED/EP/S2 IDAGe0jVoL.VY5  DI m:: June 3'0, 190a
Mr. James W. Asamn,
County Director for Tanzania.
Africa Region,
The World Bank,
18 H Sureva   N.W.
Washing DC 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Adamns
TANZ4NL4: EDUCATIONPL4wNVING AND REHABUITA17ONPROJECT- CR 2137-TA
IMPLEMANTATION COMLETIONREPORT - Ai& Memir.
Pleas refer to your lener of May 15, 1998 together with the Aide Memire of the March 19
to April 16, 1998 Mission. It was my pleasuzo to meet with the mission at various stages of the
preparation of the ICR and discuss the findlinp and r   etins which I found usfl and
oonstrctv  
Among the insues raised In your letter, were, development of cector approach to educatUon.
fnancing of primazy education, iwvolving the PMO  (LO) in ongoing progammes and the
restrucming of NETF so as to render it sustinable. I am pleased to let you know that the Ministry of
Education and Culture has already started working on these scriously
We have gone though the Aiue Memoim itelf and are satiafded that it generally gives a true
picture of the ICR However, allow me to straighten up a few inan- lea/aVa. Those ae-
Aide Memoire p.2 pam 2:       The name of the chairman NETF Board of Trustees is
Mx. Suleinn Mv. Hog
Aide Memoire p.2. pam 2:      Mr. Haroun Sulciman was the Acting Principal Secretary
(MoE zanzibr)
Aide Memoire p.4. pam 13:     last sentence - "Education and Traiimng Poliy
Aide Memoim p.8 para 25:      ..-the Project Coordinator wals someimes carryW
out duties as Acdng Direotr of Planing up. However, aer
1994 he worked foi time on the projeat
The last document prseted to the miusion with 40 pages represent the Sovanmet verion
of the ICR in accordance with the forikt provided suymmy therein (p. 1-10) is a good Trpreantation
of the rest.
Bea  regards
Yours snceely,
A.R2V S. Rajab
PERBMANENT SECRETARY
Dr. B. Malangalil,
WB Misson
Dar es SaisAm
adam



Appendix B
IMPLEMENTrATION CO.MIPLETION REPORT
(Some Co ninents from the PCT (P.N10/LG)
1.    Page 2 para 9:     We fully agree with the statement that significant gains
vvere made in increasing the involvement of cummunities
in school rehabilitation and maintenance.
2.    Page 5 para 24:    T'he last sentence could be reworded to readln addition
tdhe PCT (PMO/LG) was directed to include 48 more
schools than planned.' As it stands, the sentence implies
tlhat the addition of 48 schools was done by the whims of
the PCT. The truth is that the PCT was directed by high
authorities to do so; and in several cases the Bank's 'no
objection' was obtained before taking on the additional
schools.
3.    Page 9 para 47:     T'he gist of this paragraph should take cognisance of the
faict that the PCT (PMO/LG) had only five officers and
the project was spread out in 103 districts. Physical
visits to the implementing Councils was absolutely
necessary. But the five officers from the PCT could not
cover all the Councils. So, it was agreed by the PMO
that officers from other departments of the PMO should
assist in making physical visits to the Councils to follow
up on various aspects of the project (e.g. collection of
financial returns;and follow up of school rehabilitation)
I'he project had to finance these trips.
4.    Last page of Appendix: Status and Issues/ Action to be taken:
(a)   We agree with this statement, that all 750 schools were rehabilited as
planned; but as rioted above, 48 additional schools were also
rehabilited.In May, 1998 all the phase 4 schools were revisited (earlier
visits were made in November, 1997) to determine the current status
of school rehabilitation. In most districts the schools have been
completed 1 00%N,. But in others, two more months are needed to
complete the work. Rehablitation work is still going on, an? the
PMO/LG continues to urge the Councils to complete the remaining
work.
S     ngu      '
PROJECT CO-ORDINATOR



Appendic B
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Cables:ELIMU DAR ES SALAAM
Telephone 11015012 & 110146/9                        MINISTRY OF EDUCATiON AND CULTURE
Telex 41742                                              P.O. Box 9121
Fax: 113271                                              DARES SALAAM
In reply please quote:
Ref. No:ED/EP/6TH IDA(PP/Vol.lI./136                       Date: June 11, 1998
Ms. Rest Laswai
Resident Mission
DAR ES SALAAM.
Dear Rest,
Please refer to our telephone conversation this morning.
(a)   ICR:  I do not have many comments except for the few that follow:
(i)    Project objectives para 4 last sentense "poor girls in Secondary
School"
Since in the case of TZ it is not usual for girls to pay school fees
themselves, let us change this bit to read "girls from poor households".
(ii)   Implementation experience and Results:
Para 11 last five words:
to delete and replace with "Education and Training Policy".
Para 12 - The annual statistical bulletin titled "Basic Education
Statistics (BEST)"
BEST has been in existence long before the project started. The
booklets produced during the project period are titled "Basic Education
Statistics in Tanzania (BEST) Data Analysis". Although as for the usual
BEST, the publication was improved a great deal and was produced
very much sooner than before.
Para 14 - on MANTEP:
Under the new Civil Service Reform and re-structuring of
Ministries, MANTEP is designated as an "Agency".
Para 33 - NETF to be self-financing.
I am not sure about this unless we mean "in operatiorial costs";
but as for the main objective of assisting secondary schools, it has to
receive fimds from somewhere else to be passed on to the schools.
(iii)  Summary of Assessments B: Project Sustainability -



Appendix B
Quite a number of the project sub-components will be sustained
especially after re-structuring. I would assess sutainability as likely.
(iv)   Status of Legal Covenants:
Article 4 Section 4. 01(b)
The financial Auidits for FY 96 from MOEC were completed and
submitted on February 25, 1997.
Schedule 4.66(vii) Preinvestment Study:
This was completed and resulted into HRDP Cr 2991-TA.
(b)   Purchase of vehicles
Herewith please find a legible photocopy of the LAPSO prices.
The unit price in Tsh. is 14,648,525 at the rate of Tsh.5.00 per one Japanese Yen.
Regards.
Yours sincerely,
D.Bagends
.tDIRECTOR



Appendix B
ROYAL NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
NORAD
Agency for development
cooperation
Ms. Young Kimaro
AF2PH, Room no J10-009                             cos ret.  93/01950 - /RRE
The World Bank
Washington D.C.                                     Yoref.
Date    27.06.94
Dear Sir,
Re: National Edtication Truist Fuaid(NETF). Operatinig Costs and Amendmeint of
Agreement.
Kindly refer to your letter of 24th JuLne 1994 requesting for NORAD's concurrence to
amend the development Grant Agreement between NOI'RAD and IDA to permit NORAD
yrant funds to be used to cover the operating costs of NETF, including salaries for its
staff.
As the project document, upon which the Board of Directors based their decision to grant
NOK 56 mill towards NETF, explicitly includes operating costs to be covered by the
grant, it follows that NORAD concurs to the amendment7
Your most urgent attention to the processing and drafting of the amendment would be
highly appreciated, as the effectiveniess of NETF seems severely affected by this
unfortunate oversiglht.
Yours sincereil
Idar Johaiel
Minister Co  sellor
CC:  The Principal Secretary, MIinistry of Finanice
The Principal Secretary, Ministry of Education
Mr. M. Konishi. Resident Representative. The Worli Bank, DSM
Postal Addrcsv   OfricC Address:     Telephones:   Teiegrms:            Telex:    T:elkax:,
P.O. Los 264t.   Plot 16005O        46443 39952     Royal Nowegian Embas%y   41221  4($S4
L)are SClan,     Cmr. Garden Ave./  46815 39953     Dares Salamn        NORAMB



Appendix B
COMMENTS ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AS PER WORLD BANK SUBMISSION OF JUNE 8TH 1998
ON NETF:
SPECIFIC AREAS:
Page 4, para 22 NETF was and is not functioning within MOEC. NETF is an
NGO.
Page ii, para 5 and
Page 6, para 32 of the Text.
1.   There were no difficulties in appointing non-government officials as
Board members of NETF. What was confusing was the changing advice
from the World Bank missions on who should be in the board and who
should not in order to make NETF truly an NGO.
2.   It is neither correct to say that NETF assumed the role of DETFs nor
that NETF failed to channel funds to DETFs. There were difficulties in
doing so. The introduction and implementation of the "New Financing
Mechanism" was directed towards achieving this and through this a
substantial amount of funds granted were channelled through DETFs
and other umbrella organisations.
3.   We are not sure whether the statement that "the project did not include
operational funds for NETF is the correct way of saying it and whether
that statement is in line with para 2 of the letter from NORAD to Ms.
Young Kimaro (then Task Manager) a copy of which is herein attached.
General:
1.   As pointed out during the wrap-up meeting of March 19 - April 16
mission we expressed and we are still of the opinion that the way NETF
is reported is not fair (Ref. Para 30 - 3l). The picture presented depicts
NETF to have been a total failure.
There are no indications in the reporting of NETF achievements in the
so-called changed objectives. It is not enough to say that 311 grants
were granted but what was achieved out of this. The report does not say
anything on training. NETF provided full information in its report on
this including statistics but this Report is quiet on it.



Appendix B
2.   As for the summary of assessment, placement of NETF in the
"Negligible" column in terms of performance is in our opinion unfair.
We believe we did better than that. Time will tell and the beneficiaries
shall provide the vindication.
ADVICE:
We suggest that in future an independent body rather than the World Bank be
appointed to prepare the report to avoid temptations of biased reporting when
the reporter is part and parcel of the project. being reported on.



Implemention Completion Report                   Appendix C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(The Government has prepared a more detailed report which is
available in the files).
TANZ ANIA
THE EDUCATION PLANNIN(G AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDrr NO 2137 TA.
MARCEI 1998
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
AND CULTURE
P.O. BOX 9121
DAR ES SALAAM



Appendix C
2.0 EVALUAT1[ON SUMMARY
2.1 Objectives
The project objectives were to:
(a) Strengthen the institutional capacity to plan and implement appropriate and
effective educational policies and programmes through: improving the training
of education managers at central and local offices; supporting improvements in
the information base available to education authorities; strengthening education
research and the use of the results to plan sector improvements and through
supporting studies necessary to assist Government efforts to update the existing
national education strategies
(b) Improve the quality of education at the primary and secondary levels
by:strengthening the Tanzania Institute of Education which is the source of all
teaching materials used in Tanzanian schools; improving the methodology of
teaching science and mathematics courses in secondary schools and providing
the necessary training, teaching materials and low cost equipment; developing
the capacity to prepare, distribute and utilize relevant textbooks; and by
upgrading the existing university college and secondary school libraries and
initiating a pilot primary school library extension project.
(c) Strengthen the mobilization and effective utilization of non-government
resources and support for education by: developing a comprehensive school
maintenance strategy, training district cadres in schooi building and
maintenance and rehabilitating primary schools in under served rural areas with
assistance from communities and by providing incentives to increase
conmmunity efforts in financing the establishment of secondary schools, by
establishing a National Education Trust Fund ( NETF ) to provide resources to
match community investments in these schools.
2.2 Implementation experience.
2.2.1 General
The Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project was the most complex of
the eight World Bank projects in the education sector. It had three loosely
related components. ten subcomponents, nine separate implementing units, and
two project implementing teams located in different ministries, one in the
Ministry of Education and Culture and another in the Prime Minister's Office,
Local Government Department.



Appendix C
The complexity of the project includes NORAD co-financing one
subcomponent and SIDA parallel financing another subcomponent of the
project.
The project was adversely affected by the World Bank reorganization, when
Tanzania shifted from AF6 to the AF2 department and by several changes in
Task Managers.
The project was slow to take off the ground. The Credit agreement was signed
in June 1990, but the first disbursement was made in November, 1991
By November, 1994 about three and a quarter years after the effective date, only
24% of the original Credit amount of US$ 38.3 million was disbursed. The
slow move was caused by the project complexity, management discontimuities
and by bureaucratic procedures of the World Bank and the Government.
The project management team started the project without reliable transport.
As such monitoring was hampered, consequently some errors were allowed to
multiply unchecked and beneficiaries were not properly educated about the
project.
2.2.2 Specific problems
MOEC
(a) A qualified accountant was not in place when the project started and
therefore a smooth project accounting was lacking. Payment procedures
followed the general system in the Ministry making it extremely difficult to
retrieve project documents for preparation of project audit reports and
disbursement claims.
(b) Policy changes and differences in perspectives between the World Bank,
other donors and the Government slackened the speed and smooth
implementation of some project subcomponents. In particular the Liberalization
of textbook production and distribution became a focal point of long debate
between the Government and the World Bank about the appropriateness of the
Tanzania Institute of Education ( TIE ) in the preparation of manuscripts and
textbooks. Given its reduced role, the need for large new facilities became
questionable and there were some disagreements about resources and facilities
which must be provided for TIE.
PMO (LG)
(a) In some areas the self help spirit which was a sine qua non for the success of
this project was not forthcoming as anticipated. This hampered the process of
the project in these areas



Appendix C
(b) Due to erratic availability of counterpart funds, suppliers of building
materials and furniture experienced delays in having their claims fully paid.
As a result of this, some suppliers defaulted and rebidding had to start all over
again.
(c) The dispersion of the project in 98 districts all over the country made project
supervision and monitoring difficuilt.
(d) Distribution of materials from districts to project schools was a big problem
because many districts lack reliable transport facilities.
(e) Storage facilities were poor at many district headquarters. Therefore
suppliers were forced to make deliveries in small quantities and this caused
delays in project implementation.
(f) In some instances, SMARTS were denied access to the village to supervise
and help the community level artisans
(g) There were instances of thefts of project materials in some districts as well
as diversion of project materials by some district authorities. These problems
were dealt with by relevant authorities.
(h) Tendering procedures changecl several times during the life span of the
project.
NETF
(a) NETF started without any recuffent operation budget, thereby freezing its
operations.
(b) Frequent changes in advice and guidance from the Bank supervisions had
disruptive effects in management and disbursement of funds.
(c) Erractic flow of funds from IMA due to bureaucratic procedures, stoppage
and freezing the release of funds by the World Bank, hampered the smooth
implementation of the project.
(d) There were delays in getting funds replenished in time because of
cumbersome procurement procedures and inability of some schools to prepare
proper expenditure documents as required by the World Bank.
(e) There were inadequacies in efFective involvement of stakeholders such as
school owners, managers, commumities and District Education Trust Funds in
the project activities due to centralized administration and lack of support of
NETF operations at grassroot level.
(f) Community complementarity to match NETF assistance was weak due to
project design problem
2.3 Results.
2.3.1 General
Despite the above constraints, the Education Planning and Rehabilitation
Project is actually one of the best implemented projects out of the eight
financed by the World Bank because it has achieved all its major objectives.



Appendix C
2.3.2 Specific Results
MOEC
Through its strong focus on the strengthening of institutional capacity to plan
manage and finance the delivery of educational services, the project has made
good achievements in the training of educational managers from community,
district, regional and national levels.
The impact evaluation indicates that there are positive improvements inr school
management, delegation of powers, community involvement and many schools
assisted by the project are improving their performances.
A core of qualified trainers at district, regional and national levels has been
established through the project. The Management Training for Educational
Personnel (MANTEP ) has been improved, strengthened and provided with
more facilities. These achievements are assets to the country and will enable
Tanzania continue training educational managers as need arises even after the
closing of the project.
Despite the failure to introduce improved teaching methodologies through the
introduction of Unified Science Curriculum, the subcomponent on quality
improvemen has been well implemented as justified below:
Availability of instructional materials particularly books and qualified teachers
are vital determinants of student improved performances. The project has
attained these requirements:
(a) Through the Book Management Unit (BMU ), the availability of primary
and secondary school textbooks has improved. At the primary school level the
pupil/book ratio has been reduced from 10:1 at the beginning of the project to
3:1 to-date, similarly at the secondary school level the ratio has been reduced
from 8:1 to the present ratio of 3:1.
(b) The project has contributed towards strengthening the liberalization process
of textbook supply. The capacities of private publishers have been strengthened
through the open tenders for publishing manuscripts developed by TIE. The
project has financially encouraged and supported private publishers to develop
manuscripts based on subject syllabuses .
(c) Through demand financing initiated by the project and which will continue
in the next Human Resource Development Project, it is anticipated that the free
market supply of school books will be boosted. Already we are experiencing a
substantial supply of school books from private shops.



Appendic C
(d) The Teachers Resources Centres established through the project will
continue to be the main means for improving the quality of serving teachers in
the country
PMO (LG)
(a) The project has,by large, been implemented according to plan. A total of
798 schools compared to750 envisaged for rehabilitation have been
rehabilitated. Furniture an extremnely important item in the whole project was
provided as planned, and pupils are enjoying their use.
(b) The project has helped boost up, school attendance, and parents across the
country have confirmed that their children enjoy going to school because of the
improved school environment.
(c) The project has inculcated among parents, the culture of school
maintenance. The free labour provided by the community and in some
localities the cash contribution made to the project, testify this culture.
(d) The training of district school maintenance teams and community
rehabilitation teams has been extremely useful. A total of 298 artisans,
compared to 300 envisaged in the SAR were trained.
(e) The token amount of Shs 200,000 per school and the contracts awards,
addressed to some extent the question of poverty alleviation among villagers.
NETF
As for the major objectives and the attendant targets and expectations much can
be said to have been achieved as justified below.
(a) A total of Shs 3.6 billion was disbursed to 311 secondary schools for
completion of civil works, purchase of furniture, equipment and books
compared to 60 schools which were envisaged in the SAR. This support has
provided expansion of access to secondary education.
(b) Through the construction of girls hostels, the project helped to address the
problem of girls participation in secondary schools. Statistical evidence shows
that girls participation rate has increased in project schools much better than
that of boys.
(c) NETF granted about Shs 157 million for training 245 Heads of schools, 34
managers and Education Secretaries in management and administration. The
impact evaluation indicates that in general school management has imnproved
and as a result school performance is improving.



Appendix C
(d) A -rise in the number of non-government schools from 248 at the start of the
project (1992) to 359 by 1997 is partly due to support and encouragement
rendered by NETF.
2.4 Reasons for the success.
Observations through project documents indicate that the following appear to
be the main factors which have contributed greatly to the success of the project:
(a) The World Bank was fully involved in the implementation process of the
project. It identified major bottlenecks , provided recommendations on ways of
reducing the bottlenecks and also provided the project management with speedy
unambiguous and consistent responses to requests.
(b) The Government and the project management team cooperated in getting
resolutions implemented speedily and in scheduled time.
(c) The project implementation units had the abilities, experience and capacity
of handling this complex project.
2.5 Project sustainbility.
The greatest challenge to the project sustainability is to maintain and sustain, at
least, at a modest level, the reform process which has been initiated through this
project in critical areas of improving: the quality of education; access and
equity; education management; cost and financing and the mobilization of non-
governmental resources to support education. Sustainability of this project
really depends on: the policy environment; commitment of the Government; the
effective utilization of resources that have been made available through the
project.
2.5.1 Policy environment.
Thie present liberalization policy and other policy measures are not only
supporting the sustainability of the project but are also further developing
the reform initiatives of the project. Evidences of this trend are:
(a) There is now a growing competition in the provision of primary, secondary,
college and university education in the country, through non-governmental
initiatives. Parents can now choose a good school to send their children. This
choice is reinforcing competition in the provision of quality education.
(b) The mobilization of non-governmental resources for education has positive
effects of improving access to education and is reducing dependency on the
Government to provide education. Data shows that about two thirds of
secondary schools in the country are private.
(c) The Government will remain with fewer schools than could have been the
case without liberalization. This situation should enable the Governnent to
systematically improve the quality of public schools.
(d) The cost sharing policy: The acceptance of the Government to retain school
fees in respective schools, is enabling schools to procure necessary educational
inputs of their choice to improve school quality and effectiveness.



Appendix C
2.5.2 The Role of the Government.
(a) The basic longterm objective of the Government is to accelerate economic
and social growth with a view to reducing proverty. To achieve this objective,
the Government is committed tCI provide the right macroeconomic environment
for private sector development including education and to focus public
expenditure on a few economic and social infrastructure.
(b) In the social sector, the Government is committed to human capital
development and therefore, it is intending to increase expenditure on education
and health. The increased expenditure on education will certainly improve
education performance.
(c) The introduction of Community Education Fund (CEF) and the resolution of
district authorities to budget funcls for school rehabilitation shows promising
signs for the sustainability of the primary school rehabilitation component of
the project
(d) The Government in its secondary school master plan programme, intends to
use NETF in secondary school improvement and expansion
(e) The Government has plans to restructure NETF and to decentralize its
operations in order to involve more stakeholders.
2.5.3 The Project .
The project itself contains several feature which would maintain
the sustainability of the project . A few examples are sited to illustrate the case:
(a) Human resource base: The project has trained adequate numbers- of primary
school headteachers, SMARTS, heads of secondary schools, District Education
Officers, Statistics and Logistic Officers, Regional Education Officers and
School Inspectors in classroom management, administration and data
collection. This human resource, if effectively deployed will have a multiplier
effect in improving the provision of education.
(b) The design and pre-testing of the Human Resource Development pilot
project financed by the project has resulted into a fulll project starting from
January, 1998. During the pre-test phase 136 primary schools participated in
the Community Education Fund i(CEF) component and 756 girls benefited
from the Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES). A lot of capacity
building was implemented through training of communities at district, ward.
school and village levels.
(c) The open channel of textbook. production and distribution: Production and
distribution of school textbook has been a problem for a long time. This project
under the textbook policy which liberalized production and distribution of
school books has assisted the development of open market channels through
support to private publishers and printers. With this system in place the
availability of school books is improving.



Appendix C
(d) Physical facilities: The project has left behind school buildings. modem
equipment. training and administrative facilities.
These resources if deployed in accordance with the objectives of the project
would sustain the project beyond a modest level.
2.6 Bank Performance
(a) Generally the supervision of the project was satisfactory. The number of
visits were adequate and timing of the supervision missions was in all case
appropriate. Supervision mission reports were adequate in that implementation
problems were identified, assessed and some remedies were suggested
(b) Work relations between the World Bank, the. borrower, cofinanciers and
implementing agency were extremely cordial
(c) During the life span of the project 1990 to 1997 Task Managers have
changed not less than six times, thus making consistence in decision making
difficult. Some of the advice issued on the project by different Task Managers
at times tended to conflict making it difficult for implementing units to decide
which option to follow. Some early advice or directives being later negated by
the same Task Manager.
(d) The Bank Supervision Missions seem to have inadequately responded to the
experiences of those involved in the project implementation at a field level.
2.7 Lessons learned.
(a) Complexity of the project As a result of economic crisis that hit the country
since the late 70s, the social sector has acute challenges and problems. In
education there are many issues that need urgent intervention which however
cannot be resolve in the shortrun. The project was complex because it tended to
address all issues in a single project
(b) Packaging of inputs: Primary school rehabilitation, primary school
textbook and headteacher training were supported by the project. The delivery
of these inter-related inputs were not packaged so as to benefit the same school.
As a result rehabilitated primary schools have improved physical facilities but
lack other critical inputs for teaching and learning.
(c) Linkages with other agencies: The project supported donor coordination.
Efforts to coordinate donors to have a common focus in support of education
are showing very positive results. As detailed in the section on sustainability, it
is learned that with greater coordination of donor support project achievements
are made sustainable .
(d) A supply driven project: The project had insufficient mechanism for
obtaining, using and responding to information about local capacity and
demand for educational inputs. For example. librarians and teachers were not
consulted on the books most relevant for students.



Jmvilmention Completion Report                                            Appendix D
9  ROYAL NORWEGIAN EMBASSY
DAR ES SALAAM                         Our Date              Our Relirence
19.6.98              97/00325 -
E_quJa to                                      Your Date             Your Reference
Muit HI vedld                                  09.06.98
The World Bank
Africa regon                                                             3 01998
1818 H StreetN.W.
Washington DC 20433
U.S.A.
Attn Mr. James W. Adams, Country Director
Dear Mr. Adams,
RE: TANZANA EPRP CRI 2137-TA  IMPLEMENTA7ION
COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) INCLUDING THE NATIONAL
EDUCATION TRUST' FU
Kindly refer to the ICR report dated 8 June 1998. Reference is also made to the
Letter of Agreement between I1BRD/IDA and Norway dated 12.11.91
(4iAdministration Agreement), the Agreement between Norway and Tanzania
- -.- ~aT2. 1 l.9l ali the DCevdkipmneu CrcdiitAgreenent between IDA and
Tazana regarding the financial assistance to The National Education Trust Fund
Poject (NETF). The Norwegian Embassy has read the report with great inest
and examined the projct= implementation assessment with particular attention to
the review of NETF.
According to the report, the implementation of the Education Planning and
Rehabilitation Project (EPRP) was on the whole satisfactory. However, the
success of the various components has been variable. This observation applies
also to NBTF and the ICR points out several constraints relating to the design,
operaions and financkil management of the project
The report concludes that the original objectives of NETF was not met due to a
chnge of objetives anLd lack of clarity on how NETF should operate, particularly
regarding the financial system for managing the funds awarded to the
communities.
The ICR maintains thaL the World Bank has not provided adequate support to the
Borrower duriag the decentralizaion of procurement. In our opinion the WB also
filed to provide sufficient resources to administer and monitor the management
and implementation of the project on behalf of Norway (ref. Article II, clause 3 in
the Agrement between Norway and Tanzana).
P _: Adems     Ofk*AddnM:     Telephone:    Telbho       TulWC       E6-mllAddPu:
P. 0. Du2604  PbtioMwo        *256s 511335    *26S i1 I166s4    41221 nornmb    umbaamdewrnordmemn
ovaSa_m       CM. Gwden AvcJ
T_Wa           h,be Strt



Appendix D
2
It bas been noted that NETF spent an esimated 1 8% of the grants on overheads
and aministaton and that this is beyond the appraisal estimates. The ICR argues
that te high cost of adminlistering the project was partly due to NETP's
incomplete undersg of the financing and procurement requirements. On the
other hand, it could be argued that the frequent change of Task Managers and
filing to give sufficient resources to the field mission to closely monitor the
project implementation, contributed to this. Not using the normal government
institutional arrangements might also have effected the cost of project
administration.
The ICR states that the original objectives of this component were not met,
namely "To improve the quality of non-govremmental secondary schools through
physical and non-physical measures and to increase the number of students,
especially girls, that fUlfil secondary education".
The beneficiaries of the physical upgrading and expansion are the 311 secondary
schools which have received grants through NETF. The impact of these measures
on the quality of education delivered or number of students educated, has not been
thoroughly examined. This seems partly due to lack of clear indicators to measure
qualitative outputs. During the whole life of this project improving the quality of
education at the secondary school level has been a topic for discussion and a
major concem-for NORAD. Nevertheless, .non-pbysical measures have not -been
given pnority. A more thorough assessment regarding these issues ought to have
been included in the completion report.
The completion report is lacking reference to gender, social and geographic
indicators. Data on the number of school managers and teachers having been
trained, must be available and the impact of the management training ought to be
examined. The ICR only confirns that the effectiveness and quality of the training
provided by MANTEP has been limited.
The ICR maintains that failing to adequately discuss with NORAD about
the objectives and design of the project including the role of the WB in project
supervision, led to the implementation problems. We will add that the lack of a
common understanding of roles and design by allparties involved, particularly at
NETF and the community level, contributed. to this.
We agree that the issue of uncompleted tasks at a number of schools has to be
addressed in the context of the New Master Plan for Secondary Education and we
expect that tie Government in cooperation with NETF, the districts and the
communities, will suggest actions to be taken in order to complete the outstanding
work. NORAD has allocated funds to the MOEC in support of the development of
a Secondary Education Master Plan.



Appendix D
3
The Embassy adhere to the ten issues mentioned in the ICR under Lessons
Learned (page 9, item 49), but we would like to underscore the following as
particularly relevant for the NETE project:
- The imporace of isttutional capacity building at all lvels including the
ministries involved and thus avoid esablishing special project units outside the
line fimctions of the ministries.
- The need to examine the quality of training provided. Training, unless it is good
and relevant and being followed tip by other insttutional and management efforts,
has no or little impact on performance.
The Embassy has appreciated working with all parties involved in the
implementaton and monitonng of the NETF project and we hope that the lessons
leamed will have a positive impact on any future cooperation in support of
education sector development programme.
The Embassy takes this opportunity reminding that all the parties should be
furnished with an external auditecL report NORAD's completion document will be
finalized upon recving the audit report approved by the World Bank.
Yours sincerely,
Marit H. Vedeld
First Secretary of Embassy
c.c. Dr. E. Malangalila. The World Bank Resident Mission, DSM
c.c. NORAD/NAM



MAP SECTION



j UGAN DA                                                                                    v                                                                                      >'- X '1k tt l - -_ s 21 ; t% *^ IBRD 21702
jUGANDA    11-        - - -3 - - -36 
KARAGME                                        TARIML                                sN  9                                                          UGANDA I
R W A N D A \ !+E / ''< @Y A . z / K E N Y A 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EN   
- /      2                  RA~~~~~~~ULEBA  UKEREWE    ATA                                                                                                               EV
(            < 9                        X             ^. tX  :;si/  M                                <                                                     !NYA
R WA N D A                 E    *         EMA                             R ,
t   Aq4  \   t   X I  )   | IGhINGAv  >< A Nv   4                      t<(9 1t \   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA    AI 
~~ZA    MAG             1
BARIADt AgX   w    X)  * >t  \  >  4   s1erz)      <TANANIA
\ X <\) X1J7AME' ) 5  g>NDOA 1- t3t Wtr3I                                                                                  ED U C A  TIO N
S \ > < A IAB017A J; \ \ 5 T t N > / F ~~REHABIUTATION PROJECT
HA                                                                                                                             oc,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .o,T Clp
\X/   M9ANDAg   ~R U   K7W  A                              IIIATII   N                                          INAIITTA          RUE 7!AM
ZAR                     )ITNAAq                                                                  t          MUl IR0N TIt S W g  OC9 ISAIlAWS   
BU~~~~~~~~ )ig RUNDgr I 7
u~~~~~~~~~~~ Nfl E0
MASWA ~  ~       ~      ~       TUNI'        TW R  
liA " ;                                                               A  l AR4C   J H A                                                                             41KlL/ 
(  2   /           s                                                 T MBIN;'  _  . IUNURU    __MASASI   - -          ee.fl.,.
IkAMBA  wl. ~ ~        ~         ~        ~       ~        ~       ~         AAIA -
\~~~~~~~~~r                                             'N  /- -                          MQZ AM B I QUE                               tr 
A                          Cl
-SULU                                             K I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I~~~JL  8



