Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2137 TA
(Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
Dated June 16, 1992
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2137 TA
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
a Grant provided by THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY (Norway).
WHEREAS, the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and of Norway in the financing of a 
Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement dated June 18, 1990, between the Recipient and the 
Association (IDA Credit Agreement).
WHEREAS in consideration of the above-mentioned request, Norway shall open a 
trust account and deposit therein an amount not exceeding fifty-six million Norwegian 
Kroner (NOK 56,000,000) (the Norwegian Grant) and has, pursuant to a Letter of 
Agreement dated October 31, 1991, between Norway and the Association, (the 
Administration Agreement), appointed the Association as Administrator of the said 
Trust Account for the purpose of providing assistance to the Recipient;
WHEREAS, the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to 
the Recipient under this Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by Norway to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS, the Association, as Administrator as hereinbefore mentioned has agreed 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to extend the Norwegian Grant to the 
Recipient upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth 
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Norwegian 
Grant pursuant to the provisions of the Administration Agreement;
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Norwegian Grant hereunder;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement means the Account opened by the Association in its books in the name of 
the Recipient to which the amount of the Norwegian Grant is credited;
(e)
the term "Project" means the Project for which the Norwegian Grant is 
extended, as described in Part C.3 of Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement dated 
June 18, 1990, and as the description thereof may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Association and the Recipient.
(f)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a) and 12.05 of the General Conditions are deleted; and
(g)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall include also the Association acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement the following terms "Norwegian 
Kroner" and "NOK" mean the currency of Norway.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of fifty-six 
million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 56,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the Schedule to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(of if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost 
of works and goods required for Part C.3 of the Project.
(b)
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the respective 
currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Norwegian Grant have been paid or are pay able or, at the option of the Association, 
in Norwegian Kroner.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works and goods required for Part C.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Norwegian Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the IDA Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Program
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, Articles III 
Page  3
and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in such Articles III and IV to the "Association" shall be deemed 
to be references to the Association, as Administrator on behalf of the Government of 
the Kingdom of Norway under this Agreement, all references to the "Development Credit 
Agreement" shall be deemed to be references to this Development Grant Agreement and 
all references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the Norwegian 
Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the IDA Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.04. The representative designated in Section 6.01 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.05. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.06. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the IDA Credit 
Agreement.
ARTILCE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to Norway. 
The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the 
Recipient to that effect, Norway shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such 
notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this 
Agreement as if Norway had been an original party to this Agreement, without any 
further action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Charles Nyirabu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
  as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Page  4
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Norwegian Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Norwegian Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Norwegian Grant 
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category:
   Amount of the
  Norwegian Grant
     Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in NOK
Expenditures
Category             Equivalent    
to be Financed
(1)
Building
11,200,000
100%
materials
(2)
Furniture and
11,200,000
100%
equipment
(3)
Pedagogical 19,600,000
100%
materials and
laboratory
equipment and
chemicals
(4)
Training
14,000,000
100%
Total
56,000,000
