RETURN TO -
REPORTS  DESFI4ILL   LU!'!RESTRICTED
REPORTS   DESJR'"L                COPY                 Report No. TO-656a
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TANZANIA
October 8, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1         =       Tanzania Shillings 7. 14
T. Sh 1        =      100 cents     =   US$ 0. 14
l I                   T. ShZ2       =   US$ 2. 80
J, 1 million    =     US$ 2. 8 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Imperial System
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
ADS            -      Agricultural Development Service
NACO           -      National Agricultural Company
Ltd.
NDC            -      National Development
Corporation
TPL            -      Tanganyika Packers, Ltd.



TANZANIA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
I.       INTRODUCTION  .                            ............................................  1
II.      BACKGROUND  .....          ........................................                1
A.    General                  ........................................       1
B.    The Beef Cattle Sector  .....              ....................         2
C.    Animal Health  ..          . ...............................            2
D.    Agricultural Services  ........ . ......... . ....                      3
E.    Government Policies on Livestock Development  ...
III.   THE PROJECT  ......................... , ...... .......  ...                         5
A.    Project Description  ............................                        5
B.    Project Area .................... ...........................           6
C.    Detailed Ranch Features  ........................                       6
D.    Land Tenure  ......             ..............................           7
E.    Cost Estimates  ... .          ............................              8
F.    Proposed Financing ......              .......................          9
G.    Lending Operations  ......            .......................           9
H.    Procurement  .......................... .......... .                   10
I.    Disbursements  and Auditing  ..              .................. .      10
J.    Financial Implications  .....              ....................        11
IV.      ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ......               ......................         11
A.   Project Organization  ...........................                       11
B.    Capitalization of the National Agricultural
Company  ........................................ 0........      12
C.    Technical Services and Training  ................                      12
V.       MARKET PROSPECTS AND RANCH INCOMES  .....................                        13
A.    Marketing  ........  ............                         ....         13
B.    Production and Income on Project Ranches  .......                      14
C.    Financial Incentives  ..             ..........................        14
VI.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .............................                        15
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ...                          ...15
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Tanzania
in November and December 1967, composed of Messrs. J. Gerring, F. Knobel,
A. Schumacher and T. Husain. Messrs. Gerring and Schumacher are primarily
responsible for this report.



ANNEXES
1.   National Development Corporation
Table 1 - NDC Balance Sheets, 1964-1967
Table 2 - NDC - Profit and Loss Accounts, 1965-1967
Table 3 - NDC - Income, Investments and Loans, 1967
Table 4 - NDC - Agricultural Department - Consolidated Balance
Sheets, 1965-1967
Table 5 - NDC - Agricultural Department - Consolidated Profit and Loss
Statements, 1965-1967
Table 6 - NACO - Proposed Capitalization
Chart 1 - NDC - Organization Chart
Chart 2 - NACO - Organization Chart
2.   Herd Development, Ranch Investment Costs and Operating Expenses
Table 1 - Kitengule - Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Table 2 - Mkata - Fattening Ranch
Table 3 - West Kilimanjaro - Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Table 4 - Breeding/Fattening Ranch
3.   Table 1 - ProJect Investments)
Table 2 - Phasing of Proposed Financing and IDA Disbursements
Table 3 - Projected Phasing of Ranch Investment Costs
Table 4 - NDC - Projected Cash Flow
Table 5 - NACO - Projected Cash Flow
W.   Technical Services Budget
5.   Training Program - Phasing and Cost
6.   Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities of the Chief Development
Officer (Ranching)
7.   Table 1 - Economic and Financial Rates of Return
Table 2 - Annual Increased Turnoff of Beef and Breeding Stock at Full
Development from Project Ranches
MAP



TANZANIA
bEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Governlment of Tanzania has requested an IDA Credit to help
finance the first part of its national livestock development program, compris-
ing mainly the development of five state beef ranches. The principal objec-
tives of the Project would be to increase the output of beef and to expand
the production of improved breeding stock.
ii.       Finance would be provided for such investments as on-ranch roads,
firebreaks, fencing, water supplies, stock handling and animal health con-
trol facilities, ranch buildings and an initial procurement of feeder steers
for fattening. Funds would also be allocated for technical services and a
training program for ranch management.
iii.      One fattening ranch and four breeding/fattening ranches, all owned
by the National Agricultural Company Ltd (NACO), would be included in the
Project. The funds from the IDA Credit for the development of these ranches
would be on-lent by Government to the National Development Corporation (NDC)
at 4 percent per anmum for a term of 50 years including a grace period of
10 years. NDC would on-lend these funds to NACO at 7 percent per annum for
a term of 12 years including a grace period of 5 years.
iv.       The Project is estimated to cost about US$2.0 million of which
US$1.8 million would be for ranch development and the balance of US$0.2
million for technical services and training. The IDA Credit would cover about
65 percent of the total project cost. The other 35 percent would be provided
by NDC and NACO. Thle foreign exchange component is about one-half of the
Credit.
v.        A Chief Development Officer (Ranching) of NACO would be responsible
for preparing the ranch development plans and supervising their execution.
He would also advise on and assist the on-going practical training program
for assistant ranch managers and field assistants.
vi.       The Project is technically sound and economically justified.
Expected benefits to NACO, Project ranches and to the economy are adequate.
The proposed administrative arrangements are satisfactory. The Project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$1.3 million. The borrower would be the
Government of Tanzania.



TANZANIA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Gove-rnment of Tanzania hats requested an IDA Credit to help
finance the first stage of its livestock development program. The Project
seeks to expand the beef ranching operations of the National Agricultural
Company Ltd (NACO) a subsidiary company of the National Development Corpo-
ration (NDC). The Project was prepared during 1966 and 1967 with the assis-
tance of the Agricultural Development Service (ADS), an affiliate of the
IBRD's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa located in Nairobi. This appraisal
report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Tanzania in
November/December 1967 composed of Messrs. J. Gerring, F. Knobel, A. Schumacher
and T. Husain. Messrs. Gerring and Schumacher are primarily responsible for
preparing this report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The mainland of Tanzania, with a land area of 341,150 square miles,
has a variety of climatic and ecological conditions. Broadly, the country
consists of four agricultural regions: the Eastern coastal belt (sisal and
cashew nuts) extendinpa fArUu Dar es Salaam to the Mozambique border, the
Kilimanjaro area (coffee), a fertile belt around Lake Victoria (cotton, tea
and coffee), the Southern Highlands (tobacco, tea and pyrethrum), and the
range areas of Sukuaialand and the central plateau (cattle).  The agricultural
sector provides a livelihood for 90 percent of Tanzania's 12 million popu-
lation, most of whom live at subsistence levels.
2.02      Tanzania's economy depends mainly on agriculture, which contri-
buted about 54 percent of the total GDP in 1966, with livestock accounting
for about 8 percent. Exports of meat, cattle and livestock products account
for about 3-4 percent of total exports. In the face of uncertain price pros-
pects for the three principal exports, cotton, sisal and coffee, diversifi-
cation of farm production towards beef is most important, Tanzania's large
beef herd, ten million head, its extensive rangelands and favorable climate
offer good prospects for increasing the production of beef.
2.03      NDC was set up in 1965 to take the initiative in developing certain
sectors of the economy on commercial lines. It is largely self-financing,
investing its annual surpluses in new or existing subsidiary companies. NDC
is in a strong financial position with capital and reserves of Sh 174 million
(US$24.4 million) and projected annual net earnings from i-ts investments of
Sh 24 million (US$3.11 million). NDC has incorporated its existing livestock
investments into a subsidiary company (NACO). This new company plans to
further expand its beef, dairy and pig operations.



B. The Beef Cattle Sector
2.04      The domestic livestock population of Tanzania comprises about 10
million cattle, 3 million sheep and 4.5 million goats. These animals graze
on about 155,500 square miles. Approximately two-thirds of this area receives
less than 30 in of rain annually. Most of the cattle population is in the
traditional sector. Though the cattle are individually owned, they are grazed
on communal lands. In consequence, each owner is intent on increasing his
herd but does little to ensure an adequate supply of pasture to feed it.
Since the number rather than the quality of cattle is the symbol of wealth,
the culling of unproductive stock is seldom practised. Historically, the
maintenance of large numbers of cattle is regarded as sound insurance against
losses. Under such conditions, serious overgrazing frequently results in a
marked deterioration of the pastoral areas.
2.05      The off-take of cattle from the traditional sector is estimated at
11 to 13 percent per annum. This estimate, however, is based on hide counts
which include both fallen animals and those killed for subsistence needs.
Recorded sales through the local markets totalled 285,000 in 1966 or less than
3 percent of the national herd. Potentially, there is considerable scope for
increasing the present off-take to a more desirable 18 percent and even more
for raising the average weight of slaughter stock, which currently is only
about 250 lbs per head on a cold dressed weight basis. The establishment of
fattening ranches for the purpose of increasing the weight of immature stock
represents the best possibility for increasing beef production quickly in
Tanzania.
2.o6      Consumption of beef is expected to increase about 4 percent per
annum during the next five years. Currently, per capita consumption of
beef may be approaching 20 lb. This is higher than the estimated seven
pounds per capita consumption in Nigeria, but similar to estimated per
capita consumption in Kenya and Uganda. Urban and institutional (hospitals,
schools, military, etc.) demand is rising at 7-8 percent per annum, much of
it for improved grades of beef.
C. Animal Health
2.07      In recent years the Government has successfully controlled rinder-
pest and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia. The last case of rinderpest
occurred in 1965 in Masailand (north Tanzania). Each year approximately one
million cattle are vaccinated against this disease to form a barrier zone of
resistant animals should the disease be reintroduced across the country's
northern boundary. However, it is over 20 years since rinderpest occurred
in the southern half of Tanzania.
2.08      Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia last occurred some four years
ago in a small area of north Masailand where some 330,000 cattle are vac-
cinated annually. Blood testing to detect infected animals and strict
control of stock movements are additional precautions taken against further
outbreaks.



2.09      Foot-and-Mouth Disease is endemic in the main areas of the tra-
ditional livestock sector. Government vaccinates all cattle before trans-
ferring them to new stock areas such as the West Lake Region. Any affected
herds are placed under strict quarantine. Government has stated that it will
continue to apply effective measures of control.
2.10      Tsetse fly, the vector responsible for trypanosomiasis of cattle,
infests more than 60 percent of the area of Tanzania. Since this disease
virtually excludes the raising of cattle, it is the major factor influencing
the distribution of cattle in Tanzania. Economic production, however, is
possible where effective control measures are applied. Such measures are
being directed against the fly as well as against the organism it transmits
in a number of areas of Tanzania.  The methods used include clearance of
bush which harbors the fly; application of residual insecticides to the
foliage of the bush; and use of a variety of drugs to prevent or cure the
disease. In most cases a combination of two or more of these methods is used.
2.11      Tick-borne diseases, particularly East Coast Fever, are responsible
for serious losses in the traditional livestock sector where dipping is not
practised. Routine dipping of all cattle effectively prevents these losses.
Dips are being established in a number of districts to enable compulsory
dipping schemes to be implemented. Routine dipping is practiced on all NACO
ranches.
D. Agricultural Services
2.12      The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives is responsible for
all disease control measures and for much of the existing effort to develop
the livestock industry. Of its eleven divisions, the activities of five
pertain to livestock: Veterinary, Agriculture, Training, Planning and
Marketing.
2.13      The Veterinary Division is mainly responsible for disease control,
livestock research centers, tsetse control and eradication, stock routes,
quarantine stations, meat inspection and breeding stations. The Agriculture
Division, inter alia, is responsible for soil surveys, livestock marketing,
pasture research and livestock statistics. The professional staff of the
Veterinary and Agricultural Divisions comprises 26 expatriates and 18 Tan-
zanians and 59 expatriates and 46 Tanzanians respectively.
2.14      Education and training facilities have been expanded recently:
Tanzanians are obtaining degrees in agriculture at Kampala, Uganda, and in
veterinary science at Kabete, Kenya (University of East Africa). The Vete-
rinary Training Institute at Entebbe, Uganda, conducts a two-year course for
the training of veterinary assistants with outstanding students permitted to
stay for a third year for a diploma in animal husbandry. In addition, some
800 Tanzanians are studying for certificates and diplomas in agriculture and
veterinary science at seven training institutes in Tanzania. Of these stu-
dents, about 50 field officers and assistant field officers are being gra-
duated each year in animal husbandry with diplomas from Morogoro Agricultural
College and with certificates from the Ministry of Agriculture's Institute at



- 4 -
Ukiriguru. However, it is evident that the agricultural sector will continue
to require the services of expatriate professional and technical staff for
some years to come. Despite efforts to staff the Government services with
Tanzanians, there are more vacancies than can be filled by qualified Tanza-
nians, especially in the fields of education, research, planning and the
management of development projects.
E. Government Policies on Livestock Development
2.15      Government is beginning to recognize the important role of live-
stock development in the diversification of its agricultural production. Of
the planned development expenditure of Sh 371 million (US$ 52 million) in
1967/68, the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives was allocated nearly
Sh 50 million (US$ 7 million) or 12 percent of which the livestock sector
accounted for about Sh 7 million (US$ 1 million). The bulk of this invest-
ment is for clearing further areas from tsetse fly infestation, controlling
tick-borne diseases, improving stock routes and quarantine stations and con-
structing additional livestock improvement and breeding centers. Government's
plans to extend its existing 1,400 miles of stock routes by another 1,600
miles are contingent upon the provision of sufficient finance.
2.16      To promote livestock and crop development in the country's dry
lands, Government passed a Range Development and Management Act in 1964. The
Act empowers the Minister of Agriculture to set aside particular areas of the
country as range development areas and to appoint a commission to administer
them. In addition, the Act sets out general provisions for controlling stock
numbers, grazing and cultivation rights and for facilitating range develop-
ment by providing rights of occupancy to ranging associations formed by people
who hold customary rights in the areas concerned. The Government is also pro-
posing to set up a National Livestock Commission which, as a statutory body,
would advise it on all matters affecting the livestock industry, particularly
with respect to the organization and regulation of meat production and market-
ing. These two pieces of legislation would provide the framework for the
development of livestock production and marketing in large areas of the
country. Following up this legislation, the Government has requested the
assistance from UNDP of US$1.4 million for a major study which would investi-
gate the potentials and means of increasing beef production from the tradi-
tional sector.
2.17      Beef prices are free from central Government control for domesti-
cally consumed beef. Tanganyika Packers Ltd (TPL), owned 51 percent by NDC,
is a major buyer for the export market. For cattle meeting TPL's minimum
weight criteria of 250 lb cold dressed weight (cdw), it pays a price of
Sh 1.10 (US$0.15) per lb cdw. Cattle are purchased for domestic consumption
at prices ranging from Sh o.60 (Us$0.08) to Sh 1.40 (US$0.20) per lb cdw -
slaughter weight and quality being the principal determinants of the differ-
ential. There are no quotas on the export of meat. Government levies a tax
of three percent on the export of processed meat. Municipal governments
charge market and other fees ranging in total from Sh 2 to Sh 10 (US$0.28 to
US$1.40) per head marketed. Imports of virtually all agricultural inputs are
free from duty.



-5-
III. THE PROJECT
A. ProJect Description
3.01      The Project would be part of the first stage of a long-term beef
cattle production program. In this first phase finance vould be provided
for the development of five large-scale ranches owned by NACO. This vould
need to be followed by a broader based second phase project with two closely
related objectives. The first objective would be to increase the sales of
cattle suitable for fattening from the large traditional sector by the wider
use of improved disease control measures and by the provision of better mar-
keting facilities; the second, to raise the slaughter weight of these cattle
by the introduction of improved bulls and the establishment of strategically
located fattening ranches. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
Government would undertake a survey of the livestock sector which would lead
to a second phase integrated project.
3.02      For the investment program as proposed, provision would be made for
financing on-ranch roads and firebreaks, fencing, water supply, stockhandling
and animal health control facilities, farm machinery, ranch buildings, pur-
chase of breeding stock and an initial procurement of feeder steers for fat-
tening. Finance for the cost of technical services and training would be
included.
3.03      In the Credit request submitted by Government, the investment pro-
gram included the development of a very large (254,000 acre) ranch complex
located at Mkata as a breeding/fattening operation. However, this ranch
at Mkata is subject to extensive flooding in the wet season, which makes as
much as two-thirds of the area ungrazeable for up to four months of the year.
In addition parts of it are infested with tsetse fly. While the flood areas
offer an additional grazing margin for exceptionally dry years, in view of
the uncertainties involved, only about 80,000 acres of Mkata are included for
initial development in the present Project. The Project also comprises
ranches at Kitengule, West Kilimanjaro and two further units to be selected
of approximately 80,000 acres each. Altogether, some 12 areas are at present
under consideration as possible new sites for ranch development. Further
portions of Mkata may be considered for fattening providing a study is made
with a view to determine the extent to which existing problems could be over-
come, as well as the economic feasibility of such development compared with
other possible sites. A field review of the feasibility of the two sites
selected for inclusion in the Project would be made prior to the IDA agree-
ment to the site and for disbursement of IDA funds for their development.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that detailed ranch development
plans for these latter two units would be submitted to IDA within the first
eighteen months from the effective date of the proposed Credit. A field re-
view of their feasibility would be made by IDA in the course of project
supervision.



- 6 -
B. Project Area
3.04      The three existing project ranches are widely separated (See Map).
Kitengule Ranch is in the West Lake region in the northwest part of Tanzania.
West Kilimanjaro Ranch is located in the northeast region in the valley be-
tween Mt. Kilimanjaro and Mt. Meru.  Mkata Ranch is located on the railroad
line about 200 miles due west of Dar es Salaam. For the sites of the two
additional breeding/fattening ranches included in the project and yet to be
located, feasibility studies are being carried out at Pangani near Tanga,
Missenye in the West Lake region and Kitulo near Mbeya in the southern region
(See Map).
C. Detailed Ranch Features
3.05      The Kitengule Ranch, together with its extension, covers a total
area of approximately 100,000 acres. Currently carrying about 9,000 animal
units comprising both local Zebu and improved Boran stock, this number would
be increased to around 16,000 at full development as a mixed breeding/fat-
tening operation. The ranch lies at an altitude of 4,000 feet and is gently
undulating to flat in contour. Annual rainfall, which normally exceeds 30 in,
is reasonably well distributed. This ranch has had areas of tsetse fly in-
festation on both its eastern and western boundaries. Control measures taken
since 1966 by the Tsetse Control Division of the Ministry of Agriculture have
considerably reduced the level of infestation. Sufficient Government funds
are available to complete this work by mid 1969. Provision has been made in
the operating costs to maintain the barriers clear of bush and for drugs to
treat the few cases of trypanosomiasis which may occur before the fly has
been eliminated.
3.06      The West Kilinanjaro Ranch of 82,000 acres is already stocked with
a Boran-type beef breeding herd and a flock of Black-faced Persian sheep which
together total a cattle equivalent of around 7,000 animal units. The ranch
is mostly flat with small areas broken in contour varying in altitude from
around 6-7,000 feet. Rainfall is generally low at about 12 in per year. It
is outside the tsetse area.
3.07      The 80,000 acres of the Mkata Ranch included under the Project
are part of an extensive flat river basin. Situated at an altitude of about
1,500 feet, the mean annual maximum temperature is 80-85°F (27-29°C). It
has an average rainfall of around 30 in per year with a peak precipitation
usually occurring from February to April and a dry period which normally
extends from June to October. At least two-thirds of the area to be se-
lected would be free from flooding and hence grazeable all the year round.
The third of the ranch subject to flooding would help to ensure an adequate
supply of feed during periods of drought while the remainder could carry
the stock during the wet season. Considerable areas of this ranch are mode-
rately to heavily infested with tsetse fly and the cattle presently on the
ranch must be permanently protected with prophylactic drugs. Because of the
danger of inducing drug resistance, such areas are unsuitable for breeding
stock. However, they can be used for grazing cattle over the much shorter
period required for fattening. For these reasons together with its strategic



- 7 -
location on the railroad line, this ranch would be used for fattening only.
As such it vould have an important effect in increasing the weight of an
appreciable number of animals sent for slaughter, and would begin to meet
one of the objectives of a future second phase project (para 3.01). During
negotiations assurances were obtained from NACO (a) that all breeding cattle
from the Mkata ranch would be transferred to two new ranches to be selected
as soon as these are ready for stocking (b) that Mkata ranch would be operated
as a fattening enterprise on approximately 80,000 acres (c) that NACO would
transfer any breeding stock on Mkata ranch in excess of 3,000 breeding cows
to other ranches during the period that the two additional ranches are being
located and developed and (d) but that NACO may operate approximately 80,000
acres of Mkata ranch for the purpose of breeding and fattening cattle if evi-
dence is submitted satisfactory to the Association as to the technical and
financial feasibility of carrying on a cattle breeding enterprise on Mkata
ranch.
D. Land Tenure
3-.08     Land for the NACO ran etes is being obtained from Government on 99
year leases at a rental of Sh 0.50 (US$0.07) per acre per year. Initially,
provisional rights of user and terms are agreed to on the basis of sketch
plans for the ranch land to be alienated. These provisional rights of user
are replaced by registered Certificates of Occupancy after the completion of
a land survey. No disbursements would be made from proceeds of the IDA Credit
for investment on a Project ranch until the provisional rights of user covering
the whole area for that ranch are established by Government and appropriate
documentation is reviewed by IDA.



- 8 -
E. Cost Estimates
3.09      The total estimated cost of the Project equivalent to US$2.04 mil-
lion is summarized below by major investment categories (See Annex 3 for
details).
Foreign Exchange
Investment Category                        Cost                  Comionent
(Sh '000)  (US, OOO)          (US$'000
Physical Inputs
Roads and Firebreaks            740        104                   73
Water Supplies                2,260        316                  190
Fencing                         680         95                   56
Spray Races/Dips                280         39                   20
Ranch Buildings                 900        126                   32
Machinery and Tools             540         76                   75
Land Survey                    100          14                  -
Subtotal           5,500         770                 446
Livestock
Improved Bulls                 600          83                   83
Heifers                      1,480         207                  -
Feeder Steers                4o6           568                  -
Subtotal           6,140         858                  83
Contingencies                      1,175         164
Technical Services and
Training                     1,770         248                  151
Total Project Cost                14,585      2 040                  680
3.10      Broken down by major investment categories, the bulk of the Project
cost would be for cattle (46 percent) and physical inputs for ranch development
(42 percent). Funds for technical services and training account for the other
12 percent of total Project cost. Funds allocated for initial purchases of
feeder steers for fattening amount to 30 percent of total Project cost. The
availability of such cattle is indicated by recorded sales of immatures through
the primary markets. During the years 1960-1966 inclusive around 35,000 such
cattle were sold each year at a price ranging from Sh 85 to Sh 118 per head.
In the Project cost estimates, the purchase price for immatures is conserva-
tively estimated at Sh 200 per head. Approximately 20,000 unfinished cattle
are currently being slaughtered each year at Tanganyika Packers Ltd (TPL).
To discourage the sale of such unfinished animals for slaughter, TPL presently
purchases this type of stock at a deliberate disincentive price of Sh 0.33 per
lb liveweight compared to its price for slaughter stock above 500 lb liveweight



of Sh 0.55 per lb. In consequence, fattening is a profitable enterprise as
well as providing a method of quickly increasing beef output in Tanzania.
3.11      Cost estimates are based on prices prevailing in Tanzania.  A con-
tingency provision of around 10 percent is included to cover possible under-
estimates in quantity and per unit costs of the inputs required for ranch
development. The foreign exchange component is about US$680,000, 33 percent
of total Project cost and 52 percent of the proposed credit. Estimates of
the foreign exchange component of the Project were made on the basis of an
assessment of the direct import portion of the inputs required for ranch de-
velopment. The investment on each ranch would be disbursed over two to three
years. Disbursement of the Project would be completed in four years. Esti-
mates for technical services and training are projected in Annexes 4 and 5.
F. Proposed Financing
3.12      The Project cost of US$2.04 million equivalent would be financed as
follows:
Ranch               Technical
Develoment       Services and Training           Total
Source       (us$'ooo)           (us$'ooo)        %        (us$ooo)    %
IDA          1,165        65        161           65          1,326      65
NDC/NACO        627        35        87           35            714      35
Total         1,792      100        248          100          2,040    100
Overall, the Credit would provide 65 percent of the total Project cost.  NDC
would contribute 35 percent of Project on-ranch development costs as equity
capital. NACO would contribute 35 percent of the costs of the ranch manage-
ment training program and technical services. Assurances with respect to
these financing arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
G. Lending Operations
3.13      The Credit would be made on normal IDA terms to Government, which
would assume the foreign exchange risk. Government would lend the proceeds
of the Credit to NDC for a term of 50 years including a grace period of 10
years at 4 percent interest per year. NDC would relend to NACO these proceeds
at 7 percent interest per year for a term of 12 years including a grace period
of 5 years. NDC would make available repayments of principal from NACO's loan
not required to service the Government loan for financing the further develop-
ment of the agricultural sector through its subsidiary agricultural companies.
3.14      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:  (a) Government
would make available to NDC the IDA funds for on-ranch development of NACO
Project ranches on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA; (b) NDC would on-



- 10 -
lend the proceeds of the Credit to NACO for development of Project ranches
for 12 years including a grace period of 5 years at an interest rate of 7
percent; and (c) NDC would make available repayments of principal not required
to service the Government loan from its loan to NACO for financing the further
development of the agricultural sector through its subsidiary companies.
H. Procurement
3.15      International bidding has been agreed for the purchase of fencing
wire and water piping for Project ranches. Since the type and quality of
animals required can only be obtained from specific areas of the world, inter-
national competitive bidding would not be appropriate for livestock procure-
ment for Project ranches. Other required physical inputs would be subject
to competitive bidding. Private contractors are available for the installation
of water systems and construction of fencing.
3.16      All purchases of livestock required for the Project would be subject
to the approval of the Chief Development Officer (Ranching) and the purchased
livestock would be inspected by the Chief Veterinary Officer before being
released on Project ranches. There is an adequate supply of immatures and
unimproved breeding heifers in the country. Boran bulls would be purchased
from Kenya to upgrade local heifers on Project ranches. The development of
Project ranches would require in-country purchases of about 20,000 immatures
annually for four years. A total of 7,400 heifers suitable for crossing with
improved Boran bulls would be purchased in the country during the development
period.
I. Disbursements and Auditing
3.17      NACO would submit appropriate documentation through NDC to IDA
signed by the Chief Development Officer (Ranching) and the Chief Accountant
(NDC) for the disbursement of funds for ranch development. Withdrawals from
the IDA Credit for the development of project ranches would be 65 percent of
the disbursements made by NDC to NACO for the amounts paid by NACO for ranch
development expenditures. Disbursements for 65 percent of the cost of NACO's
technical services and training would be made against appropriate documen-
tation certified by the Chief Accountant of NACO for such amounts as shall
have been paid by NACO for this category.
3.18      Independent commercial auditing services are available.  Cooper
Brothers, a well-known international accounting firm with branch offices in
Tanzania, regularly audits the accounts of NDC and its subsidiary companies.
These auditing services and practices are satisfactory. Assurances have been
obtained that separate accounts would be kept for each project ranch and that
these accounts and the financial accounts of NACO would be audited annually
by an accountant or accounting firm acceptable to IDA. Furthermore, these
audited accounts would be forwarded to IDA within three months after the
close of NACO's fiscal year.



- 11 -
J. Financial Implications
3.19      While NDC would contribute Sh 4.5 million (us$ 630,000) in equity
capital to NACO, it would have recovered in the 12th year of the Project
after administrative expenses about Sh 9.7 million from the 3 percent spread
on its 12-year loan to NACO and the repayment of this loan to NDC. This
Sh 9.7 million (Us$ 1.36 million) would be reinvested in NDC's subsidiary agri-
cultural companies. NACO's estimated net annual operating income from Project
ranches before debt service would be Sh 2.8 million (US$392,000) at full de-
velopment. After full repayment of the loan to NDC but before payment of
corporate taxes (40 percent) the Project ranches would have generated an esti-
mated cumulative cash surplus of Sh 10.6 million (US$ 1.5 million). NACO has
projected its paid up capital stock (wholly owned by NDC) to be about Sh 43
million (US$ 6 million) at the end of the disbursement period of the proposed
loan. The long-term debt of NACO at the same time is estimated to be about
Sh 9 million. This would result in a very favorable ratio of medium term
debt to equity of almost 1 to 5. The financial implications of the Project
for NDC and NACO are projected in Annex 3, Tables 4 and 5.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Project Organization
4.01      NACO would be responsible for carrying out the proposed Project.
This company, proposed by NDC's Board of Directors in December 1967, was
legally incorporated on May 22, 1968. This incorporation of NDC's former
Agricultural Department into a separate subsidiary company has a number of
advantages. It establishes a self-contained corporate and financial body
which facilitates financing development projects, permits realistic evalua-
tion of operational and financial resuLts, and it is headed by a separate
board of directors who are responsive to the livestock industry. This board
would be composed of five directors including the General Manager of NDC as
chairman, the Principal Secretary and the Director of Veterinary Services
from the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Principal Secretary
from the Ministry of Lands, Settlement and Water Development, and a prominent
local farmer.
4.02      NACO would be responsible for planning, organizing and implementing
the investment program for each ranch, as well as for its management. The
principal administrative officer of NACO is the General Manager. Other admin-
istrative officials directly concerned with the proposed Project would be
the Chief Development Officer (Ranching), the Chief Veterinary Officer and
Senior Ranch Managers who direct the day-to-day operations of the ranches
(see Annex 1 Chart 2).
4.03      The position of General Manager would be filled by a qualified
Tanzanian. The positions of Chief Development Officer (Ranching) and Chief
Veterinary Officer are filled by expatriates from the U. K. Any appointments
to the positions of General Manager, Chief Development Officer (Ranching) and
Chief Veterinary Officer of NACO would be subject to the prior approval of



- 12 -
IDA during the Project disbursement period. The appointments of Senior Ranch
Managers of Project ranches would be subject to the approval of the General
Manager, NACO, and the Chief Development Officer (Ranching) after prior con-
sultation with IDA.
B. Capitalization of NACO
4.04      NDC has capitalized NACO with an authorized share capital of Sh 50
million (US$ 7 million).  Its initial paid up capital is Sh 17.4 million
(US$ 2.4 million) being the equivalent of the amount of outside loans owed by
the Agricultural Department, its open capital account with NDC and cumulative
losses. This capitalization gives NACO a satisfactory financial position.
It is now free of past debt and interest obligations to NDC. See Annex 1,
para 17 and Table 6 for details of the Agricultural Department's financial
condition prior to incorporation and the capitalization of NACO by NDC.
4.05      Currently, NACO is considering an extensive program of development
in the dairy sector. When the beef ranching development project was appraised,
NDC planned to invest about Sh 15 million in dairy development through NACO,
a sum about three times as large as NDC was planning to invest in beef deve-
lopment from 1968-1972   No development plans have been put forward by NACO
to indicate how this money would be utilized. In view of the size of the
potential investment in relation to NDC's proposed contribution to the beef
project, the fact that no detailed investment program has been put forward,
NACO's lack of prior experience in the dairying field and the possibility
that losses in the dairy program could impair the success of the beef ranching
program, assurances were obtained during negotiations that NACO would inform
the Association of any proposed investment projects in dairying, sufficiently
in advance of such investments to enable NACO to take into account the comments
of the Association with respect to the technical feasibility and the economic
and financial viability of such investment projects.
C. Technical Services and Training
4.o6      Technical services for the Project would be provided by the Chief
Development Officer (Ranching), directly responsible to the General Manager
of NACO. The Chief Development Officer (Ranching) would be assisted by the
Chief Veterinary Officer.
4.07      Finance for the cost of the Chief Development Officer (Ranching)
and the Chief Veterinary Officer during the disbursement period of the Project
is included in the cost estimates of the Project; thereafter they would be
met from NACO's operating income. Finance is also included for short-term
consultant services to assist the Chief Development Officer (Ranching) (a) in
preparing the financial and economic aspects of the Project ranches (b) in
developing plans for efficient livestock watering facilities and (c) evaluating
the effectiveness of tsetse clearance and control measures for Project ranches.
Details of the phasing and costs of technical services are given in Annex 4.



- 13 -
4.o8      The Agricultural Department of NDC had pursued a practical re-
cruitment and training program of assistant ranch managers and field assis-
tants for its ranches. NACO intends to continue this program. By 1970 some
30 assistant ranch managers will complete their on-ranch experience (six
months) and classroom courses of two years in Tanzania Training Institutes,
and University College at Kabete in Kenya. Assistant ranch managers will then
be placed on ranches to work under the close supervision of the Senior Ranch
Managers. After four years of such additional experience, selected men will
be promoted to ranch managers.
4.09      In addition, some 25 Field Assistants will be given a year's
training course on the ranches. Six months will be spent on practical work
programs on NACO ranches and six months will be spent on basic courses on
the principles of elementary veterinary, animal husbandry and range manage-
ment practices.
4.10      Currently, the expenses of this program are being met out of annual
operating income. In view of the anticipated ranch management needs of NACO
and in view of the likely requirements of the livestock industry for such
management skills, finance is provided for this program from the proposed
Credit. Further details as to numbers participating, phasing and the annual
cost are given in Annex 5.
V. MARKET PROSPECTS AND RANCH INCOMES
A. Marketing
5.01      An extra 1,600 tons of beef are expected to be produced annually at
full development from the Project, most of which would be consumed domesti-
cally. Fat stock from Kitengule Ranch would be sold on-ranch to local butchers
in the West Lake region to meet the rising demand for better quality meat in
that area. Surplus cattle above local requirements would be shipped across
Lake Victoria to Port Bell in Uganda for sale to the Uganda Meat Packers, Ltd.
Surplus heifers would be sold to cooperative ranches being established in the
West Lake region. In neighboring Uganda improved Boran-cross heifers two to
three years of age are currently selling around Sh 500 per head. Cattle and
sheep from the West Kilimanjaro Ranch would be marketed in the Arusha/Moshi
area. The establishment in Arusha of the headquarters for the East African
Community would provide an outlet for a large part of the quality beef and
mutton supplied by this ranch. The bulk of the fattened steers from Mkata
Ranch would be railed to Dar es Salaam for slaughter at the Tanganyika Packers,
Ltd (TPL) plant. About one-half would be processed for export in cans, the
other half slaughtered and sold for local consumption in Dar es Salasam. The
marketing outlets for the two unsited breeding/fattening ranches to be included
in the Project would be reviewed in the course of their evaluation.



- 14 -
B. Production and Income on Project Ranches
5.02      The benefits to Project ranches from the new investments are pro-
jected in Annex 2, Tables 1 - 4. These expected results are summarized
below:
Before    After Five  After Full   Percent
Ranches                          Development   Years      Development- Lncrease
Kitengule Ranch (100,000 acres)
Total Herd (Head)              12,250     21,600        21,600       76
Cattle Sales (Head)           3,1,870      3,770         3,900      108
Net Operating Income (Sh'000)-'  296          895          959      224
Herd Value (Sh'000)             4,358      7,521         7,540        73
Mkata Fattening Ranch (80,000 acres)
Total Herd (Head)               4,000     12,000        12,000      200
Cattle Sales (Head)             3,760     11,520        11,520      206
Net Operating Income (Sh'000)-' (812)         500          500
West KilimanJaro Ranch (82,000 acres)
Total Cattle Herd (Head)        6,100       7,642        7,920        30
Cattle Sales (Head)               920      1,200         1,400       52
Total Sheep Herd (Head)         5,400       6,200        6,200        15
Sheep Sales (Head)              1,130      1,510         1,510       34
Net Operating Income (Sh'OOO)    139          250          352      153
Herd and Flock Value (Sh'000)  2,540       3,040         3,174       25
Typical Breeding!Fattening Ranch
(80,000 acres)
Total Herd (Head)                -        14,520        15,840       -
Cattle Sales (Head)              -         4,300         2,860       -
Net Operating Income (Sh'000)   -             470          565        -
Herd Value (Sh'000)              -         3,974         5,533       -
1/   Seven Years for Kitengule, four years for Mkata, and seven years for West
Kilimanjaro.
2/   After full development compared to before development.
3/   Before taxes.
C. Financial Incentives
5.03      Prices received by producers of improved fat stock for sale for
local consumption vary between Sh 0.70 - 0.75 per pound liveweight. Sales
of fattened native steers to TPL and local butchers return Sh 0.55 - 0.60
per pound liveweight. Sales of improved in-calf heifers are likely to obtain
Sh 500 per head (us$ 70). The increasing demand for improved breeding and
fat stock, as well as fattened stock from the traditional cattle areas, is
likely to keep these prices at or above these levels.



- 15 -
5.04      There is a proposal for the establishment of a National Livestock
Commission. Its functions would be to "promote, organize, regulate, control
and develop the production, marketing, processing and distribution of live-
stock, meat and meat products and by-products." This Commission intends to
make substantial improvements in the present live cattle marketing and distri-
bution sector of the industry.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The principal direct benefits resulting from the Project would be
an increased production of beef and the increased production of improved
heifers, At full development, 1,800 additional breeding heifers valued at
Sh 900,000 (US$126,000) would be sold annually from Project ranches. The in-
creased annual output of beef is estimated at 1,600 tons, cold dressed
weight, valued at approximately Sh 4 million (US$56o,ooo).
6.02      The financial rate of return on the investment, adjusted after cor-
porate taxes, is about 11 percent for Project ranches. The internal rate of
return to the economy of Tanzania, discounted over the life of the Project,
is about 18 percent (Annex 7, Table 1).
6.03      The production of improved grades of beef from Project ranches
would partially meet the increasing internal demand for this type of meat.
Stock from fattening ranches would be sold for canning and export and for
domestic consumption. The production of breeding heifers and improved bulls
would substantially reduce Tanzania's import requirements from Kenya. Esti-
mated foreign exchange savings from this latter source together with the
foreign exchange earnings achieved from export sale of canned beef production
would amount to about Sh 1 million (US$140,000) a year net of annual foreign
exchange outlays directly imputable to the Project.
6.04      In addition to the benefits specified above, there would be cumu-
lative direct benefits which are not quantifiable. The demonstration of
better management practices, improved production and disease control tech-
niques are examples of such benefits accruing to the economy. Also, the
practical training program for assistant ranch managers and field assistants
would provide qualified staff for these and future beef ranching development
schemes in Tanzania.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The Project is technically sound and economically justified.  The
financial rate of return accruing to the investment in NACO is adequate.
The rate of return to the economy is satisfactory. A Credit of US$1.3 mil-
lion is appropriate. The borrower would be the Government of Tanzania.
NDC would channel the Credit funds from Government to its subsidiary, NACO,
as a long-term loan. NDC would contribute 35 percent of ranch development
costs to NACO in the form of an equity subscription. The Credit would be



- 16 -
about 65 percent of total Project cost. While the Bank's Economic Committee
recommended an average of 70 to 75 percent financing for projects in Tanzania,
65 percent is considered appropriate for the Project in view of the projected
financial resources available to NACO from NDC. The foreign exchange component
would be about 52 percent of the proposed credit.
7.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) The Government of Tanzania would:
(i)   undertake a survey of the livestock sector which
would lead to a more broadly based project designed
to integrate the traditional and commercial beef
producing sectors (para 3.01);
(ii)   relend the proceeds of the Credit for ranch development
to the National Development Corporation for a term of
50 years including a ten-year grace period at 4 percent
interest per annum for these funds (para 3.13);
(b) The National Development Corporation would:
(i)   contribute to NACO 35 percent of Project development
costs in the form of an equity subscription (para. 3.12);
(ii)   on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to NACO at 7 percent
interest per annium for a term of 12 years including a
five-year grace period for the development of Project
ranches (para 3.13);
(iii)   make available the proceeds of the payments received
from NACO, not required to service its loan to Govern-
ment and to defray administrative costs in respect to
its NACO loan, for the purpose of financing further
agricultural development through its subsidiary agri-
cultural companies (para 3.13).
(c) The National Agricultural Company Ltd would:
(i)   submit to IDA for its approval within 18 months of the
effective date of the proposed credit the full ranch
development plans of the two new ranches to be selected
prior to requesting disbursement for development of these
two ranches (para 3.03);
(ii)   transfer all breeding stock on Mkata ranch to two new
ranch sites as soon as these are ready for stocking, and
thereafter operate Mkata as a fattening enterprise
(para 3.07);



- 17 -
(iii)   submit evidence to IDA of the provisional rights of user
for each Project ranch prior to requesting disbursement
from IDA for investment on that ranch (para 3.08);
(iv)   undertake international bidding for the purchase of
fencing wire and piping for water supplies for Project
ranches and subject purchases of other physical inputs
to competitive bidding (para 3.15);
(v)   subject all purchases of breeding stock for Project
ranches to the approval of the Chief Development Officer
(Ranching) and inspection by NACO's Chief Veterinary
Officer (para 3.16);
(vi)   maintain separate accounts for each Project ranch,
arrange for the auditing of these accounts and the
accounts of NACO by an accountant acceptable to IDA,
and forward the audited accounts to IDA 3 months after
the close of WACO's fiscal year (pars 3.18);
(vii)   consult with the IDA on the appointment of Senior Ranch
Managers for Project ranches (para 4.03);
(viii)   obtain the approval of IDA for any appointments to
the positions of the Chief Development Officer (Ranching)
and the Chief Veterinary Officer under terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to IDA during the disbursement
period of the IDA Credit (para. 4.03);
(ix)   obtain the approval of IDA for any appointment to
the position of the General Manager of NACO during the
period of disbursement (para 4.03); and
(x)   submit the investment program in the dairy sector for
prior review by IDA (para 4.05).



ANNEX 1
TANZANIA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Corporation
A. Background
1.        The National Development Corporation (NDC) came into existence on
January 1, 1965. It was effected by an Act of Parliament passed in December
1964 "to reconstruct and rename the Tanganyika Development Corporation Act,
1962, to make provision for the transfer of certain assets of the Government
to the said Corporation, to dissolve the Tanganyika Agricultural Corporation
(TAC) and to transfer its assets and liabilities to the National Development
Corporation".
2.        Under the amended Act, "the business of the Corporation shall be
to facilitate and promote the economic development of Tanganyika". It is
given broad powers to achieve this objective by conducting business either
alone or in association with any other person or body.
B. Organization
3.        As provided in the amended Act, 1964, the members of NDC, who
function as a Board of Directors, shall consist of:
(i) a Minister of State, nominated by the President, who shall be
Chairman;
(ii) five other Ministers, being the Ministers for the time being of
Finance, Industries, Commerce, Agriculture and Tourism; and
(iii)  four other persons (referred to as "appointed members") appointed
by the President.
The Minister for Finance is Deputy Chairman
C. Management
4.        Business operations are conducted by a senior staff of about
20 members through three principal divisions: Development, Finance and Invest-
ments, and Business and Accounts. (See Chart 1 for organization structure.)
Most staff members are Tanzanian citizens. The general manager, who is a
Government career official, 38 years old, was appointed by the President in
November 1966. The deputy general manager is an expatriate on contract. The
strongest unit in NDC's organizational structure is a Projects Appraisal Com-
mittee composed of the general manager, deputy general manager, chief accoun-
tant, chief economist, chief development officer, and the managers of NACO



ANNEX 1
Page 2
and the Tanzania Finance Company. This committee, which meets weekly,
initiates policy, reviews investment projects, supervises operations and
prepares the agenda for the Board of Directors.
D. Financial Condition and Operations
5.        Whereas the predecessor corporation, Tanganyika Development Corpo-
ration, was financed by subsidies from the Treasury, the NDC is self-financing
and, apart from borrowed funds and goods transferred to it under inter-
Governmental technical assistance, relies entirely upon its own income from
investments for its operations. In this sense, the Corporation is a commercial
organization which needs to exercise its best efforts to operate at a profit.
6.        NDC's capital fund represents the various amounts of shares and
grants received from Government plus the net assets taken over from the
Tanganyika Agricultural Corporation. This amounts to nearly Sh 100 million
(US$14 m).  Net operating surpluses of around Sh 10.5 million (US$ 1.5 m)
annually since its incorporation have substantially improved NDC's total
reserves. These have increased from only Sh 2.8 million at the beginning of
its establishment (January 1, 1965) to about Sh 27 million (uS$ 3.8 m) at the
end of 1966. They were further increased to Sh 77 million (US$ 10.8 m) for 1967.
7.        NDC's net operating surplus (before provision for depreciation of
investment and loans) was Sh 10.9 million for 1965 and Sh 10.4 million for
1966. Comparatively, its income was higher in 1967, about Sh 29 million
(Annex 1, Table 2). This increase is attributable mainly to much larger divi-
dends from its shares in Williamson Diamonds Ltd, which accounts for 70-75
percent of its total gross income. Due to a change in 1966 in sorting arrange-
ments of diamonds, only six sales were made, whereas normally 12 sales are
made annually. Hence, 18 sales were to be made in 1967. NDC projects its
average annual net income at around Sh 24 million (US$ 3.4 m).
E. Investment Portfolio and Policy
8.        NDC's portfolio of investments and commitments covers a wide range
of sectors. The principal sector is mining which accounts for 38 percent,
but much of this is represented by its inherited shares from Government in
Williamson Diamonds Ltd. (NDC holds 50 percent of total shares). Agriculture,
16 percent, and agricultural processing, 20 percent, closely equal the amount
of investments in the mining sector. Other sectors of investment include
hotels and tourism 7 percent, finance 6 percent, textiles,5 percent and
miscellaneous 8 percent.
9.        It is a stated policy of NDC to place first priority of investment
on the agricultural industry (principally livestock and livestock products)
and second priority on tourism.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
F. Agricultural Department
Background
10.       When NDC came into existence on January 1, 1965, it took over the
assets of the Tanganyika Agricultural Corporation. These assets comprised
five ranches - Ruvu, Mkata, Kongwa, Nachingwea, Kitengule plus the head office
in Dar es Salaam. Another ranch, West Kilimanjaro, was acquired later in
1965. All of the ranching operations have been handled by an agricultural
department within NDC.
Financial Operations
11.       Operational losses were incurred by the Agricultural Department in
1965, 1966 and 1967 (Table 5). Several reasons account for these losses.
Foremost has been the operation of the Nachingwea ranch situated in the south-
east corner of Tanzania. It was operated as a beef breeding ranch for which
it is unsuitable because of unfavorable ecological conditions. In the future,
it would be operated as a holding ground for grass fattening of cattle for
short intervals of three to four months. On this basis it is projected to
break even. Other losses incurred are attributable to a one-time operation
in 1966 (at Government request) of a holding ground a Shishiyu which was
poorly equipped and basically not suitable for short-term feeding operations;
and the creation in 1966 of a Marketing and Planning Section at headquarters
to which all planning and programming costs are charged but which more aptly
are development costs.
Management
12.       At the time of appraisal, the position of General Manager of NACO
was filled by an able and well-qualified Tanzanian. Any new appointment to
this position of General Manager of NACO would be subject to the approval
of IDA. Three of the six ranches have expatriate managers. Assistant
managers and field assistants are Tanzanians. NACO has had undervay for
some time a practical recruitment and training program to develop ranch
managerial capabilities.  Ultimately, some of the Tanzanian personnel would
be qualified for senior level management responsibilities.
13.       The position of Chief Development Officer (Ranching) was established
in 1967 and filled by a U.K. expatriate from the Agricultural Development
Service, Nairobi. The position of Chief Veterinary Officer is filled by an
expatriate from the U.K. The Chief Development Officer (Ranching) and the
Chief Veterinary Officer would be directly concerned with the development and
operations of the proposed Project ranches. These are key positions where
qualified and experienced management abilities will be vital for the success
of the Project. Appointments to these two positions would be subject to the
prior approval of IDA. The next lower echelon of management, Senior Ranch
Managers for Project ranches, would be subject to the approval of the General
Manager of NACO and the Chief Development Officer (Ranching) in consultation
with IDA.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
National Agricultural Company Ltd (NACO)
i4.       Essentially, NDC is a development bank and a national holding company
for Government's business interests. These functions are fundamentally dif-
ferent from the operation of ranches, and it was an anomaly for NDC to show
livestock in its assets whereas otherwise its interests are composed predomi-
nately of shares and debentures. Forming the Agricultural Department into a
limited liability company places these investments in the same position as
NDC's other investments. The advantages are as follows:
(a) NDC's liability is limited as a shareholder;
(b) NDC's investments are properly secured either as loan or
equity;
(c) The new company has an established capital structure on
which a proper return on capital could be evaluated;
(d) the new company has a Board of Directors who would reflect
the interests of the agricultural industry and would improve
coordination of national development policy; and
(e) the new company would be able to enter into partnership with
other interests, local or foreign, for the promotion of joint
ventures.
15.       NDC transformed the Agricultural Department into a subsidiary,
the National Agricultural Company Ltd (NACO), effective May 22, 1968.
Administration of NACO
16.       The present Board of Directors is composed of:
General Manager, NDC - Chairman
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Director of Veterinary Services, Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Lands, Settlement and Water
Development
Manager - Tanganyika Packer's Ltd.
A prominent farmer (yet to be appointed)
The General manager is paid by NDC and seconded to NACO, as is the Chief
Accountant. The General Manager of NACO reports twice yearly to the Board of
NDC on progress of operations and brings to the Board further applications for
investment by NDC in NACO. The organization of NACO is shown in Chart 3.
Capital Structure
17.       NACO was incorporated in May 1968 with an authorized capital of
Sh 50 million (US$ 7 m). The first step was the conversion of net assets and



ANNEX 1
Page 5
long-term loans of the Agricultural Department into paid-up capital of around
Sh 17.4 million (US$ 2.6 m).  Thus, NACO would have a sound financial base,
free of interest and loan repayment obligations. Included in the phased capi-
tal contribution by NDC to NACO is Sh 4.5 million (US$ 630,000) for the further
development of the five ranches envisaged under the Project. NDC estimates of
its future phasing of paid-up capital to NACO are shown in Annex 1, Table 6.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
TANZANIA
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Corporation
Annual Balance Sheet, 1964-1967
(Sh Million)
DECEMBER 31
1964     1965      1966      1967
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Balances                         0.8       3.6       0.1       1.2
Short-Term Deposits                            1.7       8.9       0.5      32.7
Debtors                                        0.3       1.7       0.8       5.1
Stock and Stores                                -        9.1      11.4      12.0
Expenditure and Carried Forward                 -        0.3       0.7       3.7
Subsidiary Companies (Shares and Loans)        5.8      19.7      26.6     111.5
Associates (Shares and Loans)                 18.1      82.7      87.1      95.8
Land, Buildings and Installations              0.2       5.1       4.9       5.h
Plant, Machinery and Equipment                 0.1       1.0       1.1       1.3
Capital Works in Progress, Estate and
Ranch Development                             -        0.2       0.6       1.9
TOTAL ASSETS                                 27.0    132.3    133.8        270.6
LIABILITIES
Bank Overdrafts                                 -         -        0.7        -
Creditors and Accrued Charges                  0.1       2.0       1.7       4.2
Taxation                                       0.8       0.7       0.5       0.3
Short-Term Loans                                -        6.5       1.9      13.6
Subsidiary Company                              --                  -         -
Long-Term Loans                                 -        9.2       6.9       78.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES                              0.9      18.4      11.?       97.1
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Capital Fund                                  23.2      95.1      95.1       96.5
Capital Reserve                                2.8       9.9      12.0      20.7
Revenue Reserves
General                                       -        7.0      12.8      4l.8
Subsidiary Companies' Losses                  -        1.1       1.7       4.2
Unappropriated Profits                       0.1       0.8       0.5       3.3
Provision for depreciation of
investments                                _95
TOTAL NET ASSETS                                 26.1     113.9     122.1     173.5
TOTAL                                            27.0     132.3     133.8     27C.4
Source: NDC Annual Reports.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Corporation
Profit and Loss Account. 1965-1967
(Sh Million)
1965       1966       1967
Income from Subsidiaries                                  2.0        2.4         4.8
Income from Associates                                   12.3       10.3        4o.7
Interest Earned Less Interest Paid
on Deposits                                            0.3        0.3         1.o
Miscellaneous Income                                      0.2         0.3        0.2
17.7       13.3        46.7
Losses Less Profits of Direct Projects                    0.8          .7          4
W          12.6    46.1
Head Office Administrative Expenditures                   3.1        2.2         6.7
Net Operating Surplus of the Corporation              10.9       10.4        39.4
Provision for Depreciation of Investments
and Loans                                               -         2.6           6
10. 797
Unappropriated Profits of the Previous Year               0.1         o.8        0.4
Net Operating Profits                                    11.0        87        32.2
APPROPRIATIONS
Capital Reserve                                        2.1        2.1          -
General Reserve                                        7.0        5.5        29.0
Reserve for Losss of Certain Subsidiary
Companies                                           1.1        0.6        2.5
10.2'                 31.5
Unappropriated Profits Carried Forward                    o.8        o.4         0.7
11.0         72.2
Source: NDC Annual Reports.



ANHZS 1
Table 3
BEEP BANCHINB EEOOLOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL DE7ELOFMENT OFORPEATETON
INCOME OF TiHE EOFOB ATION JANUARY 1 - DBCIIBkE  31, 1967                                                   INEVETIMBTS AND IOANS, DEBOEREB  31. 1967
Subsidiary Coanies                                 Dimid-nde (TSh)       Tasret (TEhs)                      Sobhidiary Companies                          Shares (TShs)         Lo.sa  (TShW)
ohioba Tea Cespany Limited                             _                   63,596                           B. A. T. Taasaeia Lieited                    39,600,000                -
ITtera-ti-la   Tradiag  ad Credit                                                                           Bkoba Tea CGongny LImited                     2,700,900            1,700,000
Company af Tegmayika Lisited                      1,617,030                -
Coastal En1Iry ITdetries Limited                325,900                -
L.oc  acyora Hatels Liaited                             -                  10,000
PFrisdship Tactile Mill LTAited                  20,000                _
Mhanaaahi Engine-ring ad Co-
tr-otiDg Com0py Limitod                             108,333                -                              Oateecatloal  Trading aad Credit
Cnspmy of Taageytka Limited--
National Printing Company Limited                       -                   9,902
Etliajaro Bre-eie Limited                     9.070,620 
Heo ifrio- BoHsI Limited                                -                     956
Kiliajaro Kotal  Limited                          2,000                -
Ny-nsa SaIt Hines (Teaganyika) Limited                  -                    -
Lake H¶aaaEtels Llnitad                       1,060,000              21,,000
T-ogacyiko Tost-nt Coffee Company
Limit.d                                               -                  87,062                           Lime Prod-ote De-liop.-nt Liited                 295,000               -
Ta-ganyik. Heersoheom Corporatio                                                                            Heananohi Engineer-ig   d Can-
Limited                                              -105,42                                                tra-ting Compy Limited                       1,776,000               _
Tganyika Paok-re Lisited                           1,90,H9t8_ -                                            Hnanohi Trading Cs,pany Limited                   95,260
Tanzania ireanries Limited                             837,300               -                              Natio-n  Printing Ceepany Limited                939,420             385,900
Tanzania Cashe.. HMahines Limited                       -                  16,796                           Hatiana1 Small Idustries
Coeporaito  Limited                           768,000-
Tan.ania ti Di d COtting CoGpany Linited               -                   12,740
Nee Afrio- Hotels Limited                      3,161,958             150,000
Tanznia Hildlifm  Safaris Limited                       -                  20,000
NortherB DBiries Limited                         40,0000
4,454,151            334,494                          Nlza Salt Nines (Taganyika)
..........            .......                            .._. Limited
Toinl per prasit nd Loss acOGot                        TOts 47868645                                    Seremsti  Sefari Lodges Limited                    2,000               -
Tanganyika Thetnt Coffes
Cempany Lamited                             2,400,000            1,600,00P
A.sooaited Canpanise
Tanganyka Mee-ehaon
FPetoh ya Viaitni Hotels Limitsd                        -                   7,500                             Coep-ratio  Lisited                             -                1,450,000
.hamm, NBega, Igemb.. bo Co-                                                                                Tangauyikt  Paokere Limited                       -
overatie  ai- Lio ited                               -                   92,995
Tanzania   Breveri- , Limited                13,418,027                -
Kila.a Listrirt Deelopmemt  ordo                                             -
K-natilt Yet t.. Li ited                                -                  44,129                           iOne        C.sth  Macthime, Limited               1,000              270,000
Tanaia Manad Totting
Me.-hi TLimt-   d Vhil                                                                                        Cempry Limited                               1,590,000           2,000,00C
A,.- bl.- L1mited                                     -5,965               _
Tazania Zlina SWp1lise Ligited                  360,000               _
M-ane  Teottlee Limited                                 -                  11,630
Ng-T=leli FeD-rs                                                                                            T nr 4i Tinmo,  Compeny Limid                 20cc,T isOen
Cooperatims Usio  Limited                            --                                                     '8" Shares                                   2,300,000
Sihl So Mills (T,ang-y-ia) Limited                      _                  12,169                           Tanzni Ptbli.hltO     Noose Limited               -                    -
Taganyikaa Portlftd Cemet                                                                                   Tanaia Tohaco  Proo..simg
Company imitad                                                          8 06,326                           Company L00itd                               2,000,000               -
Tanganyika Tegry Pleotis LiUited                        -                  69,306                           Tanania Wildlifa Safaris Limited               1,100,000              ,00,000
Tang-nyiaa Tobaaoo Hoard                                -                    -                              Tambo Chipboards Limited                         336,0o0              -
Tanite Company Limited                                  -                 37b,250
103,330,285           6,195,900
Williansoc DiEande Limited                          40,000000                -_
Total per baano- shtot                          TSOs  111,526,185
hO,005,965            698,305                                                                                       .......
..........            ......... ...
Totd1 per pr-Tit and lose aooaant                     TSh   bo,70C4,270                             Aesoniatsd Coopsaie
Host Africa  Iadotrial Penmatian
Saro.oes (Tana.nia) LimIted                 2,000,000
Purata ye Viticni Sotels LUnited                450,000             100,000
H.11ar-k Hotels (Taoeanta) Limited                  600               -
Yhean, Nesga, Igebec.a.b
Oc-operattos InUi- Limited                     -                 1,156,638
tilasa Dhetriot D)ceop.eet Board                 -                    -
Ocantili Estates Limited                        000,000               -
M-ananohi Traco,r and Vehicle
issehbler  Limited                            258,720
M-nee Tentilee Limited                        6,000,000            1,0oo,o0O
Natianal C.-operatime and
Der-pMant Batk                                  2,500
N.tiol Steel Corporatioc Limited                     20
S.lli bEtetas Limited                          h,882,260              -
Sikh SOa Hillc (Tangeiki) Licitad             1,019,362              132,000
Sisi Tntertr-ee. Limited                         10,000               -
Company Lisitmd                             6,000,000               -
Tanganyka Portland Omnet
Cr      Lany imited                         5,136,000              400,00
Tanganyika Tegry Pl-stics
Limited                                     1.170,000            1,103,60C
Tanite Compay Limited                            -                 7,b85,00n
Tanzania Beg Corcoratio  Limited                300,000
Willisan   taDiade
Li.ited                                    56,451,500               -
83,8827962          11,957,230
Total psr balane sheet                         TShA  95,810,200



ANNEX 1
Ta_bl_e 1
TANZANIA
BEEF RANHCING DEVElOPMENT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED BAIANCE SHEETS
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT (NDC) 1965-1967
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COMPANY LTD., JAN. 1, 1968
(sh'000)
ASSETS                          Decenber 31             January 1         LIABILITIES                     December 31          January]
1965       1966      1967        11968                                    1965       196O    19b7      1968
Current Assets                                                          Current Liabilities
Cash                       1,688       112         767       767        Accounts Payable             290       357      315       315
Accounts Receivable
and Sundry              1,202       462        454        455        Provisions                   257       552      638      326
Debtors                                                                 NDC HQ's Advances             -         -     1,900
Livestock                    8,618    11,020     11J,646    11,646              Sub-total              547       909    2,853       641
Non-prjoect ranches _               (5,923)    (5,186    (5,186)      Long-term liabilities
Project ranches: /                                                        a   Ranrc  (Gov't Loan)    812       853      896
Breeding stoc,3                   (3,583)    (5,825    (5,825)        Ruvu Ranch (Gov't Loan)   1,500    1,500    1,440
Feeder Stock-                     (1,514)    (  635    (  635)        British Aid (ex-Treasury) 1,168    1,168    1,168
Supplies                       507       442         374       374        British Aid (ex NDC HQ's)   789        789      789
Sub-total             12,015    12,036      13,241    13,242         NDC HQ's W. Kilimanjaro   1,970    1,970    1,970.
Sub-total           6,239    6,280    6,263
FIXED ASSETS
Land and Buildings        3,781      3,584      3,540      3,981      TOTAL LIABILITIES            6,786    7,189    9,116
Plant and Machinery          279       275        248        248
Tractors and Vehicles        455       489        483        483      NET ASSETS
Formation and Develop-
ment expenses              135       141        146        146        NDC HQ's Current Acct.   10,955   10,955   10,955
Capital Works in Progress    83         52        120        120        Current and Cumulative
Miscellaneous                 89        83        107        107         Loss carried forward       (904)  (1,4814)  (2,186)
Sub-total      4,822     4,624      4,644      5,085      TOTAL NET ASSETS            10,051    9,471    8,769  _- -
SHARE CAPITAL                                              641
Authorized capital 50,0)
Issued capital                                        17,373
General Reserve                                          313
Total        16,837   16,660      17,885     18,327                   Total          16,837   16,660   17,885    18,327
I/Paentheses indicate sub-totals by class of stock for non-project and project ranches.
SOURCE: NDC and NACO



ANNEX 1
Table 5
TANZANIA
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement.1965 - 1967
(Sh to0)
1965       1966        1967
Agricultural Department Headquarters        (230)      (908)       (1,197)
Kitengule Ranch                             (357)      (395)      ( 310)
Kongwa Ranch                                 257        893          946
Mkata Ranch                                 (140)         6        (  43)
Ruvu Ranch                                   103        428          102
West Kilimanjaro Ranch                        18       ( 40)           11
Subtotal                                 (349)      ( 16)         4 491)
Nachingwea Base, Farms and Ranch            (555)      (564)       ( 131)
Total                                    (904)      (580)      ( 622)
Source: NDC - Agricultural Department and NACO.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
TANZANIA
BEEF RANCHING DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
National Agricultural Company. Ltd.
Phasing of Capitalization by NDC
(Sh Million)
Initial            Additional Capitalization by Years
Capital-                                               Total
izationi/   1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    (1968-72)
Beef Ranch Development
(This Project)                 -       1.11    1.72    1.36    0.29       -         4.48
Dairy Development                -       1.66    5.00    3.18    2.88    2.88       15.60
Hog Development                  -       0.02     -       -        -       -         0.02
Estimated Cash Deficit                   2.04                                        2.o4
Total                         17,4o0    4.83    6.72    4.54    3.17    2.88        22.14
Source:  NDC Board memorandum, December, 1967.
1/ Precise allocation by sector has not been made.



TANZANIA: BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
CHAIRMAN AND
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPUTY                                                                                                                                                             ASSISTANT
GENERAL MANAGER                                                                                                                                                      GENERAL MANAGER
CHIEF ECONOMIST AND                       CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
FINANCIAL CONTROLLER                       C      ACUTN
GROUP                  CORPORATION                  GROUP                  DEVELOPMENT                INVESTMENT                      DEPUTY                       TAFCO AND
PERSONNEL MANAGER              ATTORNEY             INTERNAL AUDITOR                DIVISION                MANAGEMENT                  CHIEF ACCOUNTANT              TAFCO COMPANIES
DIVISION                                    JAND INVESTMENTS
CHIEF                                                                         CO-OPERATIVE AND
CORPORATION                                                                                               HEAD OF                          NDC                    NUTA INVESTMENTS
SECRETARY                                                                    DEVELOPMENT                  DIVISION                 ACCOUNTING STAFF              SPECIAL DUTIES BY
OFFICER                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL MANAGER
CHIEF ACCOUNTANTS
OF GROUP
COMPANIES
(R)IBRD-3749  z|



TANZANIA: BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COMPANY LTD.
ORGANIZATION CHART
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION (NDC)
BOARD
GENERAL MANAGER*
NDC
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
COMPANY LTD. (NACO)
BOARD
NON- PROJECT RANCHES                                                                                     PROJECT RANCHES
|   MANAGER    l                        MANAGER         l                |       MANAGER         l|GMANAGER                                                       MANAGER
KONGWARANCHEFVRANCH                MKATA  RANCH                          W       ANAR                             KITENSLE RAN
(AARNCHPRJ                          RUANHEVPOJC RANCH                                                                                   E
MANAGER            MANAGER                                       MANA MGERS                                                                       MANA ,GER                                MAN. AGER
KONGWA              RONSAI                                   HOLDINGRGROUNDS                                                                 eREEDING/FATTENING                       BREEDING/FATTENING
PIG UNIT  DAIRY FARM                         ~~~~HOLDING GROUNDS                                                                    RANCH                                    RANC
*  eneraI Manager of Ntiional DeOelopment Corporation is Chairman of Boord of Nationol Agricultural Company Ltd..                                                          (                                                                 z
J  X
-June 1968                                                                                                                                                        (3R)IBRD-375~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1-4



NlES 2
Table 1
T A N Z A N I A
- 3.EF RANCHING DEVELOPM-IT PSOJ ACT
EITEN3SLE BH6SDIOG/FATTENING RANCH - 100,000 ACHES
(16,600 Animal Units)
Before                                                    P R O J E C     T E A R S
I T S M                             Development       1            2           3            4           5            6           7           o            9         10-16
H-.l) COICSITIC/J (No.)
Breedirg Cows                                4,000       1,000        6,090       6,858        6,000       6,000        6,000       6,000       6,COO        6,000       6,000
Breeding Bulls                                 133          133         203         230          200         200          200         200          200         200         200
reaoers                                      2,400        2,400       3,958       4,800        4,500       4,5oo        4,500       4,500       4,500        4,500       4,500
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                           1,200       1,200        1,200       1,979        2,400       2,250        2,250       2,250       2,250        2,250       2,250
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                           1,128       3,128        2,128       1,140        1,880       2,304        2,160       2,161        2,160       2,160       2,160
Stuers  (1-2 Yrs.)                           1,200       1,200        1,200       1,979        2,400       2,250        2,250       2,250        2,2-0       2,233       2,250
Steers  (2-3 Yrs.)                           1,128       1,128        1,128       1,140        1,880       2,304        2,160       2,160        2,166 2,160             2,160
Steers  (3.4 Yrs.)                           1,060       1,060        1,060       1,072        1,083       1,805        2,212       2,071       2,074        2,071       2,074
Furchased Steers                                 -        3,000       2,000       1,000            -           -            -           -            -           _            _
TOTAL                                       12,249      17,249       18,967      20,198       20,343      21,613       21,732      21,594      21,594       21,598      21,594
ANIMAL UNITS                                 9,319      13,319       13,979      14,862       15,302      16,211       16,126      16,057      16,057       16,057      16,057
DEATHS (No.)
Cows                                           240          240         304         343          240         248          240         240         240          240         2640
Bulls                                            8            8          10          11            8           8            8           a            8           8           e
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                              72           72          60          99           96          90           90          90          90           90           90
Hoifers (2-3 Yrs.)                              68          128          o1           57          75          92           86          86           86          R6           86
Steers  (1-2 Yrs.)                              72           72          60          99           96          90           90          90           90                      90
Steers  (2-3 Yrs.)                              68           68          56          57           75          92           86          86           86          C6           86
Steers  (3-4 Yrs.)                              32           32          O6           27          22          36           44          41           41          L1           41
Purchased Steers                                 -          10         100           50           -           -            -           -            -           -            -
701SUL                                         560         800          697         743          612         648          684         641         641          (11         641
SALS' (No.)
Zull Co.s                                      564         564          868         974          868         866          866         864         664          864         864
lull Bulls                                      20          20           29          32           28          28           26          28          28          20           28
Cull Heifers                                   106         106          107         109          180         220          207         207         207          207         207
Surplus Heifers                                150            -           -         515          521         888          763         763         763          763         763
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                            1,026       1,028        1,038       1,045        1,061       1,769        2,168       2,033       2,033        2,033       2,033
Purchased and Fattened Steers                    -            -          20 21, 900              950           -            -           -            -           -            -
6OTAL                                        1,868        1,718       4,858       4,575        3,604       3,769       8,030        3,895       3,895        3,295       3,895
HISES (50% of Deaths)                          280         400          348         371          306         321          322         320          320         320         320
FUHCHAS31 (No.)
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                               -        2,000       1,000            -           -            -           -           -            -           -            -
Bulls                                           28           98          66          13           36          36           36          36           36          36          ,6
Purchased Steers                                 -        3,000       2,00C       1,000                                                 -            -           -
TOTAL                                           28        5,098       3,066       1,013           36          36           36          36           36          36          36
TECFIIZTAL COEFFICIENTS (%)
Mortality                                        6            6           5            5           4           4            4           4            4           4           4
Calves Wleaned                                  60           60          65          70           75          75           75          75           75          75          75
Cows and Hulls Culled                           15          15           15          15           15          15           15          15          15           15          15
Heifers Culled                                  10           10          10          10           10          10           10          10           10          10          10
5XTRACTION RAT3 (%)                             15          12           12          14           13          18          18           18          16           l8          18
SALS (Sh '000)
Cull Cows                                      248.2        248.2       381.9        428.6       380.2       380.2        380.2       380.2        380.2       380.2       380.2
Cull 3S11s                                      14.0         14.0        20.3         22.4        19.6        19.6         19.6        19.6         19.6        19.6        19.6
Cull Herfers                                    38.2         38.2        38.5         39.2        64.8         79.2        74.5        74.5         74.5        74.5         74.5
Surplus Heifers                                 75. e        -            -         257.5        260.5       444.0        381.5       381.5       381.5        381.5       381.5
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                              514.0        514.0       517.0       522.5        530.5       884.5       1084.0      1016.5      1016.5       1016.5      1016.5
Purchased Steers                                  -           -         902.4       6o8.o        3'84.0         -           -           -            -
Hides                                           11.2         16.0        13.9        14.9         12.2        13.0         12.9        12.8         12.8        17.8        12,8
TOTIL SALES (Sh '000)                          900.6        830.4      1874.0      1893.1       1571.8      1820.5       1952.7      1885.1      1885.1       1885.1      1865.1
LESS VALLE OF GATTL3 PURCUAS, FROBM INCOME (Sh '000)
EBulla                                          44.8          -           _          20.8         57.6        57.6         57.6        57.6        57.6         57.6        5 7.6
Heiftra                                                      -                        -            -           -           -            -           -           -            -
Feeder Steers                                    -           -          400.0       201.0          -           -            -           -           -            -           -
Subtotal                                     48.8         -          400.0       220.8         57.6        57.6         57.6        57,6        57.6         57.6       57.6
NET SALES (Sh '000)                            855.8       830.4       1474.0      1672.3       1514.2      1762.9      1895.1       1827.5      1827.5      1827.5       1827.5
OPERATING EXPENSES (Sh '000)                   560.0       654.o        744.0       780.0        868.o       868.o       868.o        868.o       868.o       868.o        868.o
BALANCE (Sh'OOO)                               295.8       176.4        730.0       892.3       646.2        894.9      1027.1        959.5       959.5        959.5       959.5



ANNX 2
Table 1 (Conti d)
T A N Z A N I A
i3EF RANCHiNG D3;R3LOPMNE-T PROJ 7.T
RANCH INVESTMNNT COSTS
KITENGULE - BREr.)ING/FATTENINJ OPERATKON
C A T E 0 O R I                                  Unit            uantity            Unit cost           Total      Cost
(Sh tO'00)         (Sh nI)   yThT2
RANCH INV0SS,TI'N-3
Physical Inputs
Roads                                        Mil3s               20                6.o               120.0  S16,800
ra-cYs                                       MilBs               25                2.0                50.0     7,000
Firebreaks                                   Milbs             215                  .2                L3.n    o,020
Fencing                                      Milas               50                2.5               125.o   i(,S00
wiater Supplies
3-mFaim.s                                     No.                25                4.0               100.0   10,o0o
Large Dams                                    No.                 1               O.40,0              10.0        5,600
Piping (P.V.C.)                              Miles              303              1l4.7               U1..0     I 6,7 0 l
Piping (Galvanized)                             _                 _                  _                 1.3       161
Piping  Fittings                                                  __                                   8.7     1,215
Installation of Pipins  /                       _0.0
Survey of Water Supply -
(Water Trouaghs                               No.                20                2,0                4D.0    -,S()
Reservoirs                                    No.                 5               13.2                66.0      '
Stora-e Tuik                                  No.                1                25.0                25.o
Punps, Sniiines                               No.                 2              13.0                26.0      3,°l*0
Spray Races and Yards                         No.                                 20.0               60.o       ,60
Buildings
Ranch Manager,s House                         No.                1                80.0               90.0    1l,200
Assistant Ranch ManaL,gr's 'louse             No.                                 30.0               3.0 o      ,  0 O
Labor Linss and Sanitation                    Nu.              115                1,2               138.0    1' 320
Office B4uipment                             l'o.                                                     L 0
Dffice and Storage Sheds                      .-).               2               10.0                20.0       ,00
Machinery
Veli-ghbridge (Small)                         No.                2               17.0                3L.0 oY 
deighbridge (Large)                           No.                1               30.0                30.0
generator                                     No.                1                7.0                 7,'        )I)
Tractor                                       No.                 I              2.0 (2L.0                     ,;09)
Vehicla (-waheel-drive)                       No.                                22.0                22.0      3, )oa
Grader                                        No.                                 2.2                 2.2        308
Plough                                        No.                2                2.2                 4.4        o16
Disc Tillar                                   No.                *.0                                  L0.        560
Post Hole Digger                              No.                1                2.6                 2.6        Jol4
Trail Motor Bike                              No.                3                3.0                 9.0      1,26u
Gyromower                                     No.                1                5.7                 5.7        798
Miscellaneous Tools                                                                                   8.,0     1,120
Mobil'. Pump and Engine                       No.                                 6.0                 6.0        6140
Ralio Transmitter and Receiver                No.                                12.0                12.0      1,60O
Land Survey                                                                                          10.0      1 1*00
Subtotal                                                                               1638.9   229,)Lt4
Livestock
Bulls                                         No.              163                1.6               260.0      I
Breeding lieifers                             ND.            3,000                 .2              600.o    n5, JOO
Steers                                        No.            3,000                 .2              600.0   20,000
Subtotal                                                                               IL6o.o   200,600
Contingencies  -                                                                                    301.1    142,1G1
T.OTAT                                                                                 300.  O        fLa '
1/  Financed out of Technical Services



ANNEX 2
Table 1 (Cont d)
T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KITENGULE RANCH - OPERATING EXPENSES
(Sh '000)
Y E A R S
I T E M                               1          2        3          4        5-16
Renti/                                     5          5         5         5           5
Ranch Management                          90        95         90       100        100
3/
Labort-/                                 172       196        208       230         230
Dipping-4                                 62         70        75        83          83
Veterinary Expenses-/                     74         84        90       100         100
Fuel and Machine Maintenance'             74        84         90       100        100
Maintenance                               47        54         56        64          64
8/
Headquarters-                             70        90         96       108        108
Subtotal                              594       678        710       790        790
Contingencies                             60         66        70        78          78
TOTAL                                 654       744       780        868        868
1/ Sh. 0.5 per acre (Tanzania Governrmat standard rental).
2/  Salaries, medical, gratuity plus travel expenses for ranch manager and
assistant manager.
3/ Six herdsmen S Sb 90 per month and three other labor units at an average of Sh 180
per month per thoUSand animal unita (a.u.).
4/  Sh 5 per a.u. per year.
5/ Minerals, vaccines and medicines.
6/  15 percent of capital cost.
7/  5 percent of capital cost for roads, firebreaks, fencing and buildings.
8/ Allocated proportionately to each ranch including internal tra el of Chief
Development Officer and Chief Veterinary Officer.



ANCECi 2
Ca,lo 2
T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
MEATA FAUTTENING RANCH 80.000 bCBES
1,000   imh      ital   00S A
Before                                  P r o j e c t    Y e a r s
I T 3  X                                          Developmmrt          1               2               3                 L              5 -16
HERD INVENTORY (NO.)
Breeding Cows                                              3,000           3,o00            1,500               -                 -
Breeding Bulls                                               100             100               50
Weaners                                                    1,800           1,800              900
Heifers (1-2 Irs)                                            900             QOO              L50
Heifers (2-3 Yrs)                                            8L6             8t6              123
Steers (1-2 Yrs)                                             900             sno              LSo                        -                 -
Steers (2-3 Yrs)                                             BL6             8L26             L23
Steers (3-L Yrs)                                             796             796              398
Purchased Steers                                           L,000           L,.o0o           8,000          12?000            12,000           12.000
TOTAL                                                     13,188          13,188           1?, 5sL         In,Goo            12,000           12,000
ANIMAL UNITS                                              11,338          11,388          1l,694           12,000            12,000           12,000
DEATHS (No.)
Co-'s                                                        180-            10               90               -                 -                -
Bulls                                                          6                6               3                -                -                 -
Heifers (1-2 Irs)                                             54              52               27                                 -                -
Heife-s (2-3 Irs)                                             50'              50              25               -                 -                -
Steers (1-2 Yrs)                                              54              52               27               -                 -                -
Steere (2-3 Irs)                                              50              50               25               -                 -                -
Steere (314 Irs)                                              21..             2L              12               -                 -                -
Purchased Steers                                             24.0            240              L80             609               L.80             t80
TOTAL    RHs                                                 658             658              689             600              L80               t80
SALES (No.)
Cull CoGs                                                    422. L22                        211               -                 -                -
Cull Bulls                                                    1L1             14                7               -                 -                -
Cull .4eifers                                                 80.             80               Lo               -                 -                -
Surplus Heifers                                              111,            11L               57               -                 -                -
Ranch Bred Steers                                            772             772              386-
Purchased Steers                                               -           3,760            3,760           7,520           11,409            11,520
TOTAL SALES                                                1,402           5,162            L,L61           7,520           11,Loo            11,520
HIDES (50% of Deaths)                                        329             329              3L5             300               240              2Lo
PURCHASES (No.)
Bulls                                                         20              20               10               -                 -                -
Fattening Steers                                           L,ooo           L,000            8,o0o          12,000           12,000            12,000
TOTAL PURCHASES                                            L,020           1,020            8,010          12,000            12,000           12,000
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS (%)
Mortality                                                      6                6               6               5                 2                L
Calves Weaned                                                 60              60               60               -
Cows and Bulls Culled                                         15              15               15               -
Heifers Culled                                                10              10               10               -
SALES (,h 'p0)
Cull Cows                                                    185.6           135.6             92.8             -
Cull Bulls                                                     9.8              9.8             L.9             -
Cull Heifers                                                  28.8            28.8             14.L             -
Surplus Faifers                                               57.0            57.0             23.5             -
Ranch Bred Steers                                            386.o           396.0            193.0             -
Purchased Steers                                                 -          1203.2           1203.2         24.06.4          36.8.o            3686.t
Hides                                                         13.2            13.2             13.8           12.0               u.6              9.6
TOTAL SALES                                                  680.4          1883.6          1550.6          2118.2            3657.6           3696.0
LESS VALUE OF CATTL3 PURCHASED FROM INCO-M  (Sh '001)
Bulls                                                         32.0             32.0           Soso          1610.0                _                 _
Steers                                                        90,.0          300.0               -                            2Lo.0.           2t1o,0r
NET SALES (Sh 'ooo)                                         (151.6)         1051.6            734.6          818.1           1257.6            1296.0
LESS OPERATING EXPENSES (Sh ,00()                            660o.            700.0           758.0          806.0             796.0            796.0
BALANCE (Sh '000)                                           (811.6)          351.6            (23.2)          12.1             461.6            500,0
VALU3 OF BR3EDING HERD TRANSFERRED
TO RREEDING/FATTENING RANCHES (Sh '000)                     -               -            1065.7         1065.7                 -
NET BALANCE (Sh 1000)                                       (811.6)          351.6           1022.3         1053.3             461.6            590.0



ANNEX 2
Table 2 (Contld)
T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MKATA RANCH - OPERATING EXPENSES
(Sh 70-00-T
Y e a r s
Item                                1            2            3           4 - 16
Rent'-                                   4            4            4             4
Ranch Management?/                      90           95          100           100
Labors/                               162           162          168           168
Headquarters CostW                      74           74           74            74
Dipping~/                               60           60            60           60
Veterinary ExpensesA/                   86           86            86           86
Prophylactic Drugs7/                    40           40           40            30
Fuel and Machine Maintenarm e          100          120          136           136
Maintenance-/                           22           48            66           66
Subtotal                           638           689          734           724
Contingencies                           62           69           72            72
TOTAL                               700          758          806           796
1/ ShO.5 per acre (Tanzania Governrmnt standard rental).
2/  Salaries, medical, gratuity plus travel expenses for ranch manager and
assistant manager.
3/ Headmen, plus six herdsmen,, Sh 90 per month and three other labor units @ an
average of Sh 180 per month, per thousand animal units (a.u.).
i  Allocated proportionately to each ranch including internal air travel of Chief
Development Officer and Chief Veterinary Officer.
5/ Sh 5 per a.u.
6/ Minerals, vaccines and medicines.
7/ For protection against trypanosomiasis, a disease transmitted by tsetse flies
and for maintenance of protective barriers.
8/ 15 percent of capital cost plus fuel.
2/ 5 percent of cost for roads, firebreaks, fencing and buildings.



ANNEX 2
T A N Z A N I A             Table 2  (Conttd)
BEM' RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANCH INVESTMENT COSTS
MKATA RANCH - FATTENING ENTERPRISE
(ShtOOO)
Unit     Quantity   Unit
C A T E G O R Y                                             Cost       Total      Cost
(Sh'OOO)  (ShlOOO)    (US$)
RANCH INVESTMENTS
Physical Inputs
Roads
Black Soils                           Mile          7       18.0        126.0  17,6h0
Red Soils                            Mile         20         2.0         40.0   5,600
Bridge                                 No.         1        lO.o         10.0   1,400
Firebreaks                            Mile       100         0.2         20.0   2,800
Fencing                               Mile        80         2.3        184.0 25,760
W'ater Supplies
Boreholes                              No.         3        60.0        180.0  25,200
Dams                                   No.         1        20.0         20.0   2,800
Water Troughs                          No.          5        2.0         10.0   1,h00
Storage Tanks                          No.         2         5.0         10.0   1,L400
Mobile Water Pump and Engine           No.          3        6.o         18.0   2,520
Spray Races and Yards                  No.          2       20.0        40.0   5,600
Ranch Manager's House                  No.         1        80.0         80.0  11 200
Labor Lines and Sanitation             No.        85         1.2        102.O  1h,280
Office and Store                       No.         2        10.0         20.0   2,800
Land Survey                                                              4o.0   5,600
Machinery
Tractor                                No.         1        24.0         24.o   3,360
Disc Tiller                            No.         1         4.0          4.0     560
Trail Motor Bike                       No.         2         3.0          6.0     84o
Subtotal                                                         934.o 130,760
Livestock
Steers                                 No.     8,000          .2       1600.0 224,000
Subtotal                                                        1600.0 224,000
Contingencies                                                           246.0 34.440
TOTAL                                                           2780.0 389.200



ANNEX 2
T A N Z A N I A                                                          Table 3
BEEF RANCHIN3 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WEOT KILIMANJARO BRE3DIN3/FATTFNING R. NCR
Mlixed Cattle and Sheep 82,000 Acres
(7,300 Animal Units)
Before                                                    Y E A R S
7I T 3 M                             Development          1              2              3              4              5              6               7              8-16
I.   HE3D COMPOSITI3N (No,)
Breeding Cows                                 2,000          2,000          2,075          2,160           2,200          2,200          2,200           2,200           2,200
Breeding Bulls                                   70             70             75              75             75             75             75              75              75
Weaners (1 Year)                              1,200          1,200          1,350          1,512           1,650          1,650          1,650           1,650           1,650
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                              600            600            600             675            756            825            825             825             825
Heifere (2-3 Yrs.)                              564            564             564            570            641            726            792             792             792
Steers  (1-2 Yrs.)                              600            600            600            675             756            825            825             825             625
Steers  (2-3 Yrs.)                              564          1,864            5614           570             641            726            792             792              792
Steers  (3-4 Yr-.)                              530            530          1,790             536            5h1            615            697             760             760
TOTAL                                         6,128          7,426          7,618          6,773          7,260           7,642          7,356           7,919           7,919
ANIMAL ONITS                                  4,928          6,228          6,268          5,261          5,610          5,992           6,206           6,269           6,269
DEATHS (No.)
Co.s                                            120            120            10i            108              d8             88             66              88              06
Bulls                                            44                                             4              3              3              3               3               3
Haifers (1-2 Yrs.)                               36             36             30             34              30             33             33              33              33
Heifers (2-3 Yrs.)                               34             34             28              29             26             29             32              32              32
Steers  (1-2 Yrs.)                               36             36             30              34             30             33             33              33              33
Steers  (2-3 Yrs.)                               34             75              28             29             26             29             32              32              32
3teers  (3-4 Yrs.)                               32             32             90              27             22             25             28              30              30
TOTAL                                           296            336            3114            265            225            240            249             251             251
SALES (No.)
Cusl  Cows                                      282            282            296            308             317            317            317             317             317
,.II Bulls                                       10             11             11              11             11             11             11              11              11
Cull Heifers                                     53             53             51              54             62             70             76              76              76
Surpl-s Heifers                                  75              -               -            31             1568           222            279             279             279
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                                498           498          1,700             509            519            590            669             730             730
TOTAL                                           915            844          2,058             913         1,057          1,210           1,352           1,413           1,413
HIDE5  (50% of Deaths)                          148            168            157             132            112            120            124             125             125
PURCHA3ES (No.)
Steers (2-3 Yr-.)                                 -          1,300               -              -              -              -              -               -               -
Breeding Rulls                                   114            20             15              15             IL             14             14              lb              114
TOTAL                                            14          1,320             15              15             14             14             14              14              14
TSCHNICAL COEFFICI3NT- (9)
Msrtality                                          6              6              5              5              4              4              4               s               L
Calves Weaned                                    60             60              65             70             75             75             75              75              75
Coos and Bulls Culled                            15             15             15              15             15             15             15              15              15
Heifers Culled                                   12             10             10              10             10             10             10              10              10
EXTRACTIoN_RATS (8)                              14             11             13              13             I5             15             17              17              17
SLSSE (¢h 1000)
Cull Cows                                      .112.8          112.8           118.4          123.2          126.8                         126.8           126.8           126.8
Coil Bulls                                         7.7            7.0            7.7            7.7            7.7            7.7            7*7             7*7             7.7
Cull Heifers                                     19.1            19.1           18.2           19.5           22.3           25.2           27.4            27.h            27.1
Sorplus Heifers                                  37.5               -              -           15.5           7L.0          110.0          139.5           139.5           139.5
Home Bred Steers                                249.0           249.0         251.5           254.5          259.5          29¢.0          334.5           365.0           365.3
Purchased Steers                                   - -              -          383.0              -              -              -                              -                -
Hides                                             5.9             6.7           6.3             5.3            4.5            4.8            5.0             5.0             5.o
Cattle Sales                                    h32.0          3956           785.1          425.6          h94.8          569.5          650.9            671.4           671.6
Sheep Sales                                      79,2           79.2           81.6            90.3          97.9          105.5           105.5           105.5           105.5
TOTAL SALE3 (Sh '000)                           511.2          573.8          366.7          515.9          592.7          675.0           756.4           776,9           776.9
LESS VALTE OF CATTLS PfRC',ASED FRCM INCOMS (Shs '007)
BsUla                                         22.4              -           24.0           24.0           22.4           22.4           22.4             22.5            22.5
Purchased Steers  '                                             -              -              -              -              -              -               -           '
NET SALES                                       488.9          473.8          542.7          491.9          570.3          652.6           724.0           754.5           754.5
OPERATING EXPENSES /Sh i003)                    359.7          366.2          391.0          502.8          402.8          402.8          402.8           402.8           402.8
B515NCE (lh '000)                              139.1          107.6           448.7           89.1          167.5          249.8          321.2           351.7           351.7



Annex
Table  .
T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHIND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANEST KILIMANJARO - RREEDIN3/FATT3IN2 G RANCH - MIXEDL CATTL3 AND ShEEP
82,000 Aorae - 7,300 Ranch Livestock Units
T  T  3                                  Befo1                                                     Y;  A  R 3                                6_16
1.   FLOG!: Cl1I'MPOSIrION (No.)
Breeding 3wes                                   2,500                  2,500          2,500          2,500         2,50n          2,500             2,500
Bre,ding Raxes                                     90                      90             90            90             90             90                /9
_.i  Hoggets                                      750                     750           812            875            937           937               737
le.rhe '9ogg ts                                   720                    720            783           8L5            908            908               Q08
,,i 11' H  g ts                                    30                      30            30             30             30            30                30
2,, r n    .,682                                                          682           682            747            805           862               862
2;,X. 6JtlUrs                                     655                     655           655            720            777           835               835
TOTAL                                           5,627                   5,427         5,552          5,807         6,047          6,162             6,162
ANI4iA. IUNITS                                    905                     9°5           925            968         1,o08          1,127             1,127
L 6ArH1   (UN.)
Breed-l   :u'V                                    150                     150            125           125            125           125                125
Be-eding aen                                        5                       5              5             5              5              5                 5
Fwe Hogg-.ts                                       68                      68            65             70             75            75                75
Wet,her Hoggets                                    65                      65            63             68             73             73                73
Ra.9 Hogge s                                        3                       3             2              2              2             2                 2
2tn  .ues                                          L1                      42            34             37             40            43                L3
2t5,, ethers                                       39                      39            33             36             39            42                '2
TOrAT.                                            371                     372           327            3L3            359           365               365
36133z (.io.)
}'ull  _.. O70                                                           470            .75           675            L75            L75               L 7'
'.ull11  .. ;1.                                    22                      22                                         23                               23
:ursi, 2-h Ewes                                   21                      20             L8           110            165           219                213
;,et.n-rz                                         616                     616           622            684            738           793               79)
rOTAL                                           1,129                   1,128         1,168          1,292         1,601          1,510             1,510
r3M4N1 ,iL X3-FICTENTS  (7)
:Iorta,liy in Hoggets                               9                       9             8              8              8             8                 9
i,ortallt,y in 2th and Adult Stock                  6                       6             5              5              5             S                 S
H.,ge..  P--red                                    60                     60             65             70            75             75
--.-s .a,  'nIns cullu A                          20                      20             20            20             20            20                20
SArLAS  (St I Il')
lull  hles                                         2E,.2                   28.?          28.5           28.5          28.5           28.5              2B.5
Zull iRams                                                                    L .4         .4            .5            .5             .                 .S
Surplun 2th Ewes                                      3                     1.2           2.9            6.6            9.9          13.1              13.1
Wetners                                            69.3                    49.3          69.8           56.7           59.11         63.4              63.6
0,3AL       .700)                                   79.2                    79.1          81.6           90.3           97,91        105.5             105.5



ANNEX 2
Table 3 (Cont'd)
T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WEST KILIMANJARO - OPERATING EXPENSES
(Sh '000)
Y E A R S
I T E M                                1           2            3+ ..-16
Rent  /                                      4           4             
Ranch Management 2/                         43          44           8           48
Labor 3                                     92          95          96           96
Headquarters Cost                           50          50          50           50
Dipping 5                                   34          36          36           36
Veterinary Expenses -43                                 43          44           4
Fuel and Machine Maintenance 7/             57          66          68           68
Maintenance Y                               10          20          20           20
Subtotal                               333         358         366          366
Contingencies                                33         36          38           38
TOTAL                                  366         394         404          404
1/  ShO.5 per acre (Tanzania Government standard rental).
2 swt w4cog, gratuity plus travel -expenses for ranch manager and
3/  Six herdsmen @ Sh 90per month and three other labor units @ Sh 180 per
month, per thousand animal units (a.u.).
b/  Allocated proportionately including internal travel of Chief Develop-
ment Officer and Chief Veterinary Officer
5/  Sh 5 per a.u.
6/  Minerals, vaccines and medicines
7/  15 percent of capital costs plus fuel
8/  5 percent of capital costs for firebreaks, fencing and buildings.



ANNEX 2
T A N Z A N I A                     Table~M     (Cont'd)
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RANCH INVESTMENT COSTS
WEST KILIMANJARO RANCH - BREEDING/FATTENING
Mixed Cattle and Sheep
Unit     Quantity     Unit Cost      Total      Cost
(Sh '000)   (Sh  o000)   (US$)
RANCH INVESTMENTS
Physical Inputs
Firebreaks                 Mile         90            .2          18.0      2,520
Fencing                    Nile         45           2.5         112.5    15,750
Spray Dip and Yards        No.           1          20.0          20.0      2,800
Water Supplies
Boreholes                  No.           1          60.0          60.0      8.4oo
Storage Tank               No.           1           5.0           5.0        700
Water Trough               No.           4           2.0           8.0      1,120
Pump and Engine            No.           1          16.0          16.0      2,1240
Machinery
Weighbridge                No.           1          17.0          17.0      2,380
Gyromower                  No.           1           5.7           5.7        798
Post-Hole Digger           No.           1           2.6           2.6        364
Generator                  No.           1            7.0         '7. 0       980
Trail Motor Bike           No.           1           3.0           3.0    _ 20
Subtotal                                                     27h.8    38,h72
Livestock
Bulls                      No.          20            1.6         32.0      4,48o
Steers                     No.       1,300             .2        260.0    36,4o00
Subtotal                                                     292.0    4o,88o
Contingencies                                                     53.2      7,448
TOTAL                                                        620.0   86,800



T        A N Z A N I A                                                      AN:;X 2
Table4
BEEF RANCHIN2 DESE LOPM.NT PROJFCT
3RSi.DIN/7FATT331IN2 2RAIJH - 80,000 ACRES
(12,000 Ani-a Units)
I T  ~A                                                                                                             TER                    I1_________h__ 9         _1C 11  12 - _ _>
S    COMMPOIfICN (No.)
3reedin- C.,o                                     1,500       2,721       3,509       3,201      3,33S       3,744       4,051      .,3h.1      0,400       4,400      o,400       4,4ZO
3reedin- Bulls                                       50           90        117         107        111         120         134        1hl4        150         153        15C         150
Oeansers                                           900        1,768       2,456      2,0C0       2,503       2,808      3,038       3,25B       3,300      3,30C       3,300       3,300
ele-rs '1-2 Yes.)                                   450         450         884       1,22B      1,200       1,251       1,000      1,519       1,629       1,50       1,652       1,650
Herlsrs (2-3 irs.)                                1,623       1,423         428         80C      1,175       1,152       1,201      ',348       1 h59       1, 56.     1,584       1,580
steers  (1-2 Yrs.)                                  450         h5o         884       1,228      1,200       1,252       1,40h      1,519       1,569       1,650      1,650       1,650
Steers   2-3 Yrs.)                                  423         423         a20         800      1,179       1,152       1,201      1,305       1,569       1,56L      1,56.       1,584
Sters  (3-4 Yrs.)                                  398          398         .02         007        806       1,132       1,106      1,153       1,294      1,.01       i 5o2       1,52i
'urohosed OloStsers                              .o,          1,000       4,000      4,000       3,000       2,000      2,k'00      1,203           -           -
TO'11                                             9,794      11,723      13,108      10,251     14,516      140615     15,539      15,633      15,320     15,679      1 ,820      15,039
o'IoI, ooIIITS                                   8,095        9,256      13,451     11,6118     11,610      11,241     11,948       11,800     11,373     11,679      11,7S9      11,779
001T7S (No.)
Coos                                                 90         136         175         128        133         150         162        174         176         176        176         176
du11                                                 3           o           0           4          4           5                      6           6           6          6           S
Heifers (1-2 Yrs.)                                   27          22          44          49         h           ,0          56         60          65          66         66          66
Hifers (2-3 Yrs.)                                    S1           .1         21          34         h           h6          b0          54         58          62         63          93
St-ers  (1-2 Y-s.)                                   27          22          L,4         49         4d          31 56                  60          65          65         66          66
St-.rs  (2-3 Yrs.)                                   25          21          21          34          07 426                 L8         54          So          62         63
Stmers  (3-4 Yrs.)                                   12          13          10           8         16          23          22         23          26          28         Jo          '
Purchased St-ers                                    212         200         200         1 0                     5           50         40           -           -
TOTAL                                               885         087         521        J 5          63         IJ1        L77         h71         .2.        l166        10          h70
21100 (Is..)
Cull Coos                                          211          388         530         161        "s0         539         583        625         634         630        63h         632
Cull 3-ls                                             7          13          17          15         15          1S          19         21          21          21         21          21
Coi1 HSeiers                                         40          40          40          80        113         112         115        129        100          180        152         152
S-1-31s Nelfees                                       -            -          -           -          -           -                    202         4S51        5h2        559         559
H,-h Brsd Steers                                    386         385         392        399         790       1,129      1, 280      1,130       1,200      1,373       1,072       1,l91
.rrchased Sto,rs                                      -       3,76T       3, 500      380B    _  3,840      _8B        _ 1,92,      1,5920_       260  _ _  _        ___
TOTAL                                              644        4,589       4,7h9      L,755       5,239       4,656      3,721       4,135       3,474      2,720       2,535       2,887
HIDES (506 of Deaths)                               242         243         260         233        231         225        238         235         227         233        2J5         235
P13ZHASZS (Ns.)
HSlfe                                             1,200       1,000           -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -
llers                                                 50         45          13          23         33          33          34         33          27          27         27          <7
F-,.son- Sters                                    4, 000       4,000       _002      ,,000       3,000       ,2000      2,000       1,000           -          -           -           -
D T'6,                                            5,250       5,045       4,013      4,023       3,033       2,033      2,034       1,033          27         27          27          27
T3CHNIZ1A CC03'?FCIENT (8)
MHr-ality                                              6          5           5           o                                 4           4           *          4           4           4
Talves  eaned                                        60          65          70         75          75         75          75          75         75          75          7'         75
Cows aod 3S1  CTolled                                15          15          15         15          15          15         15          15         05          15          1S         1
Sellers Coiled                                       10          10                     10          10         10          10          10         10          10          10         10
?XTRAZTO0N RATS (57                                  13          12         10           9          12         10          13          15         16          17          18         11'
Cull  so's                                           92.8       170.7       220.0       202.8      211.2       237.2       256.5      275.0       279.0       279.0      279.0       279.0
Cull 3ulls                                            4.9          9.1       11.9        10.5       11.2        12.6        13.3       14.7        1L.7        14.7       14.7        1L.7
Cull Heiers                                          14.4        14.0        1.40        28.8       00.7        39.6         1.4      46.0        50.4        50.0       50.7        54.7
S-rplss Heifer                                                                -                      , r                              1559o       225.5       271.0      279.5       272.5
Steers (3-4 Yrs.)                                  293.0        190.0       196.0      199.5       395.0       ssL.5      542.0       565.o       634.0      6856,5      736.0       7N5.5
Purchased Steer,                                      -        1203.2      1216,0     1216.0      1228.8       921,6      61h.4       614,4       307.2         -          -           -
Hides                                                 9.7          97        10.0         9.3         9.3        9.0         9.5        9.0         9.1         9.3        9.4         9.4
TOTAL SALES (Sh '000)                               314.8      1601.1      1668.7      1666.9     1996.2      1770.5     1477.1      1679.9      1519.9     1314.5      1373.3      1382.8
LESS VALUE OF CATTLE PU9CHASED -gOM JNOM  Sh  000)
Hefers
Bulls                                                             72.0       20.8        36.8       52.8        52.8        54.4        52.8       03.2        43.2       03.2        03.2
Fattening Steers                                      -          800.0                  800.0      600.o       400.0       00.0       270 -B
N3T SALES(Sh '000)                                  314.8       729.1       847.9       830.1     1243,4      1321.7     1022.7      1427.1      1076.7     1271.3      1333.1      1339.6
LESS OPERATING EXYENSES (Sh 1000)                   5o6.o       640.0       776.0       776.0       776.0      776.0       776.0       776.0      776.0       776.0       776.7      776.o
BALANCE (Sh  200)                                  (191.2)        89.1       71.9        54.1      a67.4       545.7       246.7      651.1       709.7       095.3      550.1       563.6
LESS VAL0E OF BREEDING HERD TRANSFERRED
FROM ICATA (Sh '000)                          1065.7         -           -           -                                                                                  _  _ 
NET BALANCE (Sh '000)                             (1256.9)       89.1       71.9         54.1      467.4       505.7       246.7      651.2       700. 7     095.3       550.1       563.6



T A N Z AN I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BREEDING/FATTENING RANCH
OPERATING EXPENSES
(Sh '000)
y E A R S__
I T E M                                       1              2               3                              5            6              7              9            9 _16
Rent-/                                              4               4             4              4               h                             4,             L              L
Ranch Management-                                  91             95            100            100             100            100           lO(,            100           100
Labor-                                            lOu            120            160            160            160             160            16c            160           16o
Headquarters Cost4                                 LO             60              74             74             74             74             71             774
Dioping5/                                          4o             50             600 o                         60              60             6(             6o            60
6/
Veterinary Expenses-                                57            66             83              83             83             83             83             83            83
Prophylactic Drugs7                                30             40             5°             50              50             5°             SC             5o            50
Fuel and Machinery Maintenance-                    90            108            112            112             112            112            112            112           11 9
Maintenance9/                                        L            40             62              62             62             62             62             62            62
Subtotal                                       460            583            705            715            705            705             705            705           705
Contingencies                                      146            57              71             71            _1              71             71             71             71
TOTAL                                           506            640            776            776            776            776             776_           776           776
1/  Sh 0.5 per acre (Tansania Government standard rental).
2/  Salaries, medical, gratuity plus travel expenses for a ranch manager and assistant  maager.
3/  Six herdsmen @ Sh 9Oper month and three other labor units @ an average of Sh 180 per month, per thousand animal units (a.u.).
4/ Allocated proportionately, including internal travel expenses of Chief Developmnt Officer and Chief Veterinary Officer.
5/  Sh 5 per a.u.
6/ Minerals, vaccines and medicines.
7/  For protection against trypanosomiasis, a disease transmitted by tsetse flies and for maintenance of protective barriers.                                                        J
0
0
8/  15 uercent of cost plus fuel.                                                                                                                                                   C-
9/ 5 percent of cost for roads, tracks, firebreaks, fences and buildings.



ANNEX 2
WTabe h (Cont'd)
T A N Z AXN I A
BEV RANCHING DEVELOP4MT PROJECT
RANCH INVESTMENT COSTS
BREEDING/FATTENING RANCH
Unit
RANCH INVESTMENTS                           Unit     Quantity    Cost           Total Cost
(ShOOO)   (Sh'OOO)      US$
Physical Inputs
Roads (on ranch)                         Miles        15        6.0        90.0       12,600
Tracks                                   Miles        20        2.0       40.O         5,600
Firebreaks                              Miles        160        0.2        32.0        4,480
Fencing                                  Miles        50        2.5      125.0        17,500
Water Supplies
Boreholes                                 No.           3      60.0      180.0        25,200
Dams                                      No            2      20.0        40.0        5,600
Troughs                                   No          15        2.0        30.0       4IP200
Storage Tanks                             No           3        5.0       15.0         2,100
Pumps and Engines                         No           2        6.0       12.0         1,680
Piping                                  Miles         21       14.0      294.0        41,160
Spray Race and Yard                       No                   20.0        80.0       11,200
Buildings
Ranch Manager's House                     No           1       80.0        80.0       11,200
Assistant Ranch Manager's House           No           1       30.0        30.0        4,200
Labour Lines and Sanitation               No          80        1.2        96.0       13,44o
Office and Store                          No           1       10.0        10.0        1,400
Machinery
Tractor                                   No            2      24.0        48.o        6,720
Vehicle (4 Wheel-drive)                   No            1      22.0        22.0        3,080
Trailers                                  No           2        5.5        11.0        1,5bO
Plough                                    No           1        2.2         2.2          308
Disc Tiller                               No           1        4.0         4.o          560
Post Hole Digger                          No           1        2.6         2.6          364
Gyromover                                 No           1        5.7         5.7          798
Weightbridge                              No           1       30.0        30.0        L,200
Generator                                 No           1        7.0         7.0          980
Grader                                    No           1        2.2         2.2          308
Trail Motor Bike                          No            2       3.0         6.o          840
Miscellaneous Tools                                                         6.o 800
Land Survey                                                                20.0        2,800
Subtotal                                                          1,320.7       18h,898
Livestock
Bulls                                     No          95        1.6       152.0       21,280
Heifers                                   No       2,200        0.2       440.0       61,600
Steers                                    No       4,000        0.2       800.0      112.000
Subtotal                                                          1,392.0       194,880
Contingencies                                                             287.3       4o,222
TOTAL                                                             3,000.0       420,000



T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHTNG DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJFCT INVESTMENTS
(Sh 'I/Y)
Breeding/         Breeding/                              Dollar
West           Fattening         Fattening         Total Cost          Equivalent       Foreigi Exchange Component
Investment Category                 Kitengule         Mkata           Kilimanjaro         Ranch              Ranch                                (US$)             US$               %
Physical Inputs
Roads and Firebreaks                 213.0            196.0              18.0             162.0             i62.0              751.0            105,IL,             73,600              70
Water Supplies                       738.o            238.0               89.0            571.0             571.o             2257.0            315,98)            189,590              60
Fencing                              125.0            184.o             112.5             125. ;            125.0              671.5             94,010             56,410              60
Spray Races and Yards                 60.0             40.0               20.0             80.0              80.0              280.0             39,200             19,600              50
Ranch Buildings                      272.0            202.0               -               216.0             216.0              906.0            126,840             31,710              25
Machinery and Tools                  170.9             34.o               35.3            146.7             146.7              533.6             74,700             74,700             100
Land Survey                           10.0             LO.o               -                29.0              20.0               90.0             12,600               -                 _
Subtotal                      1638.9             934.0             274.8            1320.7            1320.7             5L89.1            768,470            445,610              58
Livestock
Bulls                                260.0             -                  32.0            152.0             152.0              596.0             83,440             83,440             100
Heifers                              600.0             -                  -                                 4-o.0  440.o      1480.o            207,200               -                 -
Steers                               600.0           1600.0             260.0             800.0             800.0            L4060.o 
Subtotal                      1h6o.n            1600.,             292.)            1392.0            1392.0             6136.0            359 ,0MO            83,4.o              10
Total                         3096.9            2534.0             566.8            2712.7            2712.7           11625.1           1,527,510
Contingencies                           301.1            2L6.0               53.2            287.3             287.3             1174.9            .64,490               -                  -
Total Ranch Development                3400.0           2780.0             620.0            3000.0            30o0.0            12800.0          1,792,060            529,050              30
Technical Services                                                                                                               1280.0            179,200            125,440              70
Training Program                                                                                                                  487.s             69,180             25,200              37
Total Prtect Cost
1i567.0           2,039,380           679,690              33
DZ



T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASING OF PROPOSED FINANCING AND IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US$)
Y e a r s
C A T E G O R Y                                                                             T O T A L
1               2               3               4
IDA DISBURSEMENTS
Ranch Investment                    288.9           447.6           352.9            75.4      1,164.8
Technical Services                   34.5,           27.4            23.7            30.9        116.5
Training                             10.5           12.9             13.2             7.7         hh.3
Total (Raunded)                     333.9           487.9           389.8           114.0      1,325.6
NDC EQUITY SUBSCRIPTION             155.5           2fj0.9          190.1            *0.7        627.2
NACO CONTRIBUTION
Technical Services                   18.6            14.7            12.7            16.7         62.7
Training Program                      5.6             7.0             7.1             4.2         23.9
Total (Rounded)                      24.2,           21.7            19.8            20.9         86.6
CD X



ANNEX 3
Table 3
T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECTED PHASING OF RANCH INVESTMENT COSTS
(Sh 'oOO)
CATEGORY                                    ~~~~~~~ e  a  r  s                    OA
C A T E G O R Y                                             YearsT O T A L
1              2              3                4
RANCH INVESTMENT COSTS
Kitengule Ranch
Physical Inputs                             820.0          820.0          -               -             1640.0
Livestock                                   960.0          500.0          -               _            1460.0
Contingencies                               180.0          120.0          -               -              300.0
Mkata Ranch
Physical Inputs                             632.0          302.0          -               -              934.0
Livestock                                    -             800.0         800.0            -            1600.0
Contingencies                                66.0          100.0          80.0            -              246.0
West Kilimanjaro Ranch
Physical Inputs                             180.0           94.8          -               -              274.8
Livestock                                   292.0           -             -               -              292.0
Contingencies                                44.o0           9.2          -                               53 .2
Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Physical Inputs                              -             870.0          450.o           -             1320.0
Livestock                                    -            1120.0          272.0           -            1392.0
Contingencies                                -             180.0          108.0           -              288.0
Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Physical Inputs                              -              -             870.0          450.0         1320.0
Livestock                                    -              _            1120.0          272.0         1392.0
Contingencies                                -              -             180.0          108.0          288.0
Subtotal
Physical Inputs                            1632.0         2MO6.8         1320.0          450.0         5488.8
Livestock                                  1252.0         2420.0         2192.0          272.0         6136.0
Contingencies                               290.0          409.2         368.o           108.0         11?5.2_
Total (Sh '000)                               3174.0 o4916.0                3880.0          830. 0       12800.0
US$ Equivalent ('000)                       .444.4            688.2          543.2          16.2           1792.0



T A N Z A N I A
BEEF RANCHING DEViIIOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Co  oration - Cash Projection
Pr o je ct  Ye ar s
C A r E G O R Y                       1            2            3            4            5          6                                       9          10            11           12           Total
Cash Inflow
Loan for Ranch Development
(from Ministry of Finance)                 2,385        3,482        2,785           816       -           -            --                         -            -            -            -           9,468
Funds for NDC' s Equity
Contribution to NACO                        1,111        1,721        1,358          290        -           -            -            -            -            -            -             -           4,480
Repayment of Principal by NACO                 -            -            -             -          -          1,353        1,353        1,353        1,353        1,353        1,353         1,350        9,468
Interest (7%) from NACO                        -             167          411          606        663          615          520          426          331          236          142            47        4,164
TOTAL                                       3,496        5,370        4,554        1,712        663       1,968         1,873        1,779        1,684        1,589        1,495        1,397        27,580
Cash Outflow
Ranch Development Loans to NACG12             2,385        3,482        2,785          816        -           -            _      -                  -             -            -            -           9,468
NDC's Equity Contribution to NACO             1,111        1,721        1,358          290        -           -            -            -            _            _             _            _           4,480
Repayment of Principal to
Finance Ministry                             -            -            -            -           -           -            -            _            _            _               95           95          190
Payment of Interest to Ministry
of Finance (14%)                             -              95          234          345        379          379          379          379          379          379           375          371        3,694
Administrative Co§Vs2/                           14           14           14            7          7            7             7            7            4            4            4             4           93
Surplus (Deficit)-                              (14)          58          163          254        277        1,582        1,487        1,393        1,301        1,206         1,021          927        9,655
TOTAL                                       3,496        5,370        4,554        1,712        663        1,968        1,873        1,779        1,684        1,589         1,495        1,397       27,580
1/ Twelve-year loan at seven per cent per annum with a grace period of five years.
2/  Estimated values.
3/  To be reinvested by NDC in the agricultural sector through its subsidiary agricultural companies.
NOTE:  Totals may not add due to roundirg.                                                                                                                                                               iw



T A N Z A N I A
BSEF RANCHING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NACO - Cash Flow for Combined Project Ranches
(Sh '000)
P r o 3 e c t    Y e a r s
Before
C A T 3 G 0 R Y                    Development       1           2            3           4            5           6            7           8            9          10           11           12
Cash Inflow
Net Sales                                   1,192       2,356        3,356       4,016       4,920        5,416       6,014        6,444       6,22-        6,323        6,780       6,226        6,480
Loan (NDC)                                   -          2,385        3,482       2,785          816              -                  -            -           -            -           -            -
Equity Contribution (NDC)                    -          1,111        1,721       1,358         290                     -                        -            -            -           -
rotal                                       1,192       5,852        8,559       8,159       6,026        5,416       6,014        6.4U4       6,222        6,328       6,780        6,226        6,480
Cash Outflow
Investment of NDC Loan Funds                 -          2,385        3,482       2,785         816         -           --                                    -            -           -            -
Investment of NDC Equity Funds               -          1,111        1,721       1,358         2?0         -           -            -            -           -            -           -            -
Operating Ebcpenses                         1,570       1,720        2,402       3,136        3,482       3,618       3,618        3,618        3,618       3,618        3,618       3,618        3,618
Training Program & Technical Services        -            173          155         141         149         -           -            -            -           -            -
Interest Payment NDC Loan l/                 _           -            167          411         606          663         615          520          426         331          236         142           47
Amortization NDC Loan                        -           -            -           -           -            -          1,353        1,353        1,353       1,353        1,353       1,353        1,350
Subtotal                               1,570       5,389       7,927        7,831       5.343        4,281       5,586        5,491       5,397        5,302       5,207        5,113        5,015
Cash Balance                                   (376)        463          632         328          683       1,135          428         953          825       1,026        1,573       1,113        1,465
Total                                       1.192       5.852        8.559       8,159       6,026        5.416       6.014        6,444       6.222        6.328        6.780       6.226        6,480
Cumulative Cash Balance                        -            463        1,095       1,423        2,106       3,241       3,669        4,662        5,447       6,473        8,o46       9,159       10,624
Annual Herd Value                             7,543       8,368        9,541      10,457       11,560      12,592      13,308       13,950       14,474       14,962      15,410       15,687      15,831
1/ Seven per cent interest
NOTE: Totals may not add due to rounding



ANNEX 4
TANZANIA
Beef Ranching Development Project
Technical Services Budget
(sh t~000)                              USs
Expenditure Items                          1           2            3           4           Total       US$
Salaries
Chief Development Officer-             130         130          1LO          140            54O      75,600
(Ranching)
Veterinarian                            90           90         100          100            380      53,200
Consultant Services 2/                    60          60            -           -             120      16,8J0
Other Expenses
Chief Development Officer               30           _            _           30             60        8,400
(Ranching) - (International Travel)
Veterinarian (International Travel)    30            _            -           30             60        8,400
Contingencies                             40           20          20           40            120       16,800
Total                                 380         300          260          340          1,280    $179,200
1/  Internationally recruited, amount free of tax, includes provisions for housing, gratuity, and educational allowances.
2! Provision includes finance for consultant services to assist Chief Development Officer (Ranching) (1) in
preparing the financial and economic aspects of the twTo additional breeding/fattening ranch development plans; (2)
in developing plans for efficient livestock watering facilities and~ (3) evaluating the effectiveness of tsetse
clearance and control measures on Project ranches.



ANNEN 5
T A N Z A N I A
BMEF RANCHING DEVKLOPMENT PROJECT
NACO - Training Program - Phasing and Cost
Unit
Item                  Costper             Y e a r s
Annum      _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _    _
(Sh)      1            2          3         4          Total
Assistant Ranch Managers                                   M a n  -Y e a r s
Undergong e2-Year
Training :LI (No.)
Training Institute (Tanzania)   6,000         9           7          9           5         30
Kabete, Nairobi                 10,000         3          6           6          3          18
Total Training Years                          12         13          15          8          48
Managers Completing Course                     6          6           7          8         27
Annual Cost (Sh '000)                         84        102         114         60        360
Foreign Exchange Component (Sh '000)          30         60          60         30        180
Field Assistants UndqM ing
1-Year Training 1/ (No.)
NACO Training Center,
Kongwa Ranch                   3,000         7         10           7          5         29
Training Officer 3/             10,000         1          1           1          1          1
Total Cost (Sh '000)                          31         40          31         25
Total Annual TraininRg Cost (Sh '000)           115        142         145         85         487
US$  Equivalent                           16,100     19,880      20,300    11,900      68,18o
Foreign Exchange Component(Sh '000)           30         60          60         30        180
US$ Equivalent                             4,200      8,400      8,400       4,200     25,200
1/ Education: Higher School Certificate ('A' Level) or a good School Certificate ('0' Level)
with a credit in at least one Science subject.
Pre-college Training: At least 6 months practical work on NACO ranches to test toughness
and leadership qualities and to get general idea of animal husbandry.
College Training: 2 years Veterinary, Animal husbandry and Range Management.
2/ Minimum Educational Requirement: At least a good pass in Std. VIII, preferably School
Certificate ('0' Level - pass or failure).
Training: 3 months preliminary work, both theory and practical at NACO Training Centre,
Kongwa.
6 months field training on at least 3 NACO ranches.
3 months at NACO Training Centre - Elementary Veterinary, Animal Husbandry
and Range Management. Enphasis is on Field Application
3/ Training Officer - Sh 10,000 per annum - Equivalent Rank to Assistant Ranch Manager.



A7*T. 6
T A TJ Z A Y T A
i 3,  J' -:;kJTCHTTTkG TAVTq,0FWI.JT3 FI-6PJIKCI
Duti.es, iosponsibilities and Authorities of the
C,hief 'Developm nent C_ffic cjat
The Chief 7'evelopment Officer (!~anching), who shall be d.rect>
respon-sible to the .Iana.,er (NACO), will have the responsibility for implerlentt-
ation and execution of the 3eef Ranching Development Pn Ject and shall have
the following specific duties and powers:
a.  advising the Nanager on major policy decisnons in respect of the
Pro,ject;
b. executing the Project in accordance with policies and procedures
set forth in the Credit documents;
.c. recommending employment to the Manager (NACO) of local staff he
considers necessarv to carry out Project activities;
d.  advising the Manager on the duties and responsibilities of each
ranch manager and assistant manager and ranch staff;
e.  training ranch managers and assistant ranch managers in the
practical aspects of ranch development and management;
f.  reviewing and if necessary, modifying existing ranch development
plans and preparing ranch development plans for future TAIZ ranches
to be financed under the credit;
ge  providing such supervision and technical assistance as-necessary
to ensure successful completion of each ranch developrent plan
in accordance with the terms of the Credit documents;



A'r,- (
Fa?.-e  2
.  establlshing and maintaining records for D         r        :s
needed for ?rject evaluation;
i,  makin7 n--oroposals to the TI,ana!er of NACO witli-, rcesn,erIt Jo:
i.   the selection, promotion, demotion, sus*o is-C-I> or rernoval
of Project staff;
ii.  and, together with the Chief Accountant, for tile est-blish.-
ment of annual budgets for the needs o-L the .Ero,iect ranches;
j. preparing quarterly and annual proEgress reports for submission to
the Ifanager for t,ransmitfral to the Association; and
k.  advising the iHanager on the organization and. implementaMion of
consultant, studies for efficient development of livestock watering
facilities and on the effectiveness of tsetse clearance and control
measures for ProJect ranches.



TANZANIA
BPZ  RAiNCHING DEV=IOPN31T PROJECT
EOONOMIC AND FINACIAL RATES OF RETURN
(Sh ' 000)
EARS             1          2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10        1         12         13        14        15        16
Incremental Net Operaiting
Income After Taxes-           780        860     1,060     1,460      1,700     2,020     2,260     2,100     2,140     2,400     2,260     2,120     2,140      2,160     2,160     2,160
Ranch Investment              3,174       4,916     3,880       830       -         -         -         _         _         _         _         _          _         _         _         _
Technical Sermices              380         300       260      340        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -
Training Progran                115        142       1145        85                                                         -                                                            -
Increase in Herd Value          -           -        -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -       8,346
Net Cash Flow                 (2,889)    (4,498)  (3,601)      (171)    1,324     1,644     1,884     1,728     1,764     2,024     1,884      1,744     1,764     1,784     1,784    10,130
Finmcial Rate of Retarn - UL pw cent
Incremental Net Operating
Income                      1,020      1,332      1,260     1,814     2,180     2,772     3,200     2,980     3,080     3,540     3,380     3,300     3,32D      3,320     3,320     3,320
Ranch Investmeut              3,174       4,916     3,880       830            -         -         -         -         -         -          -         -              -         -          -
Technical Services              380         300       260       340       -
Training Program                115        142        145        85                                                         -                                                            -
Increase in Herd Value          -          -          -         -         -         -                                                           -                              -       8,346
Net Cash Flow                 (2,649)    (4,026)   (3,401)     183      1,804     2,396     2,82h     2,604     2,704     3,161     3,oo4      2,924     2,944     2,944     2,944    11,290
Economic Rate of Retairn - 18 pw cent
I/  Corporate tax in Tanzania is 40 pw cent.



ANNEX 7        ANNEX 7
T A N Z A N I A               Table           Table 2
BEEF RANCHING DEVEIOPMENT PRDJECT
ANNUAL INCREASED TURNOFF OF BEEF AWD BREMIMM  STOCK AT FULL
DEVELOPMENT FROM PROJECT RANCHES
Increased Output due to Project  _       Total Annual Output
Beef Out-                            Beef Ou
No. of    Surplus   put i/         No. of    Surplus      put 1
R a n c h e s               Head      Heifers  ('000 lbs)       Head     Heifers    ('ooo it
Kitengule
Surplus Heifers               613        613          -           763       763
Fat Steers                  1,005          -        402         2,033          -         813
Cull Cows                     300          -        105           864          -         302
Cull Bulls                       8         -          6            28          -          22
Cull Heifers                  101          -         35           207          -          72
Mkata              2/
Fattened Steers -            7,760         -      1,552        11,520          -       2,304
West Kilimanjaro 31
Surplus Heifers               204        204          -           279       279            _
Fat Steers                     232         -         93           730          -         292
Cull Cows                       35         -         12           317          -         110
Cull Bulls                       -         -          -            11          -            8
Cull Heifers                    23         -          8            76          -          27
Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Surplus Heifers               502        502          -           559       559            -
Fat Steers                  1,105          -        442         1,491          -         596
Cull Cows                     1423         -        148           634          -         221
Cull Bulls                      14         -         10            21          -          15
Cull Heifers                  112          -         39           152          -          53
Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Surplus Heifers               502        502          -           559       559            -
Fat Steers                  1,105          -        442        1,491          -          596
Cull Cows                      423         -        148           634         -          221
Cull Bulls                      14         -         10            21         -           15
Cull Heifers                  112          -         39           152         -           53
TOTAL                14,593     1,821      3,1491       22,542      2,160       5,720
TOTAL VALUE           5,100        910     h,l89         7,9U4      1,08n       6,86h
(Sh '000)
1/  Beef output is valued at Sh   1.20 per lb cold dressed weight.  Boran cull  lills
700 lbs cdw; Boran/Cross cull cows 350 lbs cdw and heifers; and Boran/Cross fat
steers 400 lbs cdw.
2/  Beef output is calculated on a net gain of 200 lbs liveweight (100 lbs cold dressed
weight) while on the Mkata Ranch.
3/  This ranch also produces mutton with an estimated turn-off of abou' 13JO)D sheen ou-
ally for slaughter, (equivalent to 64,500 lbs of mutton and lamb)and about 220
surplus breeding ewes.



, U G A N D A AN ANA 
lLJ 1// Al KIt n8ule *\, ~~~~~~~~~~~RANCH  LOCATIONS
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.   20  W                              20    40  D  A   j  Mles   12G  140  16    1  D80  Mil-s
B U RU N DI                                          j                                        -vfcX<e 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' S      {              X ,HA  
%    l   >  \ > -g)M~K.ikiZ
[ °        .          '      t                    '--          *  ,,         -17   ,         ''--' )~'A-.R
'>  4   '   - w   "  t       \\                    5                        X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
[  03   Are^;  iniderDSIutdr^ect  ranches  vq   i   - _ q 3 ,  NjO-be ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ L
-    Pegio   al   8Ounderies i 3 % t 4: ~~~~~~~~~~p-.<. 
-- -   Iternaional oundaies          l              /  )                                         N.chigWC. 
Zt   Check    PpXn;b  \      X        )    *^Songea~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~D.   ES     S TA EA 
*  Holding Sround  )   i  4  2           i                                g_             /           g02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.
ep  Vteriary ip Pciliies                            X                       ,_,r-M OZAMBIQUE
AUGU5T 96d                                                                                                                        IBR wb2-g



