RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                     Report No. P-69
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PR ESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 9, 1968



INIERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONI-IENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED DEVELOFIENTT CREDIT TO THE
UNJITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA FOR A LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommrendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $1.3 million
to the United Republic of Tanzania.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In -May 1967, the Government of Tanzania requested financial
assistance for the development of a beef ranching program. The applica-
tion wyas based on a report prepared for the Government's National Develop-
ment Corporation (NDC) by the staff of the Bank's Agricultural Development
Service (ADS). The proposed project was appraised in November/December
1967.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in July/August 1968.
The borrower was represented by Mr. I.M4. Kaduma, Director of External Aid,
Treasury, and Hr. S.T. Militi, laiwyer, Attorney General's Office. The
National Development Corporation was represented by Mlr. J.S. Skinner,
Assistant General IIanager and by Mr. F.A. Mbuya, Deputy Chief Accountant.
The National Agricultural Co. Ltd. was represented by Mr. L.M. Wheeler,
Senior Accountant and by Mr. M. Pease, Chief Development Officer (Ranching).
4.        This would be the first livestock development project proposed
for IDA financing in Tanzania and would be the fifth IDA credit to Tanzania,
increasing the total IDA financing in that country to US $27.9 million. A
Bank loan of $5.2 million was made to Tanzania Electric Supply Corpany,
I uited (TimTESCO) for power dcv6lopmnent.  The following is. a summary state-
ment of the Bank loan and IDA credits to Tanzania as of September 30, 1968:
Amount (US $ million)
No.        Year     Borrower       Purpose              Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
45-TA     1963      Tanzania      Education                   4.6        -
48-TA     196ht      Tanzania     Roads                      14.0       .9
80-TA     1966      Tanzania      Agricultural Credit         5.0      2.2
518-TA    1967      TANESCO       Power                 5.2            5.2
115-TA    1968      Tanzania     Supplementary Roads     _    3.0      3.0
Total (less cancellations)                    5.2  26.6
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                                   -
Total now outstanding
Amount sold:                       .1
of which has been repaid0         -          .1
Total now held by Bank and IDA    -v1 26._6
Total undisbursed                                           173



5.        In addition to the above loans and credits, the Bank has made three
loans for common se-vices in East Af-rica, two for railways and harbors and
one for telecommunications. All three loans are guaranteed jointly and
severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, with the United Kingdom also being
a guarantor for the first loan for railways and harbors. The following is a
summary statement of these loans as of September 30, 1968:
(Amount US $ million)
No.     Year   Borrower             Purpose                 Bank    Undisbursed
llO-EA  1955   East African Common Railways and harbors     24.0
Services Authority
(EACSA)*
428-EA  1965   East African Common Railways and harbors     38.0        11.3
Services Authority
(EACSA)*
483-Ea.  1967  East Africon Common  Telecommunications      13,,0        8.4
Services Authority
(E4hCSA) 8F'
Total (less cancellations)                          75.0
of which has been repaid to Bank and others       13.3
Total now outstanding                               61.7
Amount sold:                               23.8
of which has been repaid                 13.2     10.6
Total now held by Bank                              51.1
Total undisbursed                                               19.7
6.        IFC has made two investments in Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960
and 1964 amounting to $4.0 million in loans and $0.7 million in shares. As
of September 30, 1968 $0.3 million of the loan was undisbursed.
7.        A second education project and the Tanzania-Zambia Highway project
have been appraised and are under active consideration.
8.        Two new projects, one for harbors and the other for railway, are
under consideration for the East African Community.
'F   The East African Community has succeeded EACSA as Borrower.
**   The East African Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has succeeded
,ACSA as Borrower.



- 3 -
PART TI  - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
9.        Borrower:                 United Republic of Ta2nzania
Amount:                   Various currencies equivalent to $1.3
million.
Purpose:                 To help finance the development by the
National Agricultural Co. Ltd. of five
ranches, the provision of technical
services and the training of ranch
managers.
Amortization:             In 50 years including ten-year period,of
grace, through semi-annual installments of
1/2 of 1% from September 1, 1978 through
Nirch 15, 1983 and of 1-1/2% from Sept-
ember 1, 1988 through Harch 1, 2018.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1%.
Relending Terms:          The Government will relend $1.3 million
equivalent to the National Development
Corporation (]JDC) at 4'J for a term of
50 years including a ten-year period of
grace. NDC will relend the funds to the
National. Agricultural Company Ltd. (,TACO)
at 7Z f-or a term of 12 years including
a five-year period of grace.
Beneficiary:             Mational Agricultural Co. Ltd.
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:
PART III  -  THE PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report entitled "Beef Ranching Development Project -
Tanzania" (TO-656a dated October 8, 1968) is attached. The Project is part
of Tanzania's long-term beef cattle development program and provides for
financing the developmient of five large scale ranches. Three ranches are
established and twfo more are to be established. Kitengule Ranch, together
with its extension covers a total of approximately 100,000 acres, and West
Kilimanjaro and 1fkata Ranches are both 80,000 acres each. The two new
ranches would be of approximately 80,000 acres each. Before the two new
ranch sites are accepted by IDA a field review of each site will be made
by IDA personnel.  Under the lending program, finance would be made avail-
able for such invesGments as on-ranch roads, firebreaks, fencing, water
supplies, stock handling and animal health control facilities, ranch build-
ings, breeding stock and an initial procurement of feeder steers for



- 4 -
fattening. Funds would also be allocated for technical services and a
training program for ranch management.  Each ranch would be based on a ranch
development plan prepared by NA3CO and disbulsements would be made by IDA
upon certification by NDC and NACO of eligible expenditures made under the
project.
11.       The Project is estimated to cost $2.0 million of which $1.8 million
would be for ranch development and the balance of $0.2 million would be for
technical services and training. Approximately $0.7 million would represent
foreign exchange expenditures, but it is recommended that the credit cover a
further $0.6 million of local currency exnenditures in view of the country's
needs for external finance to cover its development program. On this basis
the proposed credit would cover about 65 percent of the total project cost.
12.       International competitive bidding would be followed for the purchase
of fencing wire and waterpipe. On other items, full advantage will be taken
of existing local competitive conditions. Livestock would not be subject to
internaticnal competitive bidding because the type of cattle required is
found mainly in Kenya.
13.       The economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 18%.
The principal direct benefits resulting from the project wotid be an increased
production of beef and heifers. At full development, 1,800 additional breeding
heifers valued at $125,000 would be sold annually from project ranches. The
increased annual output of beef is estimated at 1,600 tons, cold dressed
weight, valued at approximately $560,000.   Foreign exchange savirgs from the
reduction of import of breeding heifers and bulls from Kenya, together with
export earnings from the sale of canned beef producticn, would amount to about
$140,000 per year, net of annual foreign exchange outlays directly attributable
to the project. Additional benefit would be the demonstration of better manage-
ment practices, improved production and disease control techniques, as well as
practical training of ranch managers and field assistants.
PART IV - L-GAL INSTRUNBUTS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association, the National Developmnent Corporation and the National Agricul-
tural Company, Ltd. and the Report of the Committee provided for under
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Project
Agreement - a tripartite agreement - follow substantially the usual pattern
of other agreements used for livestock projects. The following provisions
in these agreements are of special interest:
(a) the Borrower will relend the proceeds of the Credit to the
National Development Corporation under a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to the Associaticn (Section 4.02(a),
Development Credit Agreement);



(b) the National Development Corporation will, in turn,
relend the proceeds of the subsidiary loan to the National
Agricultural Com-.any, Ltd. under a second subsidiary
loan agreement, also satisfactory to the Association
(Section 4.02(c), Development Credit Agreement);
(c) in addition to relending the proceeds of the subsidiary
loan to the National Agricultural Company, Ltd., the
National Development Corporation will make available to
the National Agricultural Company, Ltd., by way of subscrip-
tion to its capital stock, funds equivalent to 35 percent
of the total cost of ranch development under the Project
(Section 4.02(d), Development Credit Agreement);
(d) the National Development Corporation will use the proceeds
of the repayments of its loan to the National Agricultural
Company, Ltd., which are not currently required to service
the Government loan to the National Development Corporation
or to defray administrative exnenses, for the purpose of
financing further agricultural development through its
subsidiary companies (Section 4.03, Development Credit
Agreement);
(e) the National Agricultural Cornpany, Ltd. undertakes to
consult with the Association about the technical feasibility
and economic and financial viability of any proposed
investment projects in dairying (Section 3.03, Project
Agreement).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
16.       A report entitled "Prospects for Economic Development in Tan-
zania" (AF-58b) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 13,
1967 (R 67-148). An updating memorandum, "Recent Developments in the East
African Community, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda" (AF-74) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 4, 1968 (R 68-52).
17.       Since the above memorandum was written, statistics for the year
1967 relating to the key economic indicators have become available. In
1967, Tanzania's real gross domestic product increased by only 2 percent,
in marked contrast to the increase of 8.8 percent achieved during the
previous year. This decrease in the growth rate was the result of adverse
weather conditions in the 1966/67 crop season. The output of two major
crops - coffee and cotton - declined by 20 percent and 11 percent respec-
tively. Although the output of tea, pyrethrum and, notably, tobacco was
higher, this was inadequate to offset the decreases in coffee and cotton.
The manufacturing, construction, public utilities and transport sectors
remained buoyant, however, and enabled the economy to achieve a modest
growth, despite the decrease in overall agricultural production.
18.       Despite the setback to the growth of GDP, gross fixed capital
formaticn in 1967 reached the record figure of Sh. 1,070 million, represent-
ing a 25 percent increase over the 1966 figure. Capital formation as a



- 6 -
proportion of GDP in the monetary economy rose to 23 percent in 1967, as
compared with 19.5 percent in the previous year.   The increase in the
public sector substantially excee;1ed that in the private sector, mainly
in the categories of construction, machinery and equipment.
19.       After the steep rise in merchandise exports which occurred in
1966, there was a decline in 1967. The decrease in the value of exports
was the result of reduced volume in the case of cotton, coffee and sisal,
the last two commodities also suffering a price decline. W11hile imports
both of intermediate and capital goods increased, there was a big reduc-
tion in imports of consumer goods, and hence the value of import-s in 1967
was lower than in 1966.   Overall, the trade balance remained favorable,
but the surplus was considerably less than in the preceding year.
20.       Receipts in the services account showed a significant increase.
In large measure, this is a reflection of the rapidly developing transit
trade with Zambia, and higher earnings from tourism.   In regard to payments
for services, there was a marked decrease in international investment in-
corme payments consequent upon the extension, early in 1967, of public owner-
ship to a number of enterprises in the fields of banking, insurance and
manufacturing, which had previously been contributing to the outflows;
compensation payments to owners of these enterprises will, of course,
appear in the capital account. Complete details relating to the capital
account are not yet available. It may be noted, however, that the holdings
of external assets by the banking system showJed a slight increase at the
end of 1967, relative to the position at the sarae time in 1966.  This was
in spite of the devaluation of the pound sterling during the year which
caused a loss to Tanzania of Sh. 36 million and, possibly, some capital
flight which may have followed the extension of exchange control to tran-
sactions with Kenya and Uganda. At the end of May 1968, Tanzania's con-
vertible foreign assets amounted to Sh. 510 million ($73 million), equiva-
lent to about four months' imports.
21.       The management of Tanzania's public finances continues to be
satisfactory. The revised estimate of recurrent revenue in 1967/68 is
Sh. 948 million, which represents a 10 percent increase over the high
figure attained in 1966/67. Since 1963/6L4, recurrent revenue has been
increasing at an average annual rate of 13 percent, well in excess of the
Plan target. Although recurrent expenditures have also risen during this
time, the budgets have generally been in balance, even after taking into
account the contributions which have consistently been made to the develop-
ment budgets.
22.       Development expenditure in 1967/68 is estimated to have reached
about Sh. 300 million, and may be compared with the cumulative total of
Sh. 662 million for the three-year period 196h/67. It is now expected that
during the five-years of Tanzania's 1964/65-l968/69 Development Plan, actual
investment may amount to about 86 percent of planned investment. Allowing
for increases in costs during the period, the achievement in physical terms
would probably amount to between 60 and 70 percent of the Plan targets.



- 7 -
23.       It was assumed in the Development Plan that 78 percent of the
finance would be obtained from external sources.   In contrast, however,
a large proportion of the inves-tment has been financed from internal
sources. The very high share of internal sources - 61 percent of the
total as against the estimated 22 percent - is attributable to the empha-
sis on self-reliance and also to problems in utilising foreign aid, owing
to shortcomings in project preparation and iaplementation.   There is
evidence, however, that Tanzania's capacity for imnplementing projects has
undergone an irmprovement.
24.       Tanzania's total external public debt (including a one-third
share of the East African Cornmunity debt) amounted to $289.0 million on
December 31, 1967.  The servicing of this debt absorbed about .5 percent
of foreign exchange earnings from exports of goods and services in 1967.
This is a relatively modest debt service ratio, and would appear to indicate
that Tanzania could afford to borrow a larger proportion of its capital
requirements on conventional terms than in the past.   However, on grounds
of the country's poverty, the slow growrth of projected export earnings,
an improved capacity for aid utilization and hence the need for substantial
amounts of capital in the years to come, it wrould be desirable not to harden
unduly the terms of lending to Tanzania.
PART VI - COMPLIATNCE 1ITH ARTICLES OF AGREETIENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOTE-UNDATIOt
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTIONI NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the United Republic of Tanzania
in an amount equivalent to U.S. $1,300,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
United Republic of Tanzania in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million three hundred thousand United States
dollars ($1,300,000) to mature on and prior to March 1, 2015,
to bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms



- 8 -
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreerment (Beef Ranching Development Project) between the
United Republic of Tanzania and the Association and the
Project Agreement (Beef Ranching Development Project) between
the Association, the National Development Corporation and the
National Agricultural Company, Ltd., which have been presented
to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachrnent
October 9, 1968



