CREDIT NUMBER 132 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Beef Ranching Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 31, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 132 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Beef Ranching Development Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 31, 1968


﻿Elrorlopeut (1rehit Agrermut
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 1968, between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTFRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AsSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the National Development Corporation (herein-
after called NDC) has been established by the National
Development Corporation Act, 1962, of the Borrower for
the purpose of facilitating and promoting the economic
development of the Borrower, and for facilitating and
promoting the participation of other persons and bodies
in the said economic development;
WHEREAS the National Agricultural Company, Ltd. (here-
inafter called NACO) a subsidiary company of NDC duly
organized under the laws of the Borrower, has been estab-
lished for the purpose of promoting agricultural develop-
ment;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of a beef ranching development
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower will make available to NDC the
proceeds of the credit provided for herein pursuant to a
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and NDC;
WHEREAS NDC has in turn undertaken to relend the pro-
ceeds of the said credit to NACO for the purposes of
financing the said beef ranching development project, pur-
suant to a loan agreement to be entered into between
NDC and NACO; and


﻿4
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to make a credit to
the Borrower for the said project upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth herein and in a project agreement of even
date herewith between the Association, NDC and NACO;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regalations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended Febru-
ary 9, 1967, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said Development Credit Regula-
tions No. 1 as so modified being hereinafter called the
Regulations) :
(a) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
any party under the Project Agreement" after the
words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(b) The following sub-paragraph is added to Section
9.01: "13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have
the meaning set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement."
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement shall have the following meanings:
(a) The term "Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Association,
NDC and NACO, as the same may be amended or
supplemented from time to time by agreement be-
tween the Borrower, the Association, NDC and
NACO.


﻿5
(b) The term   "First Subsidiary Loan Agreement"
means the agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and NDC referred to in Section 4.02
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
or supplemented from time to time with the ap-
proval of the Association.
(c) The term "First Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided for in the First Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
(d) The term  "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement"
means the agreement to be entered into between
NDC and NACO, referred to in Section 4.02(c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended or
supplemented from time to time with the approval
of the Association.
(e) The term "Second Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided for in the Second Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-
opment credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one million three hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations and in accordance with the allocation


﻿6
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time
to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be
financed under this Development Credit Agreement the
equivalent of sixty-five per cent (65%) of such amounts
as shall have been paid by NACO for expenditures under
Category A and under Category B of said Schedule 1;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in
the estimate of such expenditures under either of such
Categories, the Association may by notice to the Borrower
adjust the above percentage in respect of the Category
showing the increase as required in order that withdrawals
of the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category
and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the expendi-
tures remaining to be made under such Category.
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of:
(i) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agree-
ment, and
(ii) expenditures on any ranch included in the Project,
unless satisfactory evidence shall have been fur-
nished to the Association of the grant by the Bor-
rower to NACO of appropriate rights of user in
respect of the whole parcel of land on which such
ranch is situated.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (% of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿7
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be paid semi-annu-
ally on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and
September 1 commencing September 1, 1978 and ending
March 1, 2018 each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on March 1, 1988 to be one-half of one per
cent (  of 17) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/%o) of
such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agree-
ment exclusively to expenditures on the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the fencing wire and water piping to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding as set forth in
the "Guidelines Relating to Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Associa-
tion in February 1968, and in accordance with such other
procedures supplemental thereto as shall be agreed between
the Association and the Borrower, and (ii) any contract
for the procurement of such goods shall be subject to the
approval of the Association.


﻿8
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the pro-eeds of the Credit to be used
in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in carrying
out the Project.
ARTICL3 IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound agricultural, administrative, eco-
nomic and financial practices and shall at all times make
available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall take all action which shall be
necessary on its part to enable NDC and NA CO to perform
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and shall not take any action that would interfere with
the performance of such obligations by NDC and NACO.
(c) The operating policies and procedures for the carry-
ing out of the Project shall be agreed from time to time
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.02. For the purposes of carrying out the
Project, the Borrower undertakes to make the following
financial arrangements:
(a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of this
Credit to NDC on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, pursuant to a loan agreement satisfactory
to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
First Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association,
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the


﻿9
Borrower shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving any provision of the First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall cause NDC to relend the pro-
ceeds of the First Subsidiary Loan to NACO on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, pursuant to a loan agreement satisfactory to the
Association.
(d) The Borrower shall cause NDC to make available
to NACO, by way of subscription to the capital stock of
NACO, funds equivalent to 35% of the total cost of carry-
ing out the ranch development referred to in Part A of
the Project.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall cause NDC to use the
proceeds of the payments received from NACO on account
of the Second Subsidiary Loan and which are not required
to service the First Subsidiary Loan and to defray admin-
istrative costs in respect of the Second Subsidiary Loan,
for the purpose of financing further agricultural develop-
ment through its subsidiary companies.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, the operations with respect to the Project of
NDC, NACO and the Ministries and other agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project; (ii)
.able the Association's representatives to inspect the Proj-
ect, the goods and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associa-
tion all such information as the Association shall reason-


﻿I
10
ably request concerning the expenditure of the Credit, the
Project, the goods, and the administration and operations
with respect to the Project of NDC, NACO and the Min-
istries and other agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project.
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall rez
sonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borro. r, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform  the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from &]C restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.07. This Development Credit Agreement aad
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes that


﻿11
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary
steps to ensure that NACO acquires indefeasible title to
the parcels of land on which the ranebes included in the
Project are situated.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations or in Section 5.02 of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower, then at
ay subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the
Association, at its option, may declare the principal of
the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable imme-
diately, and upon such declaration such principal shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in the
Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
SECTION 5.02. The following are specified as additional
events for the purposes of paragraph (k) of Section 5.02
of the Regulations:
(a) NDC or NACO shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or dis-
0


﻿A-
12
establishment of NDC or NACO or for the suspen-
sion of their operations, without the prior consent
of the Association;
(c) before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall
have suspended, terminated, repealed or amended
the National Development Corporation Act, 1962 so
as to affect adversely the ability of NDC to carry
out the covenants and agreements set forth in the
Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or NDC shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the First Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(e) before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall
have divested NACO of its title to, or rights or
other interests in, any of the parcels of land on
which the ranches included in the Project are situ-
ated, without the consent of the Association.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01(b)
of the Regulations:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of NDC and NACO have been duly author-
ized or ratified by all necessary corporate and gov-
ernmental action;
(b) the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
executed in form satisfactory to the Association and
has become fully effective and binding on the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms, subject only to


﻿I
13
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment; and
(c) the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly executed in form satisfactory to the Association
and has become fully effective and binding on the
parties thereto in accordance with its terms, subject
only to the effectiveness of the First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the Regu-
lations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
NDC and NACO and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of NDC and NACO, respectively, in ac-
cordance with its terms;
(b) the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the parties thereto, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms; and
(c) the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto, and con-
stitutes a. valid and binding obligation of the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of January 31, 1969 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project and NDC and NACO
shall forthwith terminate.


﻿I
14
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTIoN 7.03. The Minister of the Borrower for the
time being responsible for finance is designated for the
purposes of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.


﻿I
15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By   /s/ MICHAEL LUKUMBUZYA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                             Dollar Equivalent
A. Long-term loan for investment
in beef ranching development           $1,035,000
B. Technical services and training           165,000
C. Unallocated                               100,000
TOTAL         $1,300,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in either
Category A or Category B shall decrease, the amount
of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required
for, such Category A or Category B, as the case may
be, will be reallocated by the Association to Category C.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in either
Category A or Category B shall increase, an amount
equal to 65%  of such increase will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory A or Category B, as the case may be, from Cate-
gory C, subject, however, to the requirements for con-
tingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect
of the cost of the items in the other Category.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Borrower's com-
prehensive livestock development program and consists of
the following parts:
A. Ranch Development
The provision of finance, as follows, to NACO for the
development of five large-sized beef ranches with a
total carrying capacity of 55,000 to 65,000 animal
units per annum:
(i) a long-term loan from the Borrower, through
NDC, to NACO, and
(ii) equity investment by NDC in NACO.
The location of the said ranches will be determined
by agreement between the Association, the Borrower
and NACO.
Ranch development includes investments for on-ranch
roads and firebreaks, fencing, water supplies, stock han-
dling and animal health control facilities, machinery, ranch
buildings and breeding stock and the initial procurement
of feeder steers for fattening.
B. Technical Services and Training
(i) The provision of technical services for NACO
to prepare ranch development plans and to super-
vise their execution, to make studies for efficient
development of livestock watering facilities and
to evaluate the effectiveness of tsetse clearance
and control measures by the Borrower for Proj-
ect ranches, and
(ii) The provision of a ranch management training
for NACO.
The Project is scheduled to be completed by mid-1973.


