CREDIT NUMBER 132 TA
Project Agreement
(Beef Ranching Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COMPANY, LIMITED
DATED OCTOBER 31, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 132 TA
Project Agreement
(Beef Ranching Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
AND
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COMPANY, LIMITED
DATED OCTOBER 31, 1968


﻿AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 1968, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), the NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(hereinafter called NDC) and the NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
COMPANY, LTD. (hereinafter called NACO).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the United Republic of Tanzania
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
which agreement, the schedules therein referred to and
the Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of the Associa-
tion made applicable thereto are hereinafter called the
Development Credit Agreement, the Association has agreed
to assist in the financing of a beef ranching development
project of the Borrower by making available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
million three hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000) on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition inter alia that NDC and
NACO agree to undertake certain obligations to the Asso-
ciation as hereinafter in this Project Agreement set forth;
and
WVHEREAs NDC and NACO, in consideration of the Asso-
ciation's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several


﻿4
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement shall
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of NDC
SECTION 2.01. NDC shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and shall at all
times conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound economic, administrative and financial practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent man-
agement.
SECTION 2.02. NDC shall relend the proceeds of the First
Subsidiary Loan to NACO, in accordance with Part A of
the Project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to NDC
and the Association pursuant to a loan agreement satis-
factory to the Association, and, in granting such loan,
NDC shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests
and the interests of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.03. NDC shall make available to NACO, by
way of subscription to the capital stock of NACO, funds
,equivalent to 35%o of the total cost of carrying out the
ranch development referred to in Part A of the Project.
SECTIOx 2.04. NDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, NDC shall not take
any action or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any
provision of the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. NDC shall exercise its rights under the
Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of NDC, the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NDC shall not take or concur in any action which


﻿w
5
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving any provision of the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 2.06. Before the Project shall have been com-
pleted in accordance with the Development Credit Agree-
ment, any appointment to the position of NACO's General
Manager shall be made only after agreement with the
Association.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants of NACO
SECTION 3.01. (a) NACO shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and shall at all times
conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
agricultural, administrative, economic and financial prac-
tices and under the supervision of experienced and com-
petent management.
(b) NACO shall appoint Ranch Managers in charge of
the ranches included in the Project, upon the recommenda-
tion of NACO's Chief Development Officer (Ranching) and
after consulting with the Association sufficiently in advance
of such appointments for the Association to have adequate
opportunity to comment on them.
(c) Before the Project shall have been completed in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement, any
appointment to the positions of NACO's Chief Develop-
ment Officer (Ranching) and Chief Veterinary Officer shall
be made only after agreement with the Association, and
the terms, conditions, powers and duties for such positions
shall be determined in consultation with the Association.
SECTION 3.02. (a) NACO shall select appropriate sites
for two ranches additional to those situated respectively
at Kitengule, West Kilimanjaro and Mkata, and shall,
within eighteen months of the date of this Agreement sub-
mit to the Association for its approval, detailed plans for


﻿7
6
the development of such additional ranches. The Associa-
tion shall make its best efforts to appraise such plans
promptly upon their submission to the Association.
(b) Upon the approval by the Association of such devel-
opment plans, NACO shall transfer all breeding cattle
from the Mkata ranch to the said two additional ranches,
provided, however, that if NACO shall submit to the Asso-
ciation, evidence, satisfactory to the Association, as to the
technical and financial feasibility of carrying on a cattle
breeding enterprise on said Mkata ranch, NACO may oper-
ate approximately 80,000 acres of such ranch for the pur-
pose of breeding and fattening cattle.
(c) If NACO shall operate Mkata ranch for the purpose
of breeding cattle pursuant to the proviso to the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (b) the breeding stock on said
Mkata ranch shall not exceed 3,000 breeding cows plus
3,600 young cows (ages ranging from 6 months to 3 years).
NACO shall transfer to other ranches of NACO, or other-
wise dispose of, any breeding stock in excess of said
numbers.
(d) NACO shall not purchase any breeding cattle for
the ranches included in the Project unless such cattle shall
have been duly inspected by NACO's Chief Veterinary
Officer and approved by its Chief Development Officer
(Ranching).
SECTION 3.03. NACO shall inform the Association of
any proposed investment projects in dairying sufficiently
in advance of the proposed investments to enable NACO
to take into account the comments of the Association with
respect to the technical feasibility and the economic and
financial viability of such investment projects.
SECTION 3.04. NACO shall (i) cause all goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Second Subsidiary Loan to be
used exclusively in the territories of the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project; and (ii) cause such goods to be pro-


﻿7
cured in accordance with the methods and procedures pro-
vided in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
and in agreements supplemental thereto.
SECTION 3.05. NACO shall establish and maintain sepa-
rate accounts for each of the ranches included in the Proj-
ect, and have such accounts and the financial statements of
NACO audited annually by an independent accountant or
accounting firm acceptable to the Association, and shall
transmit to the Association, not later than three months
after the close of NACO's fiscal year, certified copies of
such accounts and a signed copy of such accountant's or
such firm's report.
SECTION 3.06. NACO shall maintain records adequate to
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Second Subsidiary Loan, to disclose the use thereof, to
record the progress of the Project and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices all financial transactions between NACO and NDC
with respect to the Project and the operations and financial
condition of NACO; and shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Second Subsidiary Loan and any relevant
records and documents.
SECTION 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, NACO shall insure or cause to be insured the im-
ported goods, including livestock, to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Second Subsidiary Loan against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by NACO to replace or
repair such goods.
SECTION 3.08. NACO shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except
as the Association and NDC shall otherwise agree, NACO


﻿8
shall not take any action or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving any provision of the Second Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
SECTION 3.09. NACO shall (i) promptly take all requi-
site steps for the acquisition and retention by NACO of
all such lands, interests in land and properties and all
rights, powers and privileges as may be necessary for the
establishment and operation of the ranches included in
the Project; and (ii) promptly furnish to the Association
satisfactory evidence of its acquisition of such lands, inter-
ests, rights, powers and privileges.
ARTICLE IV
Joint Covenants of NDC and NACO
SECTION 4.01. (a) NDC, NACO and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other parties all such information as
such other parties shall reasonably request.
(b) NDC, NACO and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
NDC and NACO shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by NDC and NACO of their respective
obligations under this Project Agreement, or, where appro-
priate, the carrying out of the provisions of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 5.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If the Development


﻿Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 8.04
of the Regulations, the Association shall promptly notify
NDC and NACO of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 5.02. If and when the entire principal amount
of the Second Subsidiary Loan shall have been repaid by
NACO to NDC in accordance with the Second Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, or on December 31, 1980, whichever
is later, this Project Agreement and all obligations of
NDC and NACO hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 6.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power, or remedy accruing to any
party under this Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be con-
strued to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such
default; nor shall the action of such party in respect of
any default or any acquiescence in any default, affect or
impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect
of any other or subsequent default.
SECTION 6.02. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram
or cablegram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿10
For the Association:
InternationalDevelopment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For NDC:
National Development Corporation
Development House, P. 0. Box 2669
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Cable address:
NATDEV
Dar es Salaam
For NACO:
National Agricultural Company, Ltd.
Mavuno House, P. O. Box 9113
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Cable address:
NACO
Dar es Salaam
SECTION 6.03. NDC and NACO shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the persons
who will, on behalf of NDC and NACO respectively, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted
to be taken or executed by NDC and NACO pursuant to
any of the provisions of this Project Agreement and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 6.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Project Agreement to be signed in their respec-
tive names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ MICHAEL LUKUMBUZYA
Authorized Representative
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL COMPANY, LIMITED
By /s/ MICHAEL LUKUMBUZYA
Authorized Representative


