INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
China: Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project
June 16, 1994
The above-captioned Staff Appraisal Report for China: Songliao
Plain Agricultural Development Project is a revised version of the report
prepared following the approval of the Project by the Executive Directors
of the Bank and does not include information deemed confidential by the
Government of the People's Republic of China.



I



Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/3 77P-CAII-
F,           ~~~11`7?5= CHA
STAFIF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 1, 1994
IN ACCORDANCE WTH THE WORLD BAK'S
POUCY D. OISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
TH16 DOIC_WEHT IS AVAILABLE TO THE PUBL.
Agriculture Operations Division                                                   / 7
China and Mongolia Department
East Aia and Pacific Regional Office
eY



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS I/
(January 1, 1994)
Currency Unit   - Yuan (Y)
$1.00    =  Y 8.7
Y 1.00    -  $0.115
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WIGHTS AND MEASURE
I meter (m)       3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)    =  35.31 cubic feet
I millimeter (mm)    =  0.04 inch
1 kilometer (kIn)    =  0.62 miles
1 square kdlometer (kmi2)    =  100 hectares
1 hectare (ha)      15 mu
I ton (t)       1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)    =  2.2 pounds
1 kilovolt OMV)    =  1,000 volts
I ldlowatt (W)    =  1,000 watts
1/  This proect W   appraisd m lune/uly 1993 whm the excane ate was $1 - Y 5.7. AUl costs and
finncing hve bee raculaed gt the ate of $1 - Y 8.7, effective Januay 1, 1994. Economic and  A
finncial  lysis   baed on origal pprisal parmiete.  he devaluaton would imrove economic
ad finaal ruts to some extnL,



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC          - Agricultural Bank of China
AI           - Ardficial Insemination
BOD          - Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BOF          - Bureau of Finance
CATEC        - County Agrotechnical Extension Center
CIS          - Commonwealth of Independent States
DCA          - Development Credit Agreement
ERR          - Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP       - Food and Agriculturl Organization/Cooperative Program
FRR          - Financial Rate of Return
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
GOC          - Government of China
GVAO         - Gross Value of Agricultural Output
ICB          - Internaitonal Competitive Bidding
DA           - International Development Association
IPM          - Integrated Pest Management
ITC          - International Tendering Company
LCB          - Local Competitive Bidding
LN           - Liquid Nitrogen
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
NCPG         - North China Power Grid
NECN         - Northeast China Network
O&M          - Operation and Maintenance
PCBC         - People's Construction Bank of China
PEPB         - Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
PLG          - Project Leading Group
PMO          - Project Management Office
PO           - Project Office
PPMO         - Provincial Project Management Office
ppm          - Parts per Million
SMC          - Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
SOE          - Statement of Expenditure
TATES        - Township Agrotechnical Extension Station
WCB          - Water Consevancy Bureau
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






CBINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:    Liaoning and Jilin Provinces
Amount:           SDR 148.5 million ($205 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 35 years' maturity
Objectives and
Description:    The major objective of the project is to increase agricultural
production, farm-family incomes, rural employment and women's
participation by increasing the productivity and marketability of
crop, fruit, livestock and aquatic products. The project would
increase hectaae of productive lands by (a) expanding irrigation
and drainage ficilities; (b) developing unutilized wastelands,
including introduction of soil and water conservation; and (c)
developing intertidal areas for aquaculture production. It would also
diversify crop production from com to rice and wheat, and invest in
livestock production and agroprocessig activities to make use of
surplus corn and other by-products.
Benefits and
Risks:          The project would directly increase incomes, employment and
living standards of some 518,000 farm  families.   At full
development, the project would generate incremental annual
production of 177,000 tons of grains (paddy, wheat and soyabeans)
valued at $30.5 million (after adjusting for associated reduction in
corn); 187,600 tons of fruits valued at $56.1 million; beef, mutton,
rabbit and goose meat, and deer antlers together, including the value
of processing, valued at $37.5 million; shrimp, shellfish and crabs
products valued at $24 million; and the value added of $40.2 million
per year from agroprocessing plants. The project's incremental
annual value of production would be $188.3 million. The average
farm income would be tripled or quadrupled. The economic rate of
return for the total project is estimated at 32 percent. Significant
employment, including for women, would be created by all
components. There are few risks, which have been satisfactorily
minimized.



Estimated Cost:                                  Loa    Eoreign   IQ1I
(S million)
Irfigation and drainage         16.9      12.5    29.4
Field crop development           4.7      16.8    21.5
Orchard development             17.9     12.4    30.3
Soil and water conservation     2.7       1.3      4.0
Livestock development           39.3      19.9    59.2
Livestock processing            15.9      16.2    32.1
Agroprocessing                  37.0     69.5   106.5
Aquaculture development         11.5      8.9    20.4
Project management               1.7      3.6      5.3
Base Costs La              147 6     IAL      308 7
Physical contingencies          7.3      14.2    21.5
Price contingencies            40.6      11.5    52.1
Total Proect Costs         l9 S      18 81,
Pbm:
MA                              18.2    186.8   205.0
Provincial, prefecture, municipal
and county governments        62.6       0.0    62.6
Commercial banks               57.8       0.0    57.8
Enterpriss and farmers          56.9      0.0    56.9
Toul                       1295      16     382.
Estimated Disbusements:
BRD/IDA FY  1995 1996 19972k                            29  2Q1
($million)
Annual                 30    42    41    41    24         19      8
Cumulative             30    72    113   154    178   197   205
Poverty Category: Not applicable
Economic Rate
of Return:      Crops 42 percent, Orchards 47 percnt, Livestock 27 percent,
Aquaculture 26 percent, Agroindustry 23 percent, Livestock
procsing 27 percent, Overall Weighted Project 32 percent.
La Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



CONTENTS
1   Badckound                   ....................................                             1
A. Introduction               ...................................                           1
B. Agricultural Seo ...............................                                         1
C. Livestock Subsector                 ..............................                       2
D. Fisheries Subsector ..                                                                   3
E. Sectoml Objectives and BaI Lending.                                                      4
F. Agriculture in Liaoning and Jilin Provinces ................                             5
G. Rural Incomes and Poverty   ........................        .                            7
H. Project Formulation and Rationale  .....................                                 8
2 The Project Areas                                    ..                                        9
A. Loction              ...........................                                         9
B. Climate, Topography and Soils  .......................                                   9
C. Water Resources ................................                                        10
D. Water Avaiability and Water Balance  ...................                                11
E. Population, Farm  Size and Land Use   ...................                               12
F. Preset Development  .............................                                       12
G. Infrastucture                                 ..                                        15
H. Design Considerations   ............               ..       ..............              16
I. Women in Agriculturl Development  ....................                                  16
3  TheProject .....................................                                             17
A. Project Objectives  .............. ..                    ...............                17
B. Project Description   ..............................                                    17
C. Detailed Features   ...............................                                     18
D. Status of Preparation   ....... ........                   ..............               36
E. Implementation Schedule ...........................                                     36
F. Cost Estimates  .................................                                        37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June/July 1993. Members
of the mission team included R. Jaisaard (Mission Leader), W. P. Ting, U. El-Hanbali,
C. De Haan, M. Sharma (IDA), D. Gue, A. Kaelin and G. Franzen (Consultants).
Another involved in the preappraisal was Mr. A. Nell. Peer reviewers comprised
Messrs. De Haan (AGRTN), Pritchard (SA2AG), Ochs (AGRNR), Chobanian, Zweig
(ASTEN). The Division Chief is Joseph Goldberg and the acting Department Director is
Zafer Ecevit.



- iv -
G. Financing             ....................................                         37
H. Procurement               ..................................                       38
I. Disbursement .................                    .................                40
J. Accounts and Audits  ...... .........                   ..............             41
K. Environmental Impacts  ............            ..       ..............             42
4   Organization and Management  ........................                                 44
A. Project Organization ..............................44
B. management  ..................................45
C. Environmental Monitoring and Management ...............45
D. Financial Management  ............................46
E. Management of Production Activities  ...................47
F. Operation and Maintenance  .........................48
G. Project Launch Workshop    ..48
H. Monitoring, Evaluation and R.or.ing...........48
5   Production, Markets and Prices ........................50
A. Production       ...................              .................                50
B. Markets  .....................................                                     52
C. Prices  ......................................                                     54
6   Benefits, Justification and Risks   .......................                           55
A. Benefits  .....................................                                    55
B. Employment and Incomes ................                                            55
C. Employment Opportunities for Women  .......             ..      .........          56
D. Cost Recovery  .................................                                   56
E. Financia and Economic Analyses  .....................                              57
F. Risks .......................................                                      58
7 Agreements and Recommendations.                                                         59
TAmLS IN TE:x
3.1 Project Cost Summary .37
3.2 Procurement Profile .39



Asm
1.    Basic Provincial and Project Area Statistics ................        62
Water Supply and Demand
Basic Data for Each Component
Research and Training Programs
2.    Project Cost Summary  ............................                   85
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Summary Accounts by Project Component
Project Component by Year
Procurement of Machinery, Equipment and Material
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.    Cropped Areas, Yield and Production ...................              99
Crop Budgets
Farm Models
Livestock
Agroindustries
Livestock Processing
Rent and Cost Recovery
Main Conversion Factors Used
Border Prices for Principal Products and Inputs
Financial Analysis
Economic Analysis
Key Monitoring Indicators
4. Supeision Plan .132
5.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files          133
CHART
1.    Organization  ..................................                    136
2.    Supply and Demand ..............................                    137
3.    Implementation Schedule ...........................                  139
4.    Procurement Schedule .............................                   144
IFIGURES
1.    Cropping Calendar of Main Annual Crops ................             147
MB24
IBRD 24858
IBRD 24859






1. BACKGROUND
A. INIRODUCIION
1.1        The Government of China (GOC) has requested International Development
Association (IDA) assistance in financing an integrated agricultural development project
in Liaoning and finm Provinces. The project would cover 40 counties of 13 prefectures
and municipalities. The main objectives of the project would be to increase agricultural
production, farmers' incomes and rual employment. The proposed project emphasizes the
effective use of existing resources to increase agricultural production and processing in
response to market demands. The project would increase the hectaage of productive lands
by (a) expanding irrigation and drainage facilities, (b) developing unutilized wastelands,
and (c) developing intertidal areas for aquaculture production. in the course of developing
hilly wasteland, programs of soil and water conservation are introduced. The project
would also diversify crop production away from com to rice and wheat and would invest
in livestock production and agroprocessing activities to make use of surplus corn and
by-products. It would include components where women are the primary beneficiaries.
The project was identified by a World Bank mission in November 1991 and prepared by
United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Program  (FAO/CP)
missions in June and November 1992. The preappraisal and appraisal missions visited the
project areas in March/April and June/July 1993, respectively.
B. AGCULTnuRAL SEcIOR
1.2         Agriculture in China-including crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries-
provides sustenance for about 1.2 billion people; it is an important source of income for
some 200 million farm families and accounts for about 30 percent of the country's gross
domestic product (GDP). Only about 137 million hecures (ha) of China's land area of
960 million ha are arable. Farming systems are therefore intensive, with heavy inputs of
labor, fertilizer, small machinery and water. Nearly half of the cropped area is irrigated.
Foodgrains occupy about 70 percent of total cropland and account for about one third of
the value of agricultural output. Intensive farming has enabled China to meet the basic
food requirements of its population, about 22 percent of the world's total, with less than
11 percent of the world's arable land, and to produce an increasingly sophisticated mix of
cash and commercial crops.
1.3         China's sustained rural reform program has revitalized the agricultural sector
and provided impressive growth and structural change through the introduction of the
production responsibility system, increased producer prices and an enlarged role for market
forces. The gross value of agricultural output (GVAO) increased by 83 pecent in real
terms during the 1978-91 period (6 percent per year), substntially faster than during the



-2 -
previous 25-year period (3 percent per year). While significant growth in grain production
was achieved in the early part of the period (eaking at 407 millon tons in 1984),
stagnating grain production was the Government's central agricultural concern during the
late 1980s, with production ranging between 379-402 million tons during the 1985-88
period as farmers substituted other crops for grain. Major efforts were made to increase
grain production and recently production appears to have risen to a new plateau, with 446,
435 and 440 million tons in 1990-92, respectively.
1.4         The Government's strategy to increase grain production included diverse
measures, such as increasing state investment in agriculture, mainly in irrigation
rehabilitation and expanson, and introducing fundamental reforms in grain procurement,
distribution, prices and subsidies. These reforms fixed provincial grain procurement
quotas at substantially reduced levels, with steadily increasing market-based negotiated
prices; increased grain quota procurement prices, so that wheat and corn farm-gate prices
now approach world levels; converted most the pricing of official interprovincial grain
shipments from quota to negotiated prices; and in 1991 and 1992, for the first time in
30 years, substantially increased urban ration grain and edible oil prices in real terms
(132 percent to 160 percent). Recent years have also seen the establishment of fledgling
grain commodity exchanges for all major grains in various Chinese cities (e.g.,
Zhengzhou, Changchun, Wuhan, Harbin, and Changsha).
1.5        In the context of the preparation of the Bank Group-financed Grain
Distribution and Marketing Project (Credit 2518/Loan 3624-CHA), the reform program
to date, involving the steady elimination of grain consumption subsidies, the substantial
reduction of grain procurement quotas, the opening of the internal grain trade to all
interested units and individuals, the commecializtion of grain wholesaling and retailing
enterprises, and the establishment of a futures market in grain, all aim eventually at
market-determined pricing of virtually all grain in China. These changes have altered the
grain balance from shortage to surplus in several regions of the country, including the
proposed project area in respect of com, and this has determined the design of the
proposed project.
C. LFso   SuBscOR
1.6         The livestock subsector in China has grown rapidly since the reforms of
1978 and its share of agricultural GNP has increased from 14 percent in 1980 to 26 percent
in 1991. This change reflects the incentives provided by liberalized livestock production
and marketing regulation inherent in the rural reforms and specific government incentive
policies. From 1988 to 1991, production of beef, mutton and poultry increased annually
by approximately an average of 13 percent and that of pork by 6 percent. Similar average
annual increments occurred with eggs (9 percent) and milk (7 percent). Beef production
expanded due to a rising offtame rate and expanding export markets. The inr    in sheep
production was due to pasture improvement and increased cropflivestock integration in
traditional cropping zones. Poultry production increased rapidly due to strong domestic
demand and the development of export markets.



-3-
1.7         China's per capita meat consumption increased from 9 kilograms (kg) in
1978 to 21 kg in 1991. The major meat consumed is pork (17 kg per capita in 1991).
Consumption of beef, mutton and poultry is still under 2 kg per capita. This level of meat
consumption is still among the lowest in the world. Per-capita milk consumption of only
4 kg is also extremely low, although it is much higher in the larger cities. While low, this
domestic demand for livestock products is increasing rapidly along with disposable
incomes. Consumption patterns for livestock products are also changing in favor of leaner
meat and dairy products, especially in urban areas. Wool consumption has also increased
substantially, and China is now a major importer of raw wool.
D. FsHRES SuBsEcroR
1.8         China has a mainland coastline of around 18,000 kilometers (kIn), and its
many islands provide an additional 12,000 to 14,000 km. Geographically, there are four
principal marine production areas, namely the South China Sea, the East China Sea, the
Yellow Sea and the Bo Sea. The continental shelf down to 200 meters is around
1.5 million kIa2, and the inshore areas and mudflats suitable for coastal aquaculture are
estimated to cover 1.3 million ha, of which 300,000 ha are currently used for commercial
production. China's marine catch is harvested by trawling and seining in coastal waters
generally down to 80 meters, and these areas are currently overexploited. Consequently,
China has increased its efforts to develop a distant-water fisheries, through joint ventures
and expanding its wholly owned fleet. In recent years, rapid expansion in cultured marine
species has taken place, involving new propagation technology. Shrimp (mostly Peneaus
orientalis), scallops, abalone, hard clams, short-neck clams, sea cucumbers and mussels
are the predominant species cultured. Inland water surfaces in China cover approximately
17 million ha, composed of rivers (50 percent), natural lakes (30 percent), reservoirs
(12 percent) and ponds (8 percent). It is estimated that around 5 million ha are suitable
for aquaculture. Another 10 million ha of irrigated paddy fields, where aquaculture could
also be practiced, are also available.
1.9         The fisheries subsector, including culture and capture production from both
the marine and freshwater sources, accounts for some 6 percent of GVAO. Total fish
production in China in 1991 is estimated at 13.5 million tons, of which culture fisheries
accounted for just over 6.5 million tons (1.9 million tons from mariculture and 4.6 million
tons from freshwater aquaculture). Between 1980 and 1991, national fish production
increased at an average annual rate of 10.6 percent. This increase was mainly due to the
rapid growth of marine and freshwater culture, which in turn was the result of
implementing a revised fisheries development policy, characterized by liberalizing the
market for fish, encouraging the development of aquaculture, and conserving offshore
marine fish resources. China is now the largest producer of freshwater cultured fish and
shrimp, the latter accounting for 35 percent of the world production. China is also the
largest producer in the world of fish and other seafood at 13.5 million tons in 1991. This
total grew 1.1 million tons in one year from 12.3 million tons in 1990.



-4 -
E. SECRAL OBjEcnWE AND BANK LENING
1.10       The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector are to
increase production to meet the requirements created by population and income growth and
to increase income and employment in rural areas. Given China's shortage of arable land
(0.1 ha per capita), development planners have focused on the need to increase the
productivity of presently cropped areas and to efficiently develop the few remaining areas
of unutilized land. Per capita production and total value-added in the crop subsector are
to be raised primarily by increasing the yield and quality of food, feed, orchard, and
industrial crops and also by increasing the volume of agroprocessing.
1.11       The Government's objectives for livestock and aquaculture development are
to increase production for domestic consumption (and thereby improve nutrition), increase
exports and earn foreign exchange, and provide an additional source of income for the
rural population. High-value livestock products (meat and exotic products) and aquatic
products (shrimp, scallop, and shellfish) are being targeted for export markets. The
livestock development strategy emphasizes the introduction of superior breeding stock,
better-quality feed, industrial (stall-fed) management systems, pasture improvement,
additional processing plants, and improved veterinary and breeding services. The aquatic
development strategy emphasizes establishment of aquaculture systems on land unsuitable
for crop cultivation, such as freshwater culture in swamps, floodplains, marshes and poorly
drained land and marine culture in coastal lowlands, shoals and mudflats.
1.12       Bank Group agriculturl lending to date has comprised 33 operations
amounting to $4.4 billion and has covered a wide spectrum of geographic areas and
subsectors, with overall foci on land development, irrigation and drinage, and flood
control (seven projects), upgrading of agricultural support services including agriculturl
research, education, credit and seed improvement (eight projects), development of
specialized subsectors including rubber, forestry, fruit and fisheries (nine projects), and
area development (seven projects). It is designed to support the Government's efforts to
increase and diversify agricultural production through more efficient use of land, water,
capital and labor resources and through the improvement of support services such as credit,
research and agricultural education. Since 1987, the Bank Group has suppted a series
of provincial development projects in which an area development approach has been
applied. The projects were designed for poverty alleviation and also to assist the
Government in its ongoing reform process.  The Rural Sector Adjustment Loan
(Credit 1932-CHA/Loan 2967-CHA), which was approved during 1988, contributed to the
articulation of the overall reform process, and involved the Bank Group in increasingly
intensive policy dialogue with government counterparts in the agricultural, marketing and
poverty alleviation areas, sustained through several major sector studies (e.g., on grain,
poverty alleviation, animal feed, and management of the Yellow River) and project
formulation exercises.
1.13       Implementation of most ongoing Bank Group-financed projects in the
agriculture sector is on schedule. Experience in previous Bank agricultural projects in
China is that physical works have been completed on time or ahead of schedule.



-5-
Disbursements for agricultural projects, in fact, usually outpace those in other sectors.
Notable features of all the projects are the high standard of project management, the active
participation of farmers and the effective collaboration of government authorities at all
levels. Twelve projects have been completed: North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclaation, First and Second Rural Credit Projects, Seeds, Rubber Development, Second
Agricultural Research, Red Soils, Rural Sector Adjustment, Pishihang, Freshwater
Fisheries and Forestry.  The completion reports for these projects indicate that
implementation was successful, that economic rates of return reached or exceeded appraisal
estimates, and that the technology used for land development and drainage was sound and
appropriate for wider application.
1.14        Completed projects similar to the one proposed have indicated the most
effective approaches to corrting waterlogging and salinity problems as well as the
organizational and management requirements of integrated rural development opeations.
In light of the lessens learned, the design of this project incorporates the following
features: (a) use of proven irnigation and drainage technologies to correct waterlogging
and soil salinity; (b) carefully balanced, joint use of surface and groundwater and alfalfa
planting for salinity control; (c) rational water resource management and effective
operation and maintenance of facilities to ensure susuinability; (d) supply of sufficient
inputs to maintain the agricultural productivity of reclaimed areas; (e) provision of
technical experts to assist in the design and management of agroprocessing facilities; and
(f) effective coordination of organization units at all levels.
1.15        The World Bank has already been involved in the Liaoning and Jilin
agricultural sectors through three sectoral projects-Seeds Project, Fourth Rural Credit
Project and the Agricultural Support Services Project. The Seeds Project was aimed at
strengthening production, processing, storage and distribution of certified seeds. The
Fourth Rural Credit Project finances investments by farmers, collectives and enterprises
in crops, livestock, fisheries and agroprocessing; and promotes efficiency of rural financial
intermediation through introduction of sound, market-oriented policies and development
of the main institutions concerned with rural savings mobilization and lending, mainly the
Agricultural Bank of China. Similarly, the Agricultural Support Services Project aims at
strengthening support services in several provinces including Jiln and Liaoning.
F. AGRCuluRE IN   ONING A   JiN PROVINCES
Liaong
1.16        Liaoning is located in the southern part of northeast China (Map IBRD
24858), covering an area of 146,000 kam2 with 39 million population. Agriculture
contributes 12 percent of provincial GDP and employs 52 percent of the total population.
The provincial GVAO in 1991 was Y 30.2 billion compared to Y 7.4 billion in 1980
(Y 14.5 billion in 1991 prices). Its average annual growth rate over the period was
6.7 percent in real terms. Within agriculture, crop production contributed 52 percent,
followed by livestock (29 percent), fisheries (11 percent), sideline activities (6 percent) and
forestry (2 percent). Since 1978, sectoral growth has been fastest in fisheries (24 percent),



-6 -
followed by livestock (22 percent), sideline production (18 percent), forestry (16 percent)
and crop production (10 percent).
1.17       Cultivated land occupies about 3.6 million ha of the provincial land area,
with 30 percent under full or pardal irrigation. Nearly 3.1 million ha were sown to
foodgrains, primarily corn and paddy. Per-capita gmain production was about 380 kg.
Soybeans are the second most important crop next to grains, followed by other oil crops,
fruit and vegetables. The yields of corn and paddy were higher than the national average.
Total production of corn, paddy and wheat were 8.5, 4.0 and 0.5 million tons,
respectively, in 1991. Grain production increased by 2.6 percent per year between 1980
and 1991 (despite a 8 percent reduction in cultivated land). Fruit production increased
from 806,000 tons in 1986 to 1.0 million tons in 1991 (an increase of 25 percent). These
increases were possible due to the availability and use of improved varieties and modern
farm inputs.
1.18       The livestock subsector doubled its contribution to the GVAO from
14 percent in 1978 to 29 percent in 1991. Between 1980 and 1991, total meat production
(95 percet pork) tripled from 303,000 tons to 1 million tons. Annual per-capita
consumption of meat in the province (12 kg) is considerably lower than the national
average of 21 kg per capita. The fisheries subsector has tripled its contribution to GVAO
from 4 percent in 1978 to 11 percent in 1991. Production, comprising capture and culture
of aquatic products, reached 1.1 million tons in 1991, an increase of 70 percent over 1986
production. These increases are mainly attributable to increased production of shellfish,
shrimp and crab. Annual average consumption of aquatic products averages about 2.4 kg
per capita.
1.19       Crop production is mainly carried out by households with small per-capita
landholding (0.1 ha). Farming has to be very intensive, dependent on the availability of
inputs and water. Livestock is raised mainly by individual households, with at least one
or two pigs per household fed on crop residues. Along with poultry, they are raised
mainly by women. As Liaoning has limited grain and oilseed for livestock feed, it suffers
from a lack of quality feed. This situation highlights the need for continued promotion of
crop residue-based ruminant production systems in the province. Shrimp and shelfish are
produced under contract to households. The province has an enormous potential for
expanding and improving aquatic production, as large suitable areas for aquaculture remain
undeveloped. The main constraints are lack of funds and supporting infrastructure
including hatcheries, processing facilities and cold storage.
Jilin
1.20       Jun is located in the central part of northeast China, north of iaoning
(Map IBRD 24858), covering an area of 187,000 kIn2, with population of 25 million, of
which 60 percent are in agriculture. Unlike Liaoning, the agricultural sector in Jilin is still
the basis for its economy, accounting for nearly 57 percent of 1991 provincial GDP. The
GVAO in 1991 was Y 18.8 billion compared to Y 6 billion in 1980 (Y 12 billion in 1991
yuan). Its real average annual growth rte was 4.2 percent over the period. Within



-7 -
agriculture, crops contributed 69 percent, followed by livestock (24 percent), forestry
(2 percent), fisheries (2 percent) and sideline activities (3 percent). Crop production
increased by 18 percent per year between 1985 and 1991, with grain availability of 740 kg
per capita.
1.21        In 1991, 7 prcent of its 4.1 million ha of cultivated area was sown to grain
crops, 8 percent to cash crops and 5 percent to other crops. Corn accounted for 56 percent
of the total sown area and 64 percent of the grain area. Other grain crops are paddy,
wheat, soybeans, sorghum and millet; cash crops are oilseeds, sugar beet and flax; and
other crops are fruit and vegetables. Total production of corn, paddy, soybeans and wheat
was 14.0, 3.0, 0.7 and 0.4 million tons, respectively. Flax is grown on a small area
(3,667 ha), giving an output of 6,100 tons.
1.22        Jllin is the largest corn-surplus area in China. It is estimated that 5 of the
14 million tons produced went for farmers' use as food, seed and livestock feed and the
government quota, leaving 9 million as surplus for industrial use within the province and
export to other provinces or abroad. However, in 1991, only about 2 million tons of corn
(or 22 percent of the surplus) were industrially utilized (for feed 34 percent, food products
31 percent, alcoholic beverages 26 percent and starch 9 percent). The eighth five-year
plan envisages Jiln as becoming more active in com industry development. Emphasis is
placed on com wet-milling, com starch, alcoholic beverages and feed industries. In the
meantime, the province is facing problems of storage and transportation, which are being
partally tackled through the Grain Distribution and Marketing Project.
1.23       Jilin is rich in forest resources, with a forested area of 8.8 million ha or
47 percent of the province, located mainly in the mountainous area in the east and south.
In this area, the province grows and processes ginseng, Chinese herbs and other forestry
products for export and the domestic market. Fruit crops are traditionally grown in the
hilly regions of the south and southeastern part-mainly pinguoli, an apple-pear variety
unique to Jilin.
G. RURAL INcOME AD PovERTY
1.24        The rural agricultural population of Jilin and Liaoning is stil poor. In Jilin,
average annual per capita farm income in the project counties was Y 442 in 1990, about
55 percent of the provincial average of Y 803. Eleven counties in the province are
designated as poor counties, six by the national govemment and five by the province. In
Liaoning, 1991 average per capita income of 26 project counties was Y 808, about
90 percent of the provincial average of Y 896 (Anne 1, Table 3). The province has 15
counties designated officially poor; three were so designated by the national government
and 12 by the province.
1.25        Rural poverty can be attributed to three main conditions:  (a) poor
geographic location in the mountainous region of the eastern and western parts of Liaoning
and the eastern part of Kerqin desert of the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region; (b) poor
natural resource endowments with significant salinity, alkalinity, sandstorms, flooding and



-8 -
waterlogging; (c) poor infrastructure, especially in counties without railway connections;
(d) poor communications, which limit farmers' opportunities to learn about new
technologies and markets; and (e) poorly developed commercial infrastructure, which
diminish farmers' production incentives.
1.26        Reducing poverty is an increasingly important development goal of the
government at all levels. In pursuit of this, the national government has implemented a
number of programs, including construction of roads, bridges and irrigation facilities,
development of diversified production activities and provision of training and supporting
facilities. Local govemments have provided grant funds to support investment by poor
farmers, vocational training in specific fields and production incentives, such as tax
holidays of up to five years. However, these programs are limited in scope due to a
shortage of funds. One of the goals of the national government's eighth five-year plan is
to increase per capita income to Y 800 in all poor counties by 1995 and to Y 1,300 by the
year 2000. Development proposals include investment in crop and livestock production,
agopocesing and promotion of tertiary industry.
H. PRoJEcr FORmuLAION AND RATnoNALz
1.27        The proposed prqject is designed to address the key constraints limiting
agricultural productivity in the project areas: soil salinity and waterlogging, wind- and
sandstorm damage, shortage and poor quality of irrigation water, inadequate crop
diversification, poor inputs and feed quality, limited availability of extension services and
weak linkages between production, processing and marketing activities. The project design
draws on IDA's extensive experience in integrated rural development projects in China.
The lessons from this experience will help the project address major constraints. IDA
involvement would promote the efficient use of limited resources, introduce appropriate
new production and processing technologies, and promote better planning and management
to respond to market demands. It would strengthen research and extension, support
training for farmers, researchers, extension agents and managers, and provide technical
assistance. It would also introduce environmental standards in the designs of
agroprocessing plants, develop monitoring systems and promote environmental protecdon
practices.



-9 -
2. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. LOCATION
2.1        The proposed project would be located in the Songliao plain, which lies in
central Liaoning and western Jin provinces, an area approximately 260 by 540 kin,
covering 145,000 km2. The plain is named for two interlocking drainage basins, that of
the Liao River which drains southward to the Bo Sea and that of the Songhua system which
drains to the North. The project would cover 26 counties of 9 municipalities in Liaoning
and 14 counties of 4 prefectures/municipalities in Jilin, and comprise 612 townships and
5,904 villages. Project locations showing the subcomponents, are shown on IBRD Map
Nos. 24858 and 24859 and area statistics are given in Annex 1, Tables 1-3:
B. CLIME, ToPOGRAIy, AmD Som
2.2         Climate. The project area has a temperate zone monsoonal climate, windy
and dry in spring, hot and rainy in summer, cool and frosty in autumn and cold and dry
during the long winter. In the Liaoning project area, the average temperature varies from
-12°C in January to +25°C in July; there are 140 to 170 frost-free days annually; sunshine
is 2,600-2,900 hours per year; and annual rainfall is 500-740 mm, with most of the
precipitation occurring in the July-to-September period. In the Jilin project area, the
annual climatic data are: average temperature 4-6°C, frost-free days 125-150, sunshine
1,300-1,600 hours, and annual rainfall is 410-590 mm, with most concentrated in the June-
to-September period.  For both provinces, winters are very cold with minimum
temperatures dropping to as low as -39°C. Maximum temperatures in the summer reach
as high as +38°C. Average wind speed ranges from 3 to 6 m/s throughout the year but
there are about 50 days when winds exceed force 8. High winds, which occur during the
April-to-May period, can cause severe damage through sand erosion. Windbreaks have
already been planted on several thousand hectares, and more would be supported under the
project.
2.3         Topography. The project area is located in the alluvial plains of the
Songhua and Liao Rivers and their tributaries. It is a large flat and generally fertile plain,
but with large low-lying land areas that are prone to flooding. Waterlogging, surface
salinity and alklinity are common, particularly since many areas have no natural extemal
drainage. Long, cold winters limit the growing season and frequent droughts dunng the
critical spring period frequently lead to crop failure.
2.4         Soils. The soils in the project area include brown forest, cinnamon,
meadow, hydromorphic, marshy, saline, saline-alkaline and drift-sandy soils. The brown
forest soils, which are acidic loams susceptible to erosion, are found in the upper hill



- 10-
regions. Fruit trees and ground cover crops are planned for these regions. Cinnamon soils
are found in the hilly areas of Fuxin municipality. Meadow soils [mostly loams with some
sandy patches, which are relatively rich in organic matter content (1 percent to 3 percent)]
are widespread in the middle part of the Liao Plain. Grain production is largely carried
out on these soils. Hydromorphic soils used for paddy cultivation are found in the river
valley areas of Qing, Chai, Hun and Pu rivers and in coastal areas. Marshy soils occur
on low-lying lands along the river courses and suffer seasonal waterlogging. In these soils,
groundwater levels drop to about a meter below the surface only during droughts. These
areas are also suitable for paddy cultivation.
2.5         Saline and saline-alkaline soils are found throughout the project area but with
a heavy concentration in Kangping and Zhangwu counties with mineral concentrations in
excess of 7,000 parts per million (ppm). Saline soils contain sodium chloride whereas
saline-alkaline soils also contain carbonates and bicarbonates of sodium and calcium. The
pH value of the surface soil is greater than 9 in saline-alalinesoils. About 6,500 ha of
uncultivated land under this category of soils would be reclaimed through leaching by
irrigation and cultivation of paddy. Several thousand hectares have been reclaimed already
by this process and the soil structure and chemical properties are said to have improved
through paddy cultivation. No chemical applications (for example with gypsum) have been
made so far in the project area to improve percolation and other soil characteristics. About
21,300 ha of lands with saline soils where corn is currently grown (with low yields since
corn is moderately sensitive to salinity) would be converted from dryland agriculture to
irrigated agriculture to grow wheat, based on water availability.
C. WATR RESOURCS
2.6         Surface Water. The project area in Liaoning is served by several rivers
(the Liao, Hun, Taizi, Raoyang, Daling and Xiaoling and their tributaries), most of which
have reservoirs. The spoefic average annual runoff varies from 1.4 liters per second per
kin2 for the Raoyang River to 8.9 for the Taizi River and is highly variable during the
year. The long-term mean annual runoff to the project area from the upper reaches of the
Liao, Hun, Taizi and Raoyang Rivers is estimated at 2.5 billion cubic meters (m3). The
local runoff generated in the project area is about 1.7 billion m3 annually. The surface
water used for irrigation, industry, and urban and rural water supply is estimated at around
3.8 billion m3. There is therefore ample scope for udlizing another 377 million m3 for
development purposes.
2.7         In Jilin, there are 10 main rivers traversing the project area. Total water
resources for this area are estimated at 5.5 billion i3, of which about 1.7 billion m3 are
used for agricultural, industrial, rural and urban water supply, leaving a balance of
3.8 billion m3. Under the proposed project, river water would be used to irrigate paddy
in two counties-Yushu and Jiutai, with the water drawn from Songhua River, one of the
major rivers in northeastern China. The combined water demand of the two irrigation
areas is less than 10 percent of the monthly releases for irrigation from the Fengman
Reservoir on the Songhua River. Releases from this reservoir are enough to irrigate over
126,000 ha. Of this 126,000 ha, about 76,000 ha (including the proposed 8,090 ha of the



- 11 -
project) are located within Changchun prefecture and only about 36,900 ha have so far
been developed in the prefecture for irrigated agriculture. This would allow development
of another 39,000 ha without any constraint of water supply from the Songhua River. The
mean annual release for irrigation from the Fengman Reservoir is about 1.2 billion m3.
The irrigation requirement for the proposed 8,090 ha is estimated at about 112 million m3.
2.8         Groundwater. In Liaoning, the total avcrage annual groundwater resources
available for use are estimated at 4.3 billion m3, of which about 3.2 billion n3 per annum
is utilized as follows: irrigation (2.1 billion m3e, industrial and urban consumption (1.1
billion m3), rural consumption (0.1 billion m3), and other uses (0.01 billion m3). Of the
1.1 billion e3 available for further exploitation, the project would use 155 million n3 per
year. In Jilin, groundwater resources available are estimated at 4.1 billion m3, but most of
these resources are located in Baicheng Prefecture outside the area proposed for irrigated
wheat. Groundwater exploitation is proposed on a small scale in Fuyu county under the
project. The annual utilizable groundwater resources of Fuyu county are cstimated to be
288 million m3. Less than 10 million m3 would be utilized for irrigating 2,000 ha of wheat
under the project.
2.9         Groundwater exploitation has experienced difficulties in the past, with almost
50 percent of the wells now nonoperational. This is attributable to two factors: (a) the
poor quality of material used for well construction. Usually concrete tubes were used, and
the ones constructed have deteriorated quickly. Filters were also of poor quality and have
clogged rapidly. The operational life of such tubewells has only been 5 to 8 years; and
(b) due to the frequent need for maintenance, the performance of small village systems has
varied according to the interest and skills available in each village. Routine maintenance
was not performed, leading to short well lives. Small-scale exploitation of groundwater
is also envisaged under this project but with better quality control in tubewell construction.
2.10        Lands affected by waterlogging in the project area amount to 622,000 ha in
Liaoning and 369,760 ha in Jilin. Drainage by gravity and by pumping would be provided
under the project.
D. WATE AvAMALm Am WATnR BALANCE
2.11        Detailed analysis of water availability and long-term water balance for
Songhua River (in the reach between Fengman Reservoir and Hadashan Rescrvoir, which
comprises the project irrigated ares), including supply and demands for all uses has been
carried out. Summary of the water balance is shown in Annex 1, Table 4. Surplus
quantities of water occur in all months since the first priority for dam operation is
generation of hydroelectric power. In the year 2030, there will be a surplus of 7.4 billion
m3
2.12        Availability of groundwater in the different project areas has been assessed
in order to meet the long-term demands of aU uses. Summary of the water balance for the
different project counties is shown in Annex 1, Table 5. Groundwater would be available



- 12 -
in those counties to meet all future demands. In the year 2015, there will be a surplus of
585 million m3.
E. PoPlAON, FARM Siz Am IAN  USE
2.13        The project area has about 2.5 million farm families with an average family
size of four persons. The rumral population in the project area is 9.5 million with 8.8
million in agnculture. The rural labor force of the project area includes 3.2 million
persons or about 20 percent of the provincial rural labor force. Women comprise
40 percent of the total rural labor force. Family activities are managed jointly by husband
and wife in about 50-60 prcent of the cases; about 6 percent of the families are managed
entirely by women and the rest by men alone. Farm women are generally responsible for
fertilizer application, pruning, weeding, hoeing, plant protection and collection of
fuelwood. They also participate in most other farming tasks, particularly harvest activities.
The average per-capita holding is 0.21 ha in Liaoning and 0.34 ha in Jilin. Farmlands are
cultivated under contract by individual households. The conwact period is generally about
15 years but in the case of orchards, contracts run from 30 to 50 years. On this small
plot, a typical household will usually raise corn (or rice where irrigation is available) or
oil-bearing crops and fruit trees if the land is undulating. Most families raise chickens and
pigs for their own consumption.
2.14        Forest land covers about 28 percent of the Liaoning project area. An
extensive area has been planted to fast-growing trees (populus), mostly around farm
boundaries and along the sides of roads and irrigation canals, which are being supported
from provincial agricultural development funds and China's food-for-work program. Fruit
trees are traditionally grown in the hilly regions of Gongzhuling and Siping. A good
Potential exists for further development because of farmers' long experience, strong
demand for fruit and the availability of wastelands.
F. PRESENr DEVELOPMENr
2.15        Agriculture. The GVAO of the project counties in 1991 amounted to Y 9.7
billion (Y 5.2 billion in Liaoning and Y 4.5 billion in -rlin), with the contribution from
crops and fruit (72 percent), followed by livestock (20 percent), fisheries (3 percent),
sideline production (3 percent) and forestry (2 percent). Seventeen counties have been
proposed for agricultural development, i.e., 12 counties in Liaoning-Changtu, Kangping,
Faku, Tieling, Zhangwu, Jinxian, Beizhen, Heishan, Yixian, Liaoyang, Dengta and Tai
An-and four counties in Jilin-Nong An, Jiutai, Yushu and Fuyu.
2.16        The cultivated area of the 13 counties in Liaoning was 694,000 ha in 1991.
About 482,000 ha (or 69 percent) was sown to foodgrains, primarily corn and paddy.
Soybeans, covering about 81,000 ha, were the second most important crop after grains in
the prOject counties in the province. Other crops, covering a total of 131,000 ha included
sorghum, millet, peanuts, vegetables and fruit. The cultivated area of the four counties
in Jilin was 1.2 million ha. About 993,300 ha (or 83 percent) was sown to corn, paddy
and wheat. Soybeans covered 95,600 ha, fruit and vegetables 45,500 ha and flax just 300



- 13 -
ha. The yields of these crops in the project area were generally lower than the averages
for the two provinces (much lower in the Jilin counties). The main constraints to higher
productivity are sandstorms, waterlogging, surface salinity and alkalinity, frequent droughts
during the critical spring period, and shortage of inputs, particularly fertilizer.
2.17        Fruit trees, mainly apples and pears, are grown on the hilly areas in the
central and western parts of Liaoning, and apple-pears (pinguoli) in the Changbai mountain
area of Jilin. In the five counties proposed under the project in Liaoning, 50,000 ha has
already been developed for orchards (60 percent apples and 40 percent pears) whose output
was 108,690 tons in 1990 (62 percent apples and 38 percent pears), with the average yields
of 2.2 tons/ha (apples) and 2.8 tons/ha (pears). In the two counties proposed for orchard
development in Jiln, 2,400 ha were already planted, of which 440 ha were in apple-pears.
Production of fruit was estimated at 47,000 tons in the province. In both provinces, the
main problems in production include aging of trees, lack of technology, low sdill in field
management and shortage of investment funds. Thus, there is ample scope for improving
existng production.
2.18        Soil, wind and water erosion have a serious negative effect on the
productivity of cropped areas. Floods along the Liao river also damage the liveihood of
many farmers. The flood at its peak in each year reaches 1,000 m3/s, often covering an
area of 580,000 ha. Tree planting and protection of watersheds are expected to improve
the rural environment of the project area and provide stable production conditions.
2.19        Livestock is the second largest sector in the proposed project, accounting
for 24 percent and 15 percent, respectively, of the 1991 GVAOs in the Liaoning and Jilin
project areas. The livestock component would cover 25 counties in the two provinces-13
in Liaoning (Changtu, Kangping, Faku, Xifeng, Tieling, Yixian, Liaoyang, Fuxin,
Zhangwu, Kazhou, Dengta, Chaoyang and Jianping) and 12 in Jilin (Nong An, Dehui,
Jiutai, Shuangyang, suburb of Changchun, Fuyu, Lishu, Changling, Qianguo, Qianan,
Shuangliao, and Gongzhuling City). The animal population in the project area in 1991 was
1.1 million cattle, 5.0 million pigs, 3.2 million sheep, 0.2 million goats and 25 million
poultry.
2.20        Livestock productivity in the project area is low due to lack of quality feed,
poor quality breeds, inadequate farm management and poorly supported veterinary and
animal husbandry programs. For most farmers, cattle production is a sideline depending
largely on straw, hay, leaves and corn stover. This is more so in Liaoning where grains
are less available for feed. In Jilin, some fattening farms feed a mixture of corn and
brewer's and distdller's waste. Lack of credit and poor livestock support services have also
been constraints. The latter suffer from lack of adequate transportation, communication,
equipment and operating budgets. These constaints would be addressed under the project.
2.21        Aquacuure. Liaoning Province has 2,800 Ikm of coastline. It borders the
Yellow Sea to the East and encloses the Bo Sea, which forms a large bay. The project
aquaculture area is located in the westem part of the Bo Sea. Fisheries are its important
economic activity, and Liaoning ranks fifth in China in total tonnage of aquatic products



- 14 -
(1.14 million tons) and third in the production of shrimp and crabs. The five Liaoning
counties proposed for fisheries development, namely Panshan, Dawa, Xingcheng, Suizhong
and Jinxian, have around 14 percent of the province's coastline (350 kIn) and 6.5 percent
of its 1991 production (70,000 tons). Total fisheries GVAO in 1991 for the five counties
was nearly Y 135 million. Some 250,000 workers are engaged in fisheries. Production
comes from capture fisheries (47,000 tons), mariculture (15,000 tons) and freshwater
aquaculture (8,770 tons). Of the 300,000 ha of shallow sea (within 15 m in depth) and the
70,000 ha of coastal land, including 8,000 ha of rocky land, only about 9,000 ha of
shallow sea and 20,000 ha of coastal land have so far been utilized. The main aquatic
species produced are shrimp, jellyfish, hard clam, short-neck clam, blue crab, and
scallops.
2.22        The project counties contain shrimp culture areas of 7,880 ha, giving a total
production of 11,680 tons at an average yield of 1,480 kg/ha. The main problems of
shrimp culture are: eutrophication of offshore sea water, poorly designed pond layouts,
pond aging, silting of channels, shortage of oxygen in pond water and shrimp disease. The
project culture area of coastal and shallow sea shellfish would be 13,333 ha, giving an
output of 2,800 tons combined hard clam and short-neck clam. The main problems of
coastal and shellfish culture are shortage of spat, poor handling and inadequate processing
technology.
2.23        Agricultural support services in the project area are provided by the
technical bureaus of agriculture, water conservancy, animal husbandry, farm machinery,
environmental protection and fisheries at the various levels from province to township.
Research and extension services for field crop production in the proposed development area
are provided by the respective County Agrotechnical Extension Centers (CATECs) and
Township Agrotechnical Extension Stations (TATESs). The proposed area involves 12
CATECs and 155 TATESs. The CATEC in each county directs the work of the TATESs
in the county and also provides staff and farmer training. Farmers are served by TATESs
through farmer technicians. The existing staff and basic facilities are adequate to cope
with the additional services required by the proposed development area. Apart from
Jinxian, Beizhen and Yixian Counties, which are going to be strengthened by the recently
initiated IDA-financed Agricultural Support Services Project, the CATECs need some
facilities and support. The TATESs in both the paddy and wheat irrigation development
areas require additional facilities and equipment to provide better services to project
farmers.
2.24        Distribution of farm inputs, including chemical fertilizer, pesticides, plastic
film and tools are handled by the respective county/township supply and marketing
cooperatives. About 25-30 percent of all fertilizer is allocated in exchange for crop
procurement. Diesel supply is also linked with contract grain purchase. Average annual
per-hectare use of chemical ferdlizer in the project counties is estimated at about 860 kg
(or 120 kg of nutrients). This rate is about 60 percent of the recommended application
rates for the main grains (e.g., the recommendation for corn is 200 to 250 kg nutrient/ha).



- 15 -
Besides the use of organic fertilizer, application of chemical fertilizer has been increasing
in the project counties. The project counties expect a further increase in the use of
chemical fertilizer due to the improvement of existing cultivation and the opening up of
newly irrigated land.
2.25        Supply of improved seed is handled by the relevant county seed companies
opeating under the Agricultural Bureau. These companies handle the multiplication
(mostly through contracting to seed growers), processing, storage and distribution of hybrid
corn seed and other high-yielding variety seed (paddy, wheat and soybean). The existing
seed companies in each county have adequate capacity to cope with additional seed
requirements for paddy, wheat and soybeans under the project.
2.26        Rural Credit. The major source of institutional credit is the provincial
branch of the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) and its network of municipal and county
branches, township-level business offices and Rural Credit Cooperatives in both provinces.
The standard terms and conditions of lending by ABC vary depending on maturity periods
and purposes of loans, from the lowest, 2.88 percent per year, for poverty alleviation loans
(channeled through the bank by the national or provincial governments) to the highest,
14.04 prcent per year, for capital construction loans above five years. Since July 1993,
the interest rate on working capital loans for township enterprises has been 7.92 percent
per year for loans under three months, 9.0 percent per year for loans under six months and
10.98 percent per year for loans of more than six months. Development loans under three
years attract an interest rate of 12.23 percent per year, while those above three years are
liable for 13.86 percent per year.
2.27        The provincial governments have an understanding with the banks [(ABC
and others, such as People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC)] that the banks would
support the project through provision of loans for working capital required by the project's
agroprocessing enterprises and that the Bureau of Finance (BOF) with its network of
offices in the project area would be responsible for onlending and recovery of project
funds. Although BOF has some lending experience, there is evidence that their services
can be made more effective through training tailored to the needs of the project. Training
of BOF staff working for the project would be financed under the project.
G. INFRsmucTm:
2.28        Transport. Transportation of farm produce and processed products is not
considered to be a problem in Liaoning or Jilin Provinces. Road standards are generally
good and the region has adequate railway connections to Harbin, Dalian, Tianjin and
Beijing.
2.29        Most of the processing factories under the project have access to good depots
at local railway facilities and some have dedicated railway sidings within the factory
premises. The northem project areas have access to river port facilities, which are under
expansion, at Da An in Jilin Province. The southern project areas have port access (at
Dalian, Yingkou, Jinzhou, Qinhuangdao, etc.).



- 16 -
2.30        Power Supply. The North China Power Grid (NCPG), which would
provide all electrical main-supply to the project area, is currently undergoing a major
upgrade. The Northeast China Network (NECN) operates at 500 kilovolts (kV) and covers
provinces north of Beijing as wel as the metropolitan cities of Beijing, Tianjin and
Tangshan. This network would supply all of the project components in both Liaoning and
Jiln. The Power Bureau have confirmed their commitment to provide all components of
the project with adequate power supply to ensu  full utilization of plant and equipment.
H. DE=GN CoNDEAnoNs
2.31        Liaoning's proposals have been desged to take into consideration its steady
loss of agricultural land to nonagricultural uses and its endowment of a long coastline with
good fishery resources and potential for shellfish and shrimp production. Project strategy
would be to invest in land reclamation and improvement. Crop diversification (from corn
to wheat and paddy) on the reclaimed saline-alkaline land would call for timely irigation
and proper drainage facilities to evacaate leached salts and other minerals from the fieds
to natural water bodies at environmentally acceptable quality standards.   Further
investments are needed to fully raise crop yields in these low-lying and saline-alkaline
areas and optimize the use of incremental crops and by-products for livestock production
and processing.
2.32        Jiln's proposals have been designed to optmize retums from investment by
combining assistance to crops, livestock and agop sing to obtain productivity gains
and rural incomes, takdng into consideration its special problems arising from an increasing
surplus of com production and its long cold winters limiting crop production to one season
in most counties. Project strategy would be to encourage diversification to other crops
such as wheat or paddy where irrigation is available or can be provided at affordable cost,
and to stabilize maize yieds in areas prone to waterlogging through provision of drainage
facilities. In addition, increased use of corn as livestock feed and in industry would have
to be further promoted.
L WoMEN IN AGmcumuRAL DEvEpmMT
2.33        The project would target women farmers as beneficiaries by supporting small
livestock production, such as that of geese, rabbit and pigs. These activities do not require
heavy physical strength but yield high return. Female-headed households are targeted by
the project as priority beneficaries. These single-income households have limited assets
for collatel, hence less access to credit, inputs and other production means, and are
generally poorer than male-heded households. The Women's Pederation at the village
level would work very closely with the Project Management Office (PMO) in identiffying
female-headed households.



- 17 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. ftoEC ODECrVE
3.1         The major objective of the project is to assist Liaoning and rluin Provinces
in their agricultural development plans, which aim to increase agricultural production,
farmers' incomes and rural employment by boosting the productivities and marketability
of agriculture, horticulture, livestock, aquaculture and agroindustries in the project areas.
The project would (a) improve productivity of existing low-yield farmland by expanding
irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) develop unutilized wastelands for rice production;
(c) introduce soil and water conservation; (d) develop marginal highlands for fnrit
production; (e) provide a complementary package of farm inputs, agricultural support
services, training and technical assistance; (f) develop intertidal areas for aquaculture
production; (g) support livestock production, processing and support services; (h) expand
agroProcesing activities utilizing available raw materials; and (i) strengthen research,
extension and environmental protection programs.
B. PRoncEr DEscRrnroN
3.2         The proposed project would be composed of seven components:
(a) Irrigation and Drainage. The project would reclaim wastelands for paddy
cultivation, convert low-yield com areas into irrigated wheat, develop
saline-allaline land for production of flax for seeds, and solve waterlogging
problems by financing investment in construction and improvement of low-
lift surface irrigation and drainage networks and installing pumping stations
and sinking wels to provide additional water.
(b) Soil and Water Conservation. The project would finance investment in the
construction of check dams, gully head protectors, intercepter channels and
associated cross-drainage works; afforestation with larch and poplar and
establishment of orchards with irrigation water supplied by small reservoirs
and wells, and the establishment of appropriate ground covers.
(c) Field Crop Development. The project would finance farm inputs, support
farmer groups to purchase farm machinery, improve management and
facilities of farm machinery stations and strengthen crop extension services.
(d)   Orchard Development.  The project would support development of
marginal lands for orchards, improvement of existing orchards of apples,



- 18 -
pears, apricot and apple-pears (pinguoli) and finance construction of fruit
cold stores.
(e)   Livestock Development. The project would provide for the integrated
production and processing of cattle, sheep, rabbits, deer, pigs and geese and
strengthen livestock support services.
(f)   Aquaculture Development. The project would finance the development of
low-lying mudflat wastelands for shrimp, shellfish and river crab
production. It would also finance construction and equipment for hatcheries
and cold stores.
(g)   Agroproceulng.  The project would finance the construction and
rehabilitation of various agroprocessing and agroindustrial facilities that
utilize agricultural outputs or by-products. These include plants to produce
corn starch, industrial alcohol, gelatin, juice, edible oil, paper (from straw
and dogbane), textiles, and leather.
3.3         The proposed project would also strengthen overall project management,
research and extension, and the environmental protection program by providing equipment,
technical assistance and training.
C. DErAILED FEAURES
Irrigation and Drainage Component
3.4         The primary constraints limiting the improvement of agricultural productivity
of existing farmland are lack of irrigation water in low-yild farmland, poor drainage in
waterlogged areas and lack of important agricultural inputs in both areas. In Liaoning, the
project would provide for reclamation of 6,200 ha of saline-alkline wasteland for paddy
production and conversion of 21,300 ha of rainfed com land to irrigated wheat. In Jilin,
the project would provide for improvement and expansion of existing irrigation schemes
covering 8,000 ha, conversion of 2,000 ha of rainfed com land to irrigated wheat and
provide drainage facilities for 11,500 ha of waterlogged areas (Annex 1, Tables 9-10).
3.5         Reclamation of Slfine-Alkaline Wasteland (Liaonlng). The project would
reclaim 6,200 ha of saline-alkaline wasteland in seven counties in Liaoning for paddy
production, with command areas ranging from 167 ha in Tieling to 1,333 ha in Zhangwu.
The worlks would include: (a) two low-lift pumping stations with a total power of 110 kW
to irrigate 367 ha; (b) 567 tubewells-30-70 m deep with average discharges of 80 to
160 m3/hr-to irrigate 5,667 ha with a command area averaging 10 ha per tubewell;
(c) gravity irrigation for 133 ha; (d) installation of 80 km of water-saving pipes covering
an area of 667 ha; (e) drainage facilities to ensure paddy cultivation on a long-term basis;
and (f) land leveling and deep plowing. The two pumping stations would be built
downstream from the Xiapozi reservoir in Kangping county. A total of five pumps would



- 19 -
be installed with delivery capacity of 1.1 m3/s. Main canal and branch canals would be
also constructed to deliver water to the reclaimed areas.
3.6        Conversion of Dryland to Irrigated Wheat (Liaoning). An area of
21,300 ha of low-yielding and sand-erosion-susceptible land would be converted from dry-
farmed corn to irrigated wheat in 10 Liaoning counties with command areas ranging from
1,333 ha in Zhangwu to 4,000 ha in Heishan county. The works would include: (a) 1,545
deep tubewells (40-70 m deep, discharging 80-160 m3/hour to an average command area
of 12.5 ha), of which 1,506 would be equipped with electrical motors and 39 with diesel
motors and 370 shallow tubewells (10-30 m deep, discharging 40-60 m3/hour to an average
command area of 7 ha) equipped with diesel motors; (b) 452 open wells (10-20 m,
discharging 20-40 m3/hour to an average command area of 4 ha), of which 394 would be
equipped with diesel motors and 58 with electrical motors; (c) 606 km of water-saving
pipes covering an area of 5,053 ha; (d) adequate drainage to ensure sustainable operation
of farms and to provide for a second crop in the wet season; and (e) land leveling.
3.7         Song Qi Irrigation Scheme (Jilin). Under this scheme the total area to be
developed would be 3,590 ha (including a 1,745 ha command area for the first-stage
pumping station and a 1,845 ha one for the second-stage pumping station). It would newly
irigate 2,660 ha and improve irrigation on 930 ha. An intake and first-stage pumping
station have already been constructed on the left bank of the Second Songhua River. The
main and secondary drains have also been constructed. The farm-level drainage networks
would not be included in the project but would be financed by the government from other
funds. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Jilin would construct thefarn-level
drainage networia related to the Songqi irrigation scheme in accordance with construction
plans satisfactory to IDA.
3.8         Project works would include: (a) the replacement of the second-stage
pumping station (now dilapidated) with five pumps with total capacity of 775 kW with
pumping capacity of 4.6 m3/s and head of 7.7 to 8.6 m; (b) several structures on the two
main canals; (c) secondary amnals and their irrigation networks; (d) gates and 180
structures on the secondary irrigation canals; and (e) additional small structures (about
1,500) to complete the already existing main and secondary irrigation and drainage
networks.
3.9         Song Po Irrigation Scheme (Jilin). The Song Po irrigation area, which is
located on the right bank of the Second Songhua river, requires three levels of pumping
due to the topography. The water from the river is pumped into a main canal, with the
excess channeled into a natural receiving pond from where four second-stage pumping
stations lift water to command areas. At the end of the main canal associated with two of
these secondary pumping stations, two third-level pumping stations lift the water to the
remainder of the command area. In addition, a secondary first-stage pumping station,
located about 1 kam downstream from the new pumping station, lifts water from the
Songliao river and irrigates 380 ha. This station and the secondary and tertiary pumping
stations are all in bad condition and will have to be replaced.



- 20 -
3.10       The total area to be irrigated under this scheme would be 4,500 ha
(improved 3,200 ha and new 1,300 ha, of which 400 ha is now wasteland and 900 ha dry
farming land) including 180 ha irrigated directly from the first-stage pumping station. The
project works for this scheme would include (a) a renovated first-stage pumping station
with two pumps with a total capacity of 310 IW; (b) replacements for the existing second-
and third-stage pumping stations with 13 pumps with total capacity of 1,355 kW; (c) two
new pumping stations, one each at the second- and third-stages with a total of five pumps
with capacity of 435 kW; (d) improvements on 38.3 Ikm of main and submain canals and
several new structures; (e) six new main and submain canals with a total length of 10.6
kin; (f) 154 new branch and latvral canals with a total length of 190 klm; (g) improvements
on 15 main drainage channels with a total length of 26 kin; (h) 133 new drainage channels
with a total length of 180 kIm; and (Q) 520 small structures.
3.11        Dam Safety. In Jflin, Song Qi and Song Po irrigation schemes would be
irrigated from releases of Fengman Reservoir. This reservoir is very important source of
hydroelectric power in the Northeast of China. It is well maintained and inspected
regularly for safety. Since it would be the source of irrigation water for the two irrigation
schemes in Jilin, the PMO would provide a periodic inspection report for IlDA's review.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that dams and reservoirs supplying the irrigation
systems under the project would be maintained and inspected periodically in accordance
Mth sound engineerng practice, under arrangements satufactory to IDA.
3.12        Conversion of Rainfed Dryland to Irriated Wheat. An area of 2,000 ha
of dry-farmed corn would be converted to irrigated wheat in Fuyu county using
groundwater. Well fields would be developed by installing a total of 200 electrically
driven deep tubewells to irrigate wheat. These wells would have command areas averaging
10 ha each, would be 60-80 m deep and would discharge at an average 50 to 80 m3lhour.
The area to be irrigated would be distributed evenly among 10 townships of Fuyu County
(200 ha each). A well development revolving fund would be established with the proceeds
from repayment of loans made for wells and used for new wells and water-saving pipes
(para. 4.13).
3.13        Drainage Improvement to Waterlogged Areas In Wazhonggao and
Huajia ,lln). The project would improve drainage in two waterlogged areas covering
11,500 ha (7,700 ha of existing systems and 3,800 ha of new areas) in the Wazhonggao
and Huajia areas located on the left bank of the Xinkai river in Nong An county. In the
Wazhonggao area, drainage improvements would provide protection against 1:10 years
flood for about 6,500 ha (3,770 ha by pumping and 2,730 ha by gravity) and in the Huajia
area for about 5,200 ha (2,900 ha by pumping and 2,300 ha by gravity). The works under
the project would include (a) three pumping stations in Wazhonggao with eght pumps and
a total capacity of 940 kW; (b) five pumping stations in the Huajia area with 13 pumps and
a total capacity of 700 kW; (c) improvements in the existing drainage system; (d) 205 km
of new drainage networks (106 kan primary and secondary drains); and (e) about 710
struct    in the dminage networks.



- 21 -
3.14        The project would provide some training facilities for training and would
finance foreign training, study tours and 4 man-months of technical assistance to improve
data collection, processing and analysis relating to surface and groundwater resources.
This data would be used in water resource management plan. The Liaoning PMO would
provide a report on groundwater monitoring and assessment in the different project areas
during the period May I to April 30 by October 31 of each year. An assurance to this
effect was obtained at negotiations.
Soil and Water Conservation
3.15        The project would provide funds for implementing engineenng and
biological measures to conserve soil and water in 11 micro watersheds located in
Shuangyang county of Changchun Prefecture, Jilin Province. The engineering measures
would consist of building check dams 1/ (550), gully head protectors (145), interceptor
channels (1,181) and associated cross-drainage structures (12). Biological measures would
consist of planting larch, poplar and fruit trees. In order to provide adequate water for the
growth and maintenance of these trees, catchment dams would be built to create small
reservoirs (30) and, in addition, a small number of deep tubewells (10) would be drilled.
Water would be pumped to upper-level storage ponds from these reservoirs and wells, and
the fruit trees would be irrigated by gravity from these ponds. One of the micro
watersheds would be selected to serve as a model watershed for the farmers of the area for
knowledge and methodology. Successful implementation of soil and water conservation
measures and the resulting benefits would be transferred to other farmers in the county
from the model watershed. Funds would be provided to support the initial operation of
this (pilot) model watershed.
3.16        Larch trees would be planted on 2,195 ha of sparsely forested wasteland
and poplar trees would be planted on 305 ha of gully-eroded areas. A total of 14,487,000
larch seedlings and 2,745,000 poplar seedlings would be planted. Terracing and planting
of cover crops would also be undertacen by farmers to minimize soil erosion. Pinguoli
would be planted in 2,000 ha with 1,200,000 seedlings at a density of 600/ha. The
seedlings would be purchased from other growing areas. Irrigation would be provided by
water from tubewells and small reservoirs.
3.17        The small dams and drainage failities would be constructed with labor
provided by local farmers under the direction of the water conservancy bureaus of the
counties and Changchun Prefecture. Planting of larch, poplar and fruit trees would be
carried out by contracting households. Funds would be provided to train participating
farmers in the construction of small engineering sfruct, orchard planting and
management, soil and water conservation, fish production in reservoirs, etc. Training
would be carried out in three ways: running a model watershed through direct
management by the Shuangyang Small Valley Development Company to be set up under
this project; training of personnel through visits to other successful watershed management
I/   The chwk dams wold typially be about 8-m long and 2-m high. Top width would be 1 m and
bottom width would be S m.



- 22 -
projects in China (such as those in Guangdong); and by training courses to be conducted
in the county itself. Both farmers and technical personnel would receive training. Such
training would be in addition to that provided by existing agricultunl extension services.
Field Crop Development
3.18        The major constraints to increased production in the project counties are the
lack of fertlizer, agricultural machinery and crop support servces. The project would
finance about 14,000 tons of incremental fertilizer (urea 7,200 tons, DAP 5,500 tons and
sulfate of potash 1,400 tons) for Liaoning and would provide 14,400 tons of incremental
fertilizer (urea 7,300 tons, DAP 5,700 tons and sulfate of potash 1,400 tons) for Jilin to
be used in irrigated paddy and wheat cultivation over the five-year project implementation
period. Ferdlizer would be procured by the project and sold to the farmers in the project
areas. A rewvlzng fAid would be established with sales proceeds and used to procure
agricultural inputs, operated in accordance wuth procedures satfactory to IDM  (pam.
4.13). An assurance to this cfect was obtained at negotiatons.
3.19        To facilitate the preparation of large pieces of land within limited time
Periods, the project would support farmer groups in purchasing tractors and farm
implements. The proposed components would provide 495 tractors (80 hp) with
implements for farmer groups (tractor teams) in 250 selected villages in Jihn and 189
tactors (62 sets of 80-hp tractors and 127 sets of 25 hp) and farm implements in Liaoning;
new equipment, tools and fuel storage/supply facilities; improvements to four county-level
fuel storage and supply stations (in Yushu, Nong An, Dehui and Changchun Counties); and
improvements to 28 existing township-level machinery shop/fuel stations by improved
training for service station managers, mechanics and drivers through provision of additional
training equipment for sdected farm-machinery training schools in three counties (Yushu,
Nong An and Dehui).
3.20        In addition, the project would provide seeds, ferdlizer, storage facilities,
training and transportation to support the cultivation of eight species of medicinal plants
on 1,333 ha in Kazuo county. The project would also support the development of about
992 ha of seed production base for flax (mainly selected variety Heiya 6') in Qian An
county. The seeds to be supplied to farmers (on about 4,000 ha) would be used for the
production of about 12,800 tons of flax for processing in a factory to be financed under
the project.
3.21        The project would strengthen crop support services in Liaoning by providing
trning equipment and vehicles for eight selected CATECs in Changtu, Kangping, Faku,
Zhangwu, Heizhen, Liaoyang, Dengta and Tai An Counties and financing for a five-year
program of local training on irrigated paddy and wheat cultivation practces for extension
staff, farmer technicians and farmers. In Jilin, the project would strengthen 13 TATESs,
which would be involved in the proposed paddy irrigation development area (three
townships in the Song Po and Song Qi areas) and the wheat irrigation development area
(10 townships in Fuyu county). For the three TATESs in the paddy irrigation area, the



- 23 -
project would provide training facilities, audiovisual sets and soil testing equipment. The
project would also support the fertilizer blending facility at Yushu CATEC to formulate
fertilizer to meet specific crop and soil requirements. In addition, research funds would
be provided for adaptive trials. Assurances were obtained at negorianons that the PMO
would submit annual research plans to IDA for revew by October 31 of each year for the
subsequent year. For the 10 TATESs in the Fuyu wheat irrigation area, the project would
finance soil and seed testing equipment. Further, the project would finance local training
on irrigated paddy and wheat cultivation practices for extension staff, farmer technicians
and farmers. Training would also include courses on pest management.
Orhard Development
3.22       in Liaoning, the project would finanee new orchards and improvement of
existing ones covering a total area of 15,400 ha comprsing apples (11,257 ha), pears
(1,333 ha) and apricots (2,850 ha). The new planting (6,183 ha) would be undertaken in
low hilly areas with a plant density of 750 plants/ha. New planting of apples in Nanshan
farm would adopt the advanced technology of growing apples on dwarf and semidwarf
clonal root stocks, so that the trees would have a high density (750 plants/ha) and early
output. New plantings of pears in Beizhen would be with 'Ya Li' cultivars with
pollinators. New apricot plantings in Yixian (with a density of 750 plants/ha) would
produce fruit for the fresh market, while new plantings of apricots in Beipiao and Lingyuan
be designed to produce apricot kernels, to be used in food, medicinal and industrial
applications. Improvement of existing orchards is generally carried out by providing
irrigation facilities for apples and pears. Top grafting would be carried out in young apple
orchards (3-6 years old) that have low quality varieties by substituting Red Fuji' clones
(Nagafu, Akefu).
3.23       The project would also finance the purchase of farm inputs (7.3 million
budded plants, 12,680 tons urea, 5,390 tons DAP, agrochemicals, and hired labor), the
construction of irrigation facilities, and the acquisition of small machinery and tools.
Funds would also be provided for training farmers and technicians. To support marketing
activities, the project would finance construction of two cold storage facilities in Liaoning
Province, one of 1,500-ton capacity for Fuji apples, located at Dataishan State Farm
(Suizhong county) and the other of 1,000-ton capacity for pears, located in Datun Town
in Haicheng County.
3.24        In Jilin, the project would finance the establishment of 5,000 ha of new
orchards of pear, pinguoli variety distributed in hilly areas of Lishu county (3,334 ha) and
Gongzhuling county (1,666 ha), where climate and soil conditions favor this pear type and
are most suited to obtain the best quality fruit. The land would be allotted to about 3,400
households on contract, each with 1.47 ha. The new orchards would be planted in spring
and would have a density of 600 plants/ha. The rootstock would be the common well-
adapted wild pear (p. ussurcensis). Specifically, the project would provide inputs
(seedlings, fertilizer, agrochemicals, irrigation facilities, equipment and tools) and services.
Farm equipment would include 2,500 shallow tubewells (20-30 m deep, delivering



- 24 -
8 m3l/hour powered by electric or diesel motors), and 6,800 sprayers at the rate of two per
household consisting of one high-pressure and one shoulder sprayer.
3.25        In addition, the project would also fund the purchase of 10 vehicles and 15
12-hp tractors. Funds have also been provided for (a) training one person in each
participating family for two days two times a year for five years; and (b) training county,
township and village technicians at the Institute of Pomology, Gongzhuling and the Institute
of Horticulture, Jilin Agricultural University-S0 county technicians to be trained twice a
year, each time for seven days; 40 township techniians trained twice a year, each time
for eight days and 220 village technicians trmined four times a year, each time for five
days. To support extension and training activities, the project would finance experimental
and demonstration plots (5 ha of pinguoli) in the Jilin Agricultural Institute of Pomology
in Gongzhuling, covering the cost of staff (four horticulturists, one technician and six field
workers), equipment (tubewells and soil analysis equipment) and the establishment and
management of orchards. Two demonstration orchards of 2 ha each, one in Gongzhuling
and the other in Lishu county, would be established with the objective of investigating and
demonstating proper plant pruning and management for early-bearing, plant densities and
pruning practices, fertizer application intensities, pollination methods, pest management,
fruit maturity, packaging and storage.
Livestock Development
3.26        Cattle Fattening. In Liaoning, the project would finance the purchase and
fattening of about 33,060 cattle annually by 6,612 households (5 cattle/household) in 10
counties-Tieling, Changtu, Xifeng, Faku, Kangping, Fuxin, Zhangwu, Kezuo, Longcheng
and Liaoyang. Credit would be provided for the construction of a cattle shed, a feed
storage facility and a green silage pit. Groups of up to 30 farmers would collectively
purchase a corn stover chopper under the loan package. First-year costs of feed
concentrate would be incorporated into the investment cost. In rilin, the project would
support 6,000 farmers from Changchun prefecture and 1,000 farmers from Fuyu county
to fatten three cattle annually, by financing the purchase of three yearling cattle per unit,
and the construction of a cattle shed, a feed store, a maize stover chopper and the first
year's worling capital requirement. These farmers would generate sufficient income to
fatten an additional three cattle per year by the end of the project. Feeder cattle for these
households and those mentioned in paras. 3.25 and 3.26 would be purchased pardy in the
counties concerned and partly in neighboring counties and Inner Mongolia. Tentative
contracts totaling about 50 percent of total feeder cattle requirements have already been
signed by the project counties with suppliers in Inner Mongolia.
3.27        Cattle Breeding. In Liaoning, the project would finance the supply on
credit of about 6,720 breeding cows to an estimated 2,240 households in Kangping, Dengta
and Yixian counties. A total of 747 farmers selected across the participating counties/cities
would each receive three in-calf heifers or second-calving cows in the first year.
Tereafter, 747 farmers would join the scheme in both the second and third years. Credit
funds would also be provided for a cow, a feed shed, a silage pit, and a stover shredder.
Feed and animal-health costs for the first year would also be financed.



- 25 -
3.28       Cattle Breeding and Fattening. In the two provinces, a total of 13,500
smnallholder farmers from eight counties would be provided with credit for the purchase
of 40,500 pregnant heifers or second-calving cows, construction of cattle shed, feed store,
a green silage pit and a motorized stover chopper and working capital to cover operating
costs of the first year. This program would be implemented during the first two years of
the project. To support the cattle breeding program, the project would finance the
improvement of the Artificial Insemination (Al) system in both provinces (para. 3.43).
3.29       Feedlots. In Siping prefecture (Jilin), the project would finance 180 feedlot
units, each managed by a group of 5-6 farmers to fatten 30 cattle in a 180-day fattening
period and turn out 60 fattened cattle per year. These units would get credit for the
purchase of one batch of 30 cattle and the feeding and animal health cost for 180 days
along with credit for the construction of the cattle shed, feed store, silage pit and a
motorized stover chopper to be shared among 5-6 units. These programs would be
implemented during the first two years of the project.
3.30       Sheep Breeding. Five thousand farmers from four villages in Changling
and 1,000 households in Fuxin would be provided each with 25 ewes, construction of the
sheep shed and a green silage pit and working capital to cover the feeding, breeding and
health costs for the first year of operation. These farmers would build up flocks of 80
ewes by the ninth year and stabilize at that level. The sheep production program would
be supported by a sheep AI station using imported rams and ewes and equipped to produce
deep frozen semen and provide quality AI service to farmers. Field units will also be
equipped to provide more effective extension service to sheep farmers. In the same
county, the project would improve about 27,300 ha of degraded grassland in about 50
vWilages. Pasture rehabilitation would be introduced after the village has shown its ability
to control overgrazing and reduce the number of animals. Both partial rehabilitation and
total renovation would be practiced. The pasture would be funded through a project loan
to the village, which would be repaid through a grazing fee and the sale of hay by the
village community. The improvement works would be carried out by the Grassland
Improvement Station, and the project would upgrade the station with machinery and
equipment. The project would also equip the station with the necessary means to monitor
the condition of pasture in the region as an early warning system for overgrazing.
3.31       Nucleus Rabbit Stud. A nucleus stud stocked with imported breed lines
is proposed for Chaoyang City. The stud would include a rabbit house, growing-out pens,
a feed warehouse and office accommodations. The stud would be enclosed by a
200 m-long security wall. Equipment would include rabbit hutches and cages and water,
power and heat generation and distribution systems. Imported breeding stock would
include 200 females and 50 males. Working capital would cover the feed and health costs
for the first year.
3.32        Rabbit Production. The project would support two rabbit production
programs in Changtu and Jianping Counties, Liaoning Province. The Changtu program
would include 650 households producing 250,000 finished meat rabbits annually. In
Jianping County, 2,275 farmers would participate, producing 850,000 head per year.



- 26 -
Partcipating farmers in Changtu and Jianping would be provided with 3 bucks and 15
does, a production house, rabbit hutches, feed and water troughs and working capital
covering the first year's production costs. In both counties, 10 commercial stud farms
would be established. In Changtu County these would be owned by specialized
households, each having 30 does and 6 bucks. In Jianping County, the rabbit studs would
be owned by farm cooperatives. Each would be equipped with 100 does and 20 bucks.
Farmers would be provided credit for breeding stock, a production house, cages, water and
feeding troughs and a fence, together with working capital covering the first year's
production cost.
3.33       Deer Stud. A deer stud housing 500 breding females and 100 pilose
antler-producing stags would be established on a 2.5 ha site near Xinxiang Township,
Xifeng County. The project would support the purchase of breeding stock and the
construction of sheds, a feed store, a feed processing room, a forage store, four silage pits,
an antler processing room, an office block, staff accommodation, a canteen, a power
substation and a guard room. Boreholes would be drilled, a perimeter fence constructed
and an access road provided. Equipment for antler processing, feed milling and electrical
and water distribution would be financed, together with miscellaneous veterinary and
animal husbandry equipment. Transportation would include two 5-ton trucks and a 70-hp
tractor. Worling capital would be provided to cover incremental vanable costs during the
first three production years.
3.34       Deer Production. About 150 smallholder deer farms would be established
to absorb the production from the Xinxiang deer stud firm. Each farm would receive
credit for the construction of a holding pen, a silage pit, an animal husbandry lit, two does
and two stags, together with worling capital to cover the first year's operating costs. The
project would also support 600 smallholder farmers from the poor families in Shuangyang
county to start deer farms with two stags and two does to build up a herd of six stags and
three does. Credit would be provided for the purchase of the four deer, constuction of
the shed and worling capital to cover the feeding and animal health costs during the first
year. The farmers would be given a grace peiod of three years to enable them to build
up the herd to generate sufficient income to repay the loan.
3.35       Goose Breeding. The project would finance the establishment of a goose
hatchery in Bamiancheng Township, Changtu County, comprising goose breeding houses,
a goose nucleus flock shed, a hatchery, an egg-handling room, a feed store and an office.
A waste burner and a manure oxidization-reduction pond system would be provided for
waste disposal. A pond would be constructed inside the compound for water-plant
production and goose grazing. Equipment proposed for funding would include incubators
and sterilizers, feed and water troughs, cages, feed processing and distribution equipment,
electrical supply, motors, a stand-by generator, water pumps, shed cleaning equipment, and
office equipment. Funds would also be provided for the purchase of a 5-ton truck for feed
supply. The breeding center would be stocked with 16,500 breeding geese purchased with
project funds. Working capital provided would cover the first year's feed and veterinary
expenses. Most of the goslings would be sold outside the county, and the hatchery would



- 27 -
therefore not replace the current cottage industry, which provides a small but important
supplementary income to women.
3.36       Goose breeding and fattening is proposed as an expansion of the Changtu
County goose breeding program. Seven geese and one drake would be provided on credit
to 5,500 households in Changtu County and 3,500 households in Zhangwu County.
Participating farmers would be expected to provide all roughage inputs and family labor,
supervise the daily grazing of the birds, construct a night pen, purchase the breeding geese,
concentrate feedstuffs and veterinary services on credit. An identical package has been
agreed for Wufeng Township, also covering 4,500 households, in support of the Wufeng
goose slaughter and down processing enterprise. A further package would involve 10,000
smallholder farmers from Nong An County, Changchun Municipality. Each household
would produce 50 eggs and 110 fattened geese per year at full production. The farmers
would hatch the goslings in their own households and raise them for five months, mostly
grazed during the summer months to be ready for slaughter during October/November.
This is a high-return investment, and the farmers would be able to pay back the loan in
two years, after which the funds could be recycled.
3.37       Pig Fattening. An American joint venture company is being formed to set
up a pig abattoir with 600,000 head/year capacity and to rehabilitate an existing feed mill.
The piglets provided to farmers would be a three-way cross between the Landrace, the
Large White and the local Jilin Black sow. Thirty percent of the piglets would be
produced at the joint venture's own breeding farm, the remainder would be contracted to
specialized households. The contracts with the breeding and faitening households will
provide guaranteed input and finished-product prices and are renewable for the next
fattening period. The project would support 2,500 smallholder farmers from Gongzhuling
Municipality with credit to construct pig sheds, a feed shed and perimeter fencing to fatten
60 pigs in a period of six months and turn out 120 finished pigs per household per year.
The program would be implemented during the first two years of the project. A livestock
revolving fund would be established with the proceeds from repayment of loans made for
livestock development and used for new livestock production activities (para. 4.13).
Livestock Prcessing
3.38        Cattle Abattoir. In Liaoning, the project would finance one 30,000 head/
year cattle abattoir and a 600-ton cold store in Changtu County on the site of an existing
rundown slaughterhouse, which would be parially demolished to accommodate the new
plant. The building would include a slaughter and processing floor, a blast freezer, a
freezer store, a quarantine room and a holding yard. Supporting infrastructure would
include utility rooms, a storeroom, an office and a wastewater treatment unit. The access
road would be reconditioned and asphalt surfaced and an existing railhead would be
extended. Equipment would include a complete mechanized slaughter line, a processing
line, freezing equipment, laboratory equipment, a boiler, air-conditioning equipment, and
electrical, water and steam  supply and distribution systems.  Offices and staff
accommodation would be furnished. Equipment would also be provided for the cattle shed
and a comprehensive wastewater treatment system. In addition, three 10-ton refrigerated



- 28 -
trucks, three cattle transport trucks of 20-ton capacity and working capital would be
included.
3.39       In rJlin, the project would finance the construction of one new 50,000 head/
year cattle abattoir in Dehui County with a fully imported production line and the
reconstruction of the existing cattle abattoir at Shuangliao to its full 50,000 head/year
capacity using locally provided equipment. Comprehensive wastewater treatment systems
would also be provided for both abattoirs. The Dehui cattle abattoir would come into
production in the third year of the project, while that at Shuangliao will function from the
second year.
3.40        Sheep Abattoirs. Since there is not a single specalized sheep abattoir in
Jilin province, a new 500,000-head/year sheep abattoir and a 1,500-ton cold store would
be established in Changling to service the sheep breeders in the project area and would
come into production by the third year of the project. New construction for the abattoir
would include a sheep slaughter floor, a meat processing workshop (cutting and
packaging), a blast freezer, an office building, a garage, a boiler room and concrete
flooring. A penmeter wall would be constructed together with a comprehensive
wastewater treatment plant. Equipment for sheep slaughter, butchering and packaging
would be supplied, together with a rendering plant, refrigeration equipment, a boiler,
freeze storage equipment, a weighbridge, and wastewater treatment machinery. Air-
conditioning, steam, water and power distribution systems would be provided.
Transportation would be provided through the supply of two 10-ton refrigerated trucks and
two 20-ton livestock transport truckl/triler units. Two forldifts for product transfer and
a van would also be supplied. Working capital provided would cover the first four
months' operating expenses.
3.41        Goose Abattoirs and Down Promeing. In Liaoning, the new Wufeng
Township enterprise would be established on the site of an existing down separation unit.
New construction would include a goose abattoir and processing workshop, a cold store,
a feather drying yard, feather stores, a down washing shop, and a laboratory. An office
and a down product workshop would complement the raw product processing facilities.
Supporting infrastructure would be included. Equipment inputs include complete slaughter
and feather processing systems, a refrigeration system and laboratory resources. The down
product factory would be equipped with cutting, edging and sewing machines. Water,
electrical and heating systems would be provided. Transport would include a vehicle and
two 5-ton trucks. Worling capital would cover the first year's operating cost.
3.42        The project would finance the improvement of the existing goose abattoir
in Nong An, Changchun with a new imported production line for 1.1 million birds per
year to absorb the production of geese in the county as slaughter of geese is linited to
50 days during October/November each year.  The project would also finance
improvements to the raw feather separating factory and the construction of a new down
processing factory to add value to the down produced. A waste processing system would
also be supported.



- 29 -
3.43        Rabbit Abattoir. A collectively owned, 400,000 head/year rabbit and
400,000 head/year geese abattoir would be constructed in Changtu County. The abattoir
would include a slaughter and processing floor, a secondary processing shop, a blast
freezer and a cold store. Supporting services would include the construction of a
laboratory, utility rooms, an office block, a guard room, a staff canteen, a garage,
storerooms, a bicycle shed, an access road and a perimeter wall. The abattoir would be
supplied with a complete slaughter and processing line, meat packing equipment and a
refrigeration system. Water, power, heat and steam generation and distribution systems
would be provided. The product would be transported to market by one 8-ton refrigerated
truck, and an additional 8-ton truck for stock collection and waste transfer would also be
financed. Working capital would be financed to cover the first four months' operating
costs.
Supporti  Services
3.44        The project would strengthen support services including AI, feed quality
control, pasture development and livestock extension. In Changchun City, Jilin Province,
the project would finance the construction of a new Al station, including modest training
facilities. It would also provide a liquid nitrogen (LN) plant, laboratory equipment and the
necessary LN storage and distribution equipment, including an LN transport vehicle with
a mobile tank. For Changchun Municipality, the project would finance the construction
of four county-level semen distribution centers (including a veterinary clinic) and the
equipment for private inseminator networks at the township and village levels (small
containers and Al equipment). A similar setup is foreseen for Siping Prefecture and
18 townships and 182 village inseminators.  Siping Prefecture would also import
eight bulls. In Liaoning province, the project would rehabilitate the existing building in
Shenyang and finance a center with six imported bulls, imported semen and a small
number of embryos, a new LN plant and semen processing and laboratory equipment
there. The Shenyang investment would only cover the main station. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the prices of (a) semen produced by the project's Al stmons
would be gradually increased each year to arrive atfidl cost recovery by June 30, 1998,
and (b) goslings produced by the Changtu hatchery would be charged atfidl cost.
3.45        Extension and Training. The project would support the tension program
in the participating counties in both provinces, paying particular attention to the more
recently introduced productions, such as deer farming, cattle fattening, sheep production
and grassland improvement. In total, it is estimated that about 12,300 farmers would
receive training. Particular attention would be paid to include a high share of women in
the extension effort. The project would finance a video set and a slide projector, a copier
and a vehicle for each participating county. Domestic staff training would cover 220
township livestock extension agents in breeding and fattening techniques, and 330 village
AI technicians, mostly privately operating, in ardficial insemination techniques.
3.46        The overseas staff training in Liaoning would be to observe improved
genetic and AI management schemes for cattle and training in embryo transfers. Julin staff



- 30 -
study tours would be conducted in three separated trips:  to review current sheep
improvement scheme, to get acquainted with treatment of crop residues under cold
temperature and to observe new techniques in fodder production an deer farming.
3.47       Research. The project would finance livestock research under the following
topics: (a) compaison of different grassland improvement techniques (including low
input), an the effect and cost effectiveness of different fertilizer levels and frequencies on
grassland yields. The monitoring of natural and improved pastures in the region (soil,
plant composition and herbage intake); (b) evaluation of performance and quality of
different beef cattle crosses; (c) a study of the nutritive value of maize stover and its
treatment with different sources of urea and ammonia, and optimum utilization of protein
sources in the use of corn stover; and (e) the use of amaranth, especally in goose and
cattle fattening. In addition to the inputs for these specific research projects, the project
would finance the purchase of one vehicle and some laboratory equipment for more general
use. This research program addresses the main technological problems facing livestock
production under the project. Regular involvement of the PMOs in monitoring progress,
to ensure a fast transfer of the results of the results to the project farmers would be
organized.
Aquaculture Development
3.48        Shrimp Culture. The project would rehabilitate in Dawa county about
1,333 ha of shrimp ponds (about 400 ponds), upgrade pumping stations and mechanicaly
excavate existing ponds to a depth of 3 meter (m), with a f d  of I m above the
nominal full water level. The inlet and outlet water control structures would be modified
and upgrded. The pond dikes would have a slope of 1:2.5 and a crown of about 4-5 m.
Water to the growing ponds would be from the sea, supplied totally by pumping into a
rservoir and then to the supply canals. Pumps and other equipment to increase capacity
to 115-140 m3/s would be provided to the pumping stations. Drainage to the sea would
be by gravity flow, and drainage water would not be allowed to mix with inflowing water.
Work boats and utility truckss would be provided.
3.49        Bay Scallop Culture. The proposed project would establish about 725 ha
of scallop fields where sea conditions and tidal currets are favorable, in Xincheng
(375 ha) and Suizhong (350 ha). Scallops would be raised initialy in purse-type, plastic-
screen cages. Final cultivation would be in lantern-type cages suspended in the sea by
rafts made of polyethylene ropes. A total of 14,500 rafts would be constructed, each
supporting 80 breeding cages. Materil for the construction of the rafts would include 8
and 18 mm polyethylene ropes, mending twines, wood stakes, plastic floats and nursing
(purse-type) cages, and two types of growing cages, each with 10 compartments. The
necessary production materials would include around 480 tons of polyethylene ropes of 8
and 18 mm thickness, 22 tons of mending twine, 1,100,000 plastic floats, 2,000,000
nursing and growing cages and 29,000 wooden stakes. The project would also finance 32
transportation boats, udlity trucks, water analysis equipment, storage facilities, office
buildings, and working capital to purchase spats and meet other expenses for one cropping
season. Provision has also been made for site investigation, training and management.



- 31 -
3.50        Hard and Short-Neck Clam Culture. About 13,333 ha of intertidal areas
along the coast would be developed for hard and short-neck clam culture in five counties
(3,333 ha in Dawa, 3,333 ha in Panshan, 3,333 ha in Jinxian, 2,000 ha in Xincheng, and
1,333 ha in Suizhong). The project would finance the preparation of the growing areas
and construction of boundary netting, offices, dormitories, storage facilities and brood
stock ponds. Funds would be provided for the purchase of wood stakes, brood stocks,
laboratory equipment and wallie-tallies. Necessary materials would include polyethylene
netting, wood stakes and brood stocks. The project would also finance a number of work
boats and utility vehicles. Provision has been made for initial investigation, management,
training and working capital until the first harvest.
3.51        River Crab Hatchery. The project would construct a river crab hatchery
of 1,600 ml capacity at Panshan County for the production of 800 kg (200,000 pieces/kg)
of river crab larvae. This would consist of a series of indoor concrete tnks for brood
stock, artemia, and algae culture (total 3,520 mi). The building for the ponds would be
around 2,300 n2, and for a boiler room and an engine room (300 m2). Other civil works
would include a 400-m boundary wall and around 4 km of internal roads. The hatchery
would be equipped with aeration, water-heating pipes, water heaters, pumps, a stand-by
generator, a transformer, electrical supply lines, a freshwater deep well and miscelaneous
equipment. Funds have been provided for the purchase of vehicles, investigation, designs,
management, training, installation of equipment and working capital for one production
cycle. The hatchery wiU operate for three months from March to May. During the winter
months, tanks would be used to winter over brood stock.
3.52        River Crb Culture. The project would develop 134 ha (in 3.3 ha ponds)
for the rearing of river crabs. A part of the ponds would be used to rear the larvae to the
button or juvenile crab (100 pieceslkg) stage, for sale to farmers who are engaged in
growing the button crab to commercial sizes (10 pieces/kg). Some would be stocked in
a reservoir to grow into commercial size. The project would finance pond excavation and
consolidation (40 ponds), supply of 80 inlet and outlet sluice gates, the construction of an
office building, a store, a dormitory and a feed-processing room. Equipment and mateial
to be provided would include pumps and diesel engines (10 sets), four sets of feed-mixing
machinery, and around 40,000 e2 of polyethylene sheeting to line the slopes of the ponds
and reservoir. The project would also finance the purchase of five vehicles and one boat
for use in the reservoir. Provision has been made for site investigation, management,
training and working capital requirements for the first crop.
3.53        Shellfish Hatcheries. The project would finance an expansion of an existing
hatchery by 650 me capacity water body in Suizhong to produce around 200 million scallop
seeds per year. Facilities constucted would include hatcheries, office buildings, other
buildings of around 2,800 m2 in Suizhong for miscellaneous uses, facilities for spat
production and algae (feed) culture, heating and sedimentation tans, mixing and
purification tanks, and water supply, drainage and electrical systems. The project would



- 32 -
also finance the purchase of miscellaneous equipment such as boilers, aerators, heaters, a
generator, a transformer, pumps, piping, laboratory equipment, vehicles, nets, ropes, etc.
Provision has been made for working capital for a one-year production cycle, investigation,
designs, training and management. The hatcheries are expected to operate for about
90 days per year. Some tan would be used for algae culture and to hold brood stock of
scallops and seed clams for the coastal shellfish program.
3.54        Freezing, Cold Storage and Processing Facilies. The project would
fince the estblishment of two fully equipped freezing and cold storage plants, each of
500-ton storage capacity, in Suizhong and Jinxian, and rehabilitate th existing cold store
in Xincheng to intenational standards. Each cold storage facility would be a two-stage
compressed ammonia plant using pumped liquid ammonia for distribution to evaporators
at the low and intermediate pressure sides. Plant operating temperature would be -30°C.
Each facihity would be equipped with a 20-ton/day blast freezer, chill storage, a 500-kg
plate freezer, an ice plant and storge. The main equipment to be installed would be the
low- and high-stage compressors, horizontal intermediate coolers, evaporative condensers,
horizontal ammonia receivers, oil/water separators, cooling towers, air cuains, stand-by
generators, transformers, pumps, an electric-supply control panel, pipes, valves, automatic
control gauges, special tools, accessories, and freshwater supply and drainage systems.
Plant buildings would have a total area of around 4,100 n2, of which around 1,800 m2
would be for the cold store and processing area and the rest for the engine room, office
and miscellaneous service areas. Ihe handling equipment would include aluminum tables,
containers, plastic boxes, trolleys, blast freezing trolleys and trays and weighing scales.
The project would finance the purchase of utility trucks and refrigerated and/or insulated
vehicles. Funds would be provided for investigation and designs, management, training
and working capital.
3.55        Tining. A program of local training would strengthen the skills of farm
technicians, managers, hatchery operators, farmers, and fish processing technicians.
Twenty-day short courses to upgrade skills would be given to approximatdy 1,273
technicians and workers. This would include 100 persons for shrimp production,
200 persons for shellfish production, 40 persons for river crab production, 50 persons for
river crab hatchery, 533 persons for scallop production, 50 persons for scallop hatchery,
and 300 persons for aquaculture handling, freezing and processing. The project would also
finance the upgrading of 26 technicians and would pay for 53 persons on domestic study
tours and 12 persons on overseas study tours. The study tour program would be reviewed
by IDA.
3.56        Research, Extension and Environmental Monitoring.  Although the
research and extension units at the provincial and county levels are adequately staffed by
experienced peonnel, their day-to-day work program and on-farm adaptive research work
and demonstration activities are impeded by the lack of basic laboratory equipment, field
recording instruments, office equipment and vehicles. During the implementation of the
project, continuous monitoring of the coastal environment in the vicinity of the project area
would be necessary. The project would provide laboratory and analytical equipment, field
observation and monitoring equipment, microcomputers, and office equipment and vehicles



- 33 -
to enable the Bureau of Aquatic Products, Marine Research Institute and extension services
to function more effectively and conduct regular monitoring of the environment,
particularly in the project areas.
Agroprocessing Component
3.57        The project would include 14 agroprocessing subprojects (eight in Liaoning
and six in Jilin). Financing would cover expenditures for land purchase, buildings,
equipment, vehicles and training. The project would also provide incremental working
capital for each subproject and investment to mitigate environmental problems (wastewater
and effluent treatment). All agroprocessng subprojects are designed to generate value-
added and employment in the project areas.
3.58        The subprojects in Liaoning are summarized below:
(a)   Dongfangshen Apple Juice Plant. A new plant to process 33,500 tons/
year of apples and pears into 7,500 tons of juice concentrate for export.
(b)   Xincheng Peanut Protein Plant. Construction of a new plant to process
15,000 tons/year of unshelled peanuts into 3,060 tons/year of proteins and
3,520 tons/year of edible refined peanut oil. It would utilize shells and
fibrous residue to produce 10,500 tons/year of ruminant feed.
(c)   Liaoyang Hawthorn Pectase Plant. A new plant to produce 425 tons/year
pectase enzyme from 3,300 tons/year of hawthorn fruit.
(d)   Kaiyuan Hawthorn Processing. Construction of a new plant to process
5,700 tons/year of hawthorn fruit into 8,500 tons of extract concentrate,
beverages and jam.
(e)   Xifeng Wild Mushroom Processing. A new plant to process 2,250 tons/
year of wild herbs and mushrooms into 1,500 tons of preserved products,
mainly for export.
(f)   Kangping Furfural Plant.  Construction of a new plant to produce
1,000 tons/year of furfural, a liquid aldehyde used especially in making
furan or phenolic resins and as a solvent, from 12,000 tons of corn cobs.
(g)   Tai An Dogbane Paper Mill. Construction of a new paper mill to produce
23,000 tons/year of high-strength corrugated (fluted) paper from
16,800 tons/year dogbane and 33,000 tons/year rice straw as a substitute for
imports.
(h) Longeheng Sesame Oil Plant. A new vegetable oil mill to replace an
existing obsolete plant, to process 5,000 tons/year of sesame seed into
2,385 tons of high-grade sesame oil and 2,116 tons of oil cake.



- 34 -
3.59       The subprojects in Jilin are summarized as follows:
(a)   Lishu Anhydrous Alcohol Plant. Construction of a new plant utilizing
135,000 tons of maize to produce 30,000 tons/year of anhydrous alcohol
and 31,500 tons/year of dry grains for export.
(b) Shuangyang Rice Straw Paper Mill. Construction of a new plant utilizing
34,000 tons/year of waste rice straw to produce 17,000 tons of paper for the
corrugated board industry.
(c)   Jhial Tannery and Leather Manufacture. Construction of a new tanning,
leather dressing and garment manufacturing plant to process 1.3 million
skins and hides into 1.65 million m2 of leather.
(d)   Da An Bone Gelatin Plant.  Construction of a new plant to utilize
6,750 tons/year of mixed animal bones to manufacture 750 tons/year of
bone gelatin for various applications in the pharmaceutical, manufacturing
and food industries.
(e) Qian An Flax Textile Mill. Expansion of an existing flax-spinning mill
including new scutching yards, and a flax-weaving mill. The new facilities
would use 12,500 tons/year of raw flax and produce 330 tons/year of yarn
and 1,750 tons/year of flax tow.
(f)   Yushu Modified Starch Plant. Extension of an existing com starch plant
into product diversification by converting 10,000 tons/year of native com
starch into various modified starches.
Institutional Support
3.60        The project would strcngthen the PMO, provide taining and technical
assistance, and support environmental protection programs as follows.
3.61        Project Management Offices. The project would finance construction of
the provincial management offices in Liaoning and Jilin Provinces, equipping them with
furniture, teaching equipment and vehicles. The project would finance an expansion of
existing government buildings to accommodate project offices at the municipal and county
levels. Each of these offices would be equipped with a fax machine, a copier, a computer
and printer, and office furniture. A twin-cab would be provided for each participating
county.
3.62        Training and Technical Assistance. In addition to training programs
already included in each individual component above, the project would provide training
for 510 personnel for short periods in project-related subjects, including engineering
management, financial administraon, accounting, auditing, material procurement, loan
assessment and project appraisal. Overseas waining and study tours would also be financed



- 35 -
for 50 project staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that training would be
carried out in accordance with plans satisfoctory to IDA and the PMO would furnish to
IDA for its review and approval a plan for domestic and overseas training and study tours
for implemenation during the subsequent calendar year by October 31 of each year during
project unplementation. The training plans would provide that participants would be
expected to staff from the project and about 40 percent would be female, and after
training, staff will not be moved to other positions of which they are not tmained.
3.63       Environmental Programs.
(a)   Environmental Monitoring in Bo Sea. The National Marine Environment
Monitoring Center in Dalian assisted Liaoning Province in assessing the
potential environmental impacts of the proposed Bo Sea shellfish
development and the risks to shellfish from the environmental hazards
external to the project. The investment proposed under the project would
not have any negative impacts on the environment but rather is at risk from
the combined effects of petrochemicals and industrial and agricultural
activities in the catchments of the main rivers flowing through Liaoning into
the sea. During appraisal, the proposed project sites along the Wuli River
were rejected. The sites included in the project are free of contamination
and suitable for shellfish production. To minimize the risk of possible
future contamination, an environmental monitoring program would be
inanced under the project. It would be subcontracted to the Liaoning
Marine Monitoring Institute with the supervision of the National Marine
Environment Monitoring Center. The program would include monitoring
and testing for heavy metals, petroleum pollution, biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD), and ammonia/nitrogen. In addition, testing for human
waste contamination (coliform bacteria) in both culture areas and shellfish
is included in the program and provision has been made for monitoring level
of toxic algae, and conditions that give rise to red tide.
(b)   Pesticide Management. The proposed pest management strategy includes
agricultural management techniques, biological management, manual
methods and the use of agrochemicals. The project would strengthen
integrated pest management (IPM) programs, support tWaining and provide
equipment.  The General Station of Plant Protection, Ministry of
Agriculture, would assist in the design of the IPM program. Potential
damage from plant protection chemicals would also be effectively controlled
by various measures. First, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
all agrocheinicals financed under the project would be approved by IDA and
stored, handled, distributed and used in accordance with guidelines
acceptabk to IDA. Second, most of the plant protection chemicals to be
procured under the project are degradable and, in quantities to be used,
would not have significant negative effects on the environment. Spraying
personnel would be trained in safety measures. Third, the IPM approach
would be initiated in a pilot area and gradually extended to other project areas.



- 36 -
(c)   Environment Management and Monltoring Plan for Agroprocessing
Plants. Environmental impact statements have been prepared by the
Provincial Technical Research Institute for review by specialists. The
reports estimated the pollutant loadings (air, water and solid waste) and
made recommendations on treatment systems required to meet relevant
national and provincial emission standards. Each plant has incorporated
wastewater trment in its plan. The optimum treatment systems for liquid
waste in the cold climate were selected during appraisal. In addition, both
provinoes have prepared environmental management and monitoring plans
that will permit the checking of pollution-control designs, supervision of
construction and monitoring throughout the project. Equipment, computers,
training and some operating costs would be provided under the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiatzons that (a) Jilin and Liaoning
provincial environmental protection bureaus (PEPBs) would approve the
final designs of the treatnentfacilitiesfor aU agro- and livestock processing
plants financed under the project prior to constuction and (b) these
enterprises would inplement and maintain effluent monitoring and treatment
systems according to the final designs approved by the PEPBs.
D. STA     OF PREARATIoN
3.64        Preliminary designs have been prepared for all the components.  For
agroprocessing, feasibility studies have been carried out on all of the processing plants, and
conceptual designs are generally at an advanced stage. Detailed plant and construction
drawings would be produced by architects and plant engineers as part of the project, and
provision was made for these activities within the individual plant investment costs.
National or provincial design institutes, which have been identified by the PMO, would be
rsponsible for the development of technical specifications in cooperation with the
tendering agencies.
E. IMPLIMEATnON SCHEDULE
3.65        The project will be implemented over a period of five and a half years.
Irrigation and drainage works, field crop development and livestock would take the full
five years to complete. Orchard development and aquaculture activities would take four
years. Construction and commissioning of the agroprocessing plants would be completed
during the first three years of the project. Detailed designs and preparation for bidding
documents would be prepared under retroactive financing, and international competitive
bidding (ICB) would start after project effectiveness. Each plant has been individually
scheduled.  The proposed schedule is feasible and consemve, considering that
implementing agencies are already established with experienced staff. A detailed
implementation schedule for all components is given in Chart 3.



- 37 -
F. Cosr EsrmAiS
3.66            Total cost of the project is estimated at $382.3 million with a foreign
exchange component of $186.8 million, 49 percent of the total. Project cost does not
include any significant tax element, since civil works and buildings are essentially free of
tax, and imported materials and equipment are exempt from duties. Cost estimates are
based on quantities derived from the preliminary designs (para. 3.64) and from unit prices
currently prevailing for similar construction works and materials in the provinces and from
price lists of local and overseas manufacturers of machinery and equipment. Physical
contingencies, equivalent to $21.5 million, have been included at the rate of 10 percent for
civil works, materials, machinery and equipment and 0 percent for labor and land
acquisitibn/crop compensation. Price contingency estimates total $52.2 million. Price
contingencies, for costs expressed in US dollars, are based on annual intemational price
escalation rates of 3.4, 2.9 and 3.0 percent from 1994 to 1996, and 2.7 percent from 1997
to 1998. Price contingencies for costs expressed in yuan, are based on annual domestic
price escalation rate for all goods and services, except construction and labor, of 10.0, 9.0,
8.0, 7.2 and 6.5 percent from 1994 to 1998. Price contingencies of 20, 12 and 10 percent
for 1994-96 and 8 percent for 1997-98 are used for construction. Price contingencies of
18, 15 and 12 percent for 1994-96 and 10 percent for 1997-98 are used for labor costs.
Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 2.
Table 3.1: PRoJEcr Cosr SummARY
Ym  '00Wua0                    S MC              % PFrign  S TSaw
co,oas,um                LOWa      F-ssip      Toal     L4oca    Fomaiga   Tota    Ecbmaqp  Dans Cogst
Irigation & Dninage      147,416.4  10,1933   255,609.7  16,9444  12,436.0  29,3ta4    423   9.5
FsiW Crop Devlopmat       41,107.9  146.451.0  17,558.9  4,725.0  16,U33.4  21,553.5   73.1  7.0
Orchud Dcvbopmast        155,292.1  106,527.7  263,319.3  17,39.7  12.474.4  30,324.1   41.1  9.5
Soil & Wter Cowervatioa   23,334.5   11,321.9   34,656.4  2,632.1  1,301.4  3,9 335   32.7     1.3
Livesoclk Developmsat    342,274.5  172,34.0  515,07t.5  39,341.9  19,362.5  59,204.4   33.5  19.2
Livestock Procssing      138,316.1  140,934.2  279,250.3  15,t9t.4  16,1993  32,097.7   50.5  10.4
Agroprocessixg           321,911.7  604,912.0  926,323.7  37,0013  69,530.1 106,5313S  65.3  34.5
Aqu-etw  Dsvelopnt        99,3523    77,303.L  177,161.1  11,4773   5,316.1  20,3633    43.6  6.6
Project Manpaes           14,609.4   31,154.0   45,763.4  1,679.2  3,530.9  5,260.2   63.1     1.7
Totg Bane Cow       1.2U.,114 9 1.401.606.9 2.685.r21.8 147.599.4 161.104.2 308fi703.7    2  100.0
Pbysical Coaliecsa        63,354.7  123,315.7  136,670.4  7,212.1  14,174.2  21,456.4   66.1   7.0
Price Caaqnsas           353,375.5  100,630.0  454,005.5  40,617.9  11,566.7  52,14.5   22.2  16.9
Totg Pbruiec C o    170,4.11625.552.6 3,326.397.7 195.499.4 186.U5.1 392.344,6   HA 13.
G. FINCaNG
3.67            Bank Group financing would be an IDA  Credit of SDR  148.5 million
($205 million equivalent) and would cover 54 percent of total project costs. The remaining
46 percent would be financed by provincial, prefecture/municipal and county governments
and beneficaries. The contributions from  each source are as follows:



- 38 -
S million
(a)  IDA Credit                                  205.0
(b)   Provincial, prefecture, municipal and
county governments                          62.6
(c)   Commercial banks                            57.8
(d)   Enterprises and farmers                     56.9
aIl                                   23
3.68       The governments at each level would be responsible for providing
counterpat funding to finance project activities in their junsdictions. These funds would
come from budgetary allocations according to each year's work plans. To ensure that
adequate counterpart funding would be provided in a timely manner, assurances wre
obtained at negotiations that Liaoning and Jilin would provide to IDA for each
municipality, prefecture and county in the project a detailed statement of approved
budgetary allocations by April 30 of each year.
H. PROcuREmEWT
3.69       Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2.
3.70       Works. All the works in the project are too small for ICB. They would
include many small land development and earthworks for irrigation and drainage canals and
shrimp ponds, would be scattred over a wide area and scheduled over the life of the
project. None could be packaged into contracts exceeding about $2.0 milion and would,
therefore, not be of interest to foreign contractors. Approximately 70 percent of the work
(S42.9 million) would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to EDA. The remaining works ($18.2 million), consisting of many
small canals, drains, land development works and minor site preparations, would normally
be done by off-season labor at the village, township and county levels. The works would
be too small (costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract) and widely scattered
throughout the project to be of interest to contractors. They would therefore be undertaken
through force account managed by county engineers in coordination with provincial bureau
staff.
3.71        Goods. Project goods consisting of machinery, equipment, vehicles and
materials are estimated at $210.9 million.  ICB procedures would be used for
agroprocessing equipment, vehicles, large pumps and motors, fertlizers and some of the
construction materials, for a total of $99.5 miDion or 47 percent of all goods. Domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference on ICB equal to 15 percent of the
c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is
less. Passenger vehicles estimated at $0.9 million would be provided by the provincial
governments. Specialized vehicles and equipment, computer and office equipment,
agopr g  equipment (such as an IQF machine), pesticides and livestock supplies up
to a value of $5.4 miDion would be procured under contracts awarded through Limited
International Bidding (LIB). The small pumps, motors, irrigation, aquaculture, and



- 39 -
Table 3.2: PRocuEMENT PROFILE
($ million)
Procurement method
ICB     LCB   Other    NIF    Total
Land acquisition &                  -       -       -       3.6      3.6
crop compensation                                         (0-0)    (0-0)
Works                               -     42.9    18.2      -       61.1
(20.6)   (8.8)           (29.4)
Machinery & equipment             60.0   24.8   28.5        -      113.3
(55.8)  (19.0)  (18.3)           (93.1)
Vehicles                            7.4     -       1.5     0.9      9.8
(6.3)           (1.1)   (0.0)    (7.4)
Materials                         32.1    21.0   34.7       -       87.8
(28.9)  (16.4)  (22.7)           (68.0)
Overseas training & technical       -       -       1.6     -        1.6
assistance                                       (1.6)             (1.6)
Domestic training and research      -       -       5.5     -        5.5
(5.5)            (5.5)
Design, engineering &               -       -       -      33.2     33.2
management                                                (0.0)    (0.0)
Labor                               -       -       -      20.0     20.0
(0.0)    (0.0)
Working capital                     -       -       -      46.4     46.4
(0.0)    (0-0)
Total                         29       AU 87     .0   104       382A3
(91.0)  (56.0)  (58,08   (Q,Ql   05.08
Note: (1) Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the IDA credit,
including contingencies.
(2) NIF: Not IDA-financed.
(3) Other: Other procurement methods include force account for works, direct
purchase and shopping for small equipment and materials, LIB for
specalized vehicles, equipment and pesticides, training and consultant
contracts.



- 40 -
electrical equipment, pipes, farm and livestock tools, small processing equipment, materials
and supplies, costing about $45.8 million (22 percent of all goods), would be dispersed in
location, spread over the project period and subject to continuing after-sale service
requirements to the extent that none of them could be grouped in packages of more than
S200,000 and would therefore be unliely to be of interest to foreign suppliers without a
significant local presence. They would, therefore, normally be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of LCB. Because of small size of the packages (due to varied
requirements and high transport costs), miscellaneous small equipment, supplies,
furnishings and small production inputs costing less than $50,000 per package, and not
exceeding $29 million in aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparisons of price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers
according to local shopping procedures described in the Bank guidelines. Some goods,
such as saplings, seedlings, livestock and aquaculture breeding stock costing about
$30 million would in practice be available from few sources in any particular area, often
because of high transport costs. They may therefore be procured through local shopping
procedures or direct purchase, in the latter case if there is only one source available in the
area. A detailed listing of procurement arrangements for goods can be found in Annx2
Table 5 (see also para. 3.75).
3.72        Training and technical assistance would cost a total of $1.6 million.
Domestic training and research would cost $5.5 million. Employemnt of internaional
consultants would be in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. Land acquisition, crop compensation, administration, engineering, design,
management, labor and working capital, which amount to $103.2 million, would be locally
funded.
3.73        IDA Review. All procurement packages for works and goods in excess of
$500,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review. That would cover about 76 percent of
the works and about 83 percent of the goods by value under ICB and LCB procurement,
and would consist of approximately 135 contracts. Other contracts would be subject to
ex-post review by IDA supervision missions. In addition, considering the large number
of contracts to be procured under LCB procedures, the PMO would use standard
documents approved by IDA for all these contracts. All contracts for consultant services
would be subject to IDA's prior review and approval in accordance to IDA guidelines
(pam. 3.72). The procurement schedule (Chart 4) gives detailed projections on how and
when the 28 large ICB packages for goods would be put to bid. The International
Tendering Company (ITC) of China National International Technical Import and Export
Corporation would be the procurement agent.
L DIBuRsEmES
3.74        Disbursements for construction and agroprocessing equipment, machinery,
vehicles, and all imported items under ICB procurement, would be made at 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost, or 100 percent of the ex-factory price for locally
manufactured items, or 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Disbursements for training, study tours and consulting services would be at 100 percent



- 41 -
of total expenditures. Disbursement against civil works would be 45 percent of total
expenditures for Liaoning and 50 percent for Jilin, excluding costs of construction
materials procured through ICB.
3.75        Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) in
the case of overseas training, study tours and contracts for goods and works each costing
less than $400,000, and work on force account. Disbursements for all work carried out
under force account would be made against statements of physical progress achieved in the
respective sites, at unit prices agreed with IDA at the start of implementation and reviewed
annually. In order to provide for efficient disbursements, the Jiln and Liaoning BOFs
would open Special Accounts in banks acceptable to IDA, with a ceiling of $13.0 million
($7.5 million for Jilin and $5.5 million for Liaoning). Applications for replenishment of
the Special Accounts would be submitted monthly, or whenever the Special Account is
drawn down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. Retroactive
financing of up to $14.5 million would be made against expenditures made between July
15, 1993 and the date of signing of the Development Credit Agreement.
3.76        It is estimated that the project would be completed by December 31, 2000
and that the closing date would be December 31, 2001. Disbursement experience in China
has been favorable and better than the Bank Group average. The project disbursement
profile is essentially in line with that for specific investment loans in China. Estimated
schedules of disbursements are given in Annex 2, Table 6.
J. Accoums A   AuDris
3.77        Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and materials would be
maintained by the county PMOs. These records would be forwarded to the prefecturall
municipal PMOs for submission to the provincial PMOs for review. The provincial PMOs
would be responsible for submitting the provincial project consolidated accounts and
reports to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the provincial PMOs would
maintain consolidated accounts for all components for annual auditing by independent
auditors acceptable to MDA and that the audited accounts together with the auditor's report
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year. The
audited accounts would include the special account and details of withdrawals from the
credit account made on the basis of SOEs and the auditors' opinions as to whether such
withdrawals were for expenditures eligible for reimbursement by IDA. In the case of
SOEs, the audit report would contain a separate opinion by the auditor as to whether the
SOEs, submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. The
State Audit Administration would be acceptable to carry out the auditing of the project,
until independent auditors with qualifications acceptable to IDA are proposed and agreed.



- 42 -
K. ENvIRoNMErAL IMPcAIs
3.78        All project components were envirnmentally screened by technical
specalists from the two Provincial Environmental Protection Bureaus. The screening
reports were reviewed by the Bank and the results were substantially agreed with. The
reports identified components which required further analysis of should be subject to
environmental impact analysis. It was recommended that all agroprocessing components
should be subject of individual EA reports. Additional assessments commissioned covered:
(a) promotion of Integrated Pest Management and improved education and technical
training on agrochemical handling practices for the apple-pear component in Jin Province;
and (b) marine water, sediment and biological quality monitoring requirements to safeguard
proposed aquaculture investments in 1iaoning Province. Both provinces are preparing
en'ronmneal managvnent and montonng plans which will permit design checling for
pollution control systems, construction supervision and performance monitoring for the
duration of the projec. The plans would be submitted to IDA for review by December 31,
1994.
3.79        Some project components would have positive effect on the environment.
Others would generate pollutant emissions which would require management and treatment.
Tne irrigation and drainage component would reduce ill effects of drought, flooding,
waterlogging and salinity on about 48,600 ha. The introduction of soil and water
conservation measures in the 11 micro watersheds would help to stabilize the sandy soil
and improve the quality of the land. Successful implementation would provide a model
for management of soil and water in some other watersheds. The development of
20,000 ha of marginal hillside waselands for fruit would help to control soil erosion and
improve water retentiLon and soil fertility. The increased production of livestock manure
would improve soil stucture and fertlity and help to reduce the amount of chemical
fertilizer used. Possible adverse environmental impacts from agrochemicals and the
effluent discharged from agprocesg plants have been minimized by careful monitoring
and specific programs designed under the project (pam. 3.63).
3.80        The project sites would be sread out in 612 townships and 40 counties of
the two provinces. The project development would be mainly in wasteland, barren land,
farmland or on existing sites. The new land acquired for the project is very small, and
there has been no involuntary resettlement.  Project irgation would be mainly
groundwater development and the rehabilitation of eisting irrigation works, neither of
which need new land. The area of farmland acquired for irrigation is only about 300 ha
and did not contain any houses or other structures. The farmers whose land has been taken
were compensated with the value of three years' lost crops and given new land without
charge. Orchard development would be on marginal hilly land. Aquaculture development
would mainly be in the bay or in low-lying mudflat waste lands in coastal areas. Livestock
development would mainly be in household compounds and would not require additional
land.
3.81        In the agrop ssing and livestock processing, 13 out of 26 factories have
land requirements. Five factories require new land and another eight additional land. In



- 43 -
Jdlin, 64 ha of agricultural land has been purchased at an average price of Y 1,436,600 per
ha. Crop compensation has varied between Y 8,000 and Y 45,000 per ha. In Liaoning,
18 ha has been purchased at an average price of Y 662,700. Crop compensation varied
between Y 10,500 to Y 22,680 per ha. There are no dwellings on the purchased land,
because farmers live in nearby villages away from plant sites. In addition to monetary
payments for the land, the factories would give priority employment to affected farmers
(199 persons in Jilin and 98 persons in Liaoning) as workers. This opportunity to move
from agricultural work to the relative security of full-time industrial employment is
welcomed by the farmers. Letters have been received from each of the county authorities
detailing the area of agricultural land that has been purchased and the number of farmers
who have sold their land in order to provide project agroprocessing sites. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that the Provincial Governments will ensure that any persons
who are involuntarily resettled or whose rights to land are compulsorily acquired as a
resuk of the project development would be provided compensation for assets, logistic
support and relocation assistance.
3.82        The project's two surface irrigation schemes (Song Qi and Song Po schemes)
draw water from the second Songhua River, which eventually flow into an interational
waterway (Heilongjiang River). The Bank staff has made an assessment that the project
would not cause any appreciable harm to other riparians. The two irrigation schemes are
the ongoing schemes. The present water requirement for those two schemes is about
50 million m3, and the additional quantity required after expansion and improvement under
the project would be about 62 million in. The estimated long-term average annual flow
of the Second Songhua River is 17 billion m3, that of the First Songhua River before joint
the Heilongjiang River) is 74 billion m3 and that of the Heilongjiang River before
discharging into the sea is 355 billion m3. The 62 million m3 rquired under the project
would be only 0.36 percent of the Second Songhua River flow and would be negligible for
the First Songhua and the Heilongjiang River. Since the additional water requirement of
the project would be small, it is not expected to have adverse impact on quantity and
quality of water flows to other riparians. However, pursuant to the requirements of OD
7.50, the Chinese Government has notified the relevant ripanan state (Russia) of the
proposed project.



- 44 -
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROtEcr ORGANZTnoN
4.1         The Governments of Liaoning and rJlin Provinces would be responsible for
overall project implementation. Following generally successful experience in similar Bank-
assisted projects currently beng implemented in other provinces of the country, the
provincial governments have adopted a three-level institutional arrangement to implement
the project. This approach will include provincial, prefecture/municipal and county
involvement to ensure efficient execution of the project and coordination of activities with
concemed govenment departments and agencies.
4.2         Project Leading Groups (PLGs). The provincial PLGs will be chaired
by the Vice-Governors responsible for agriculture. They comprised senior officials from
the provincial bureaus of water conservancy, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, planning,
finance and environment protection. Senior staff from ABC, the Women's Federation and
others are also represented in the group. The provincial PLGs would be rsponsible for
formulating project plans and policies, coordinating and monitoring implementation, and
resolving any procedural or legal issues related to funding arrangements and land matters.
They would assume responsibility for ensuring provision of adequate counterpart funds.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Provincial PLGs would be maintained
with composidon and responsibilides acceptable to IDA.
4.3         Project Management Offices (PMOs). The provincial PMOs (PPMOs)
would be staffed with trained and qualified technical, administrative, financial and
management officers and headed by a Director. Most appointments have already been
filled with competent staff seconded from government departments. The PPMOs would
(a) draw up detailed annual work programs and budgets for the project; (b) review and
approve lower-level PMO work plans; (c) monitor the physical and financial progress of
the project; (d) coordinate and supervise project implementation; (e) review and approve
technical specifications for agroprocessing, agroindustry, irrigation and drainage, and the
development of agricultural, livestock and aquatic products; (f) liaise with the central and
provincial agencies regarding project implementation (e.g., procurement, planning, finance,
markceting, etc.); (g) prepare detailed project accounts, arrange audits and write progress
reports; and (h) submit withdrawal applications to IDA. At lower levels the PMOs would
assist agencies or entities involved in implementing project components and would liaise
between the project and various technical and financial institutions that support the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the provinces would maintain the PMOs with
functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA, staffed at all time by qualified and
experienced staff in adequate nwnbers, with arrangements for all technical decisions and
proposals to be revewed by the relevant technical bureaus.



- 45 -
4.4         The provincial technical bureaus (water conservancy, agriculture, livestock
and fisheries) would set up project offices (PO) within their bureaus to originate and
review technical aspects of the project. These POs would review technical standards for
the design, construction, operation and maintenance of project works; oversee the technical
quality of project works; and prepare technical specifications for procurement tenders
under the project.
4.5         A similar structure of PLGs, PMOs and POs would be established in the
prefectures, municipalities and counties participating in the project.
4.6         Technical Committees. Technical committees have been established with
specalists from all components to provide annual, independent feedback to the
govemment, as well as new technology to farners. An annual meeting would be held
altermating between Jiln and Liaoning.
B. MANAGEMENT
4.7         Ihere would be two PPMOs, one for Liaoning and one for Jilin Pfovinces.
The PPMO staff would consist of a director, four deputy directors and about 20
professionals including irrigation engineers, agronomists, livestock specialists, fishery
specialists, economists and accountants, who would be drawn principally from the technical
bureaus. The director and two deputy directors would serve on a part-time basis as their
substantive posts are with the Provincial Planning Commission (director and one deputy
director) and the Provincial Finance Bureau (one deputy director). The rest of the staff
are employed on a full-time basis. Each participating municipality and county PMO would
be similarly staffed with personnel drawn from the bureaus of planning, finance, water
conservancy, agriculture and animal husbandry, and fisheries.
4.8         Construction of the project's tubewells, drains, canals and control structures
would be largely contracted to domestic construction companies under LCB procedures.
Construction contracts would be signed between the construmcion companies and the project
units responsible for contract management. County governments would hire local farm
labor to carry out earthworks, erect small stuctu  and land leveling by force account.
Construction of buildings and minor civil works under the agriculture, livestock and
aquaculture components would be undertacen by enteprses through local contractors or
direct labor contracts.
C. ENVIRONMTETAL MON1TORING AND MANAGEMEN
4.9         Environmental Management Units will be established within each PPMO.
The principal responsibilities of the Centers will be to:  (a) management approval
procedures for detail designs of emission control systems through the Provincial EPBs;
(b) supervise commissioning of pollution control facilities to ensure that they are
constructed and performing in accordance with designs; (c) undertake ongoing emission
monitoring and ambient environmental monitonng; and (d) provide training to factory
technical staff and EPB officials in operation and monitoring of pollution control systems.



- 46 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that allproject acntives conform to Nanonal and
Provincal environmental standards and guidelines satisfactory to IDA, and that PPMO
would inplement their respectve environment management plans for the project as agreed
with IDA.
D. FINANCuL MANAGEMEr
4.10        Flow of Funds. Proceeds from the IDA credit would be onlent by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the Liaoning and Jilin governments at an interest rate of
5.3 percent, with repayment over 15 years, including a 5-year grace period. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the provincial governments. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.  The provincial BOFs, representing the provincial
govemments, would channel these funds to prefectural, municipal and county governments.
The county BOFs would pass on part of their project funds to county PMOs for
management, research, training and extension activities and through the local government
finance departments onlend another part for commercial investment to enterpnses and
farmers on terms agreed with IDA. This onlending would be for activities that have been
apprised anid approved by the respective PMOs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the proceeds of IDA Credit would be made available to farmers and to enterprises in
the fonn of loans bearing interest rates no less than the prevailing rate charged by ABC
or other commercial banks acceptable to IDA for similar loans for similar purposes of
similar maturity.
4.11        Domestic funds, which account for 46 percent of the project costs, would
be contributed by the provincial, prefectural, municipal and county governments and
project beneficiaries. The PMOs would receive their funds through the corresponding
BOFs at each level. Funding of a portion of worling capital for processing enterprises
would be provided by the provincial investment company or commercial banks. Contracts
would be signed among the various levels of government (resented by their BOFs) and
at each stage of relending operations, indicating the terms of lending and repayment
obligations. A project agreement incorporating all project tenns and conditions would be
signed between IDA and the provincial governments. State Council approval of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.12        RecoverY of Project Investment. Full recovery of the IDA credit would
be the responsibility of BOF in the prefectures, municipalities and counties participating
in the project. Counties would repay their prefectures or municipalities, which would
repay their provinces, which, in tum, would repay MOF for the use of the IDA Credit.
Domestic funds would be recovered according to the terms and conditions set by the local
govemments and would be returned to the respective county BOFs except funds obtained
from the three rvolving funds (pam. 4.13), which would be returned to each revolving
fund to maintain its viability and continuity.
4.13        Under the project, Liaoning and Jilin would each set up three revolving
funds to be opeated in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA: (a) an agricultural
input revolving fund for procurement of agrochemicals and fuel; (b) a livestock revolving



- 47 -
fund for financing new livestock production activities; and (c) a well development fund for
new wells and water-saving pipes. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
The interest charged to farmers from the revolving funds would also be at interest rates
no less than ABC prevailing rates for similar purposes and terms.
E. MANAGEmENr OF PRODUCTON AnvrrzEs
4.14        The proposed project offices (at provincial, prefectural, municipal, county
and township levels) of the water conservancy bureau (WCB) would be directly responsible
for the implementation and supervision of project irrigation and drainage works within their
level of authority. As at present, the prefectural and municipal WCBs would be
responsible for planning, designing and constructing new irrigation and drainage systems,
programming reservoir storage and release, controlling floods, allocating water to project
counties, managing main canals, and monitoring the groundwater table and groundwater
quality. The agriculture, livestock, forestry and aquaculture components would be
implemented through existing agencies and management structures, utilizing the mechanism
of project management offices for supervision and accounting of project activities.
Accordingly, the participating technical bureaus at the various levels would be responsible
for overseeing production activities throughout the life of the project.
4.15        Fertilizer, pesticides and fuel would be available for purchase through
various channels, such as village and township agroextension centers, agromachinery
centers and supply and marketing cooperatives (SMCs). Each project county would be
required to submit an annual agricultural inputs (fertilizer, pesticides and fuel) plan to the
county PMO showing cropping pattern, cropping area, plowing area, fuel requirement,
fertilizer, and pesticide application rates and quantities required. These inputs would be
procured by the project's procurement agent and sold to farmers in the project area. The
agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry and aquatic bureaus would provide technical
extension, improved veterinary and AI services, and training to farmers, herders and fish
farmers.
4.16        While activities under agriculture, livestock and forestry are carried out by
individuals under the household responsibility system, fish farms would be contracted out
by the breeding company to groups of households under a production responsibility system
for operation of single ponds or clusters of ponds. The breeding company would be
responsible for repayment of the project loan. It would supply the participating households
with all inputs (fingerlings, feed, transport and marketing) and recover its costs from sales
proceeds, as well as service fees levied by the company. The remaining funds would
accrue to the households as profits. The processing plant, hatchery and other enterprises
are independent opeations.
4.17        Each of the enterprises under the agroprocessing and livestock components
would be an autonomous unit. Management of the factories would be conducted by
professional management teams with responsibility for all aspects of company operations.
The provincial bureaus of light industry and livestock would be responsible for overseeing
their opeations.



- 48 -
F. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
4.18        Operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation and drainage component
would be organized and supervised by WCB in cooperation with representatives of farmers
and other users. O&M of irrigation and drainage facilities at the county and township
levels would be carried out by the county WCBs and the township water management
stations, respectively. The deep wels for the irrigated wheat component would normally
be operated by village enterprises with farmer participation. Since one well would cover
10 ha involving about 10 farmers, one of them would be assigned the responsibility of
operating the well and collecting the necessary fees from other farmers. Day-to-day
maintenance would be carried out by this farmer who would be given initial training in the
operation of the tubewell. More complicated technical maintenance work would be carried
out by the technicians of the water conservancy stations of the concerned townships.
4.19        Annual O&M costs for surface irrigation schemes, including fuel and power
cost, repair and maintenance expenses, and administrative expenses, including staff
salaries, would be collected from the farmers. Repair and maintenance work is generally
done during winter. Although annual O&M costs vary with the water source, typical fee
for surface irrigation schemes in the project area is about Y 0.016/in3, which covers about
40 percent of the operation and maintenance costs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that Jilin would (a) subnmt O&M plans for each irrigation and drainage
schemne to IDA for review by June 30, 1996 and (b) reviw the water charges for suface
irrigation scheams financed under the project by Decenber 31 of each year, with such
charges revised perodically in order to achieve a kvel sufficient to cover all O&M costs
by December 31, 2000.
G. PtoJEcr LAUNCE WoRKiop
4.20        To famiLarize participating staff and initiate implementation, the Bank Group
and local staff would conduct a project launch workshop either in Shenyang or Changchun
around May 1994 for the staff of the provincial, prefectural, municipal and county PMOs.
The purpose of the workshop would be to review the total program for implementation and
to clarify individual tasks and responsibilities at each level. Topics to be covered would
include procurement and disbursement procedures, project financial management,
monitoring and evaluation, and environmental impact assessment.
H. MONTORING, EVALUAnON AND REPORIG
4.21        The provincial, prefectual, municipal and county PMOs would monitor the
project's progress and evaluate the overall impact of the project and the economic and
financial benefits of each component. The county PMOs would keep a current account of
physical and financial progress of each project component. Physical indicators would
include such items as ldlometers of canals and drains constructed, number of wells
constructed, hectares of land reclaimed, physical progress of arprocessing plants, and
number of staff trained. Financial reports would quantify project expenditures and claims
for disbursement. Information on physical and financial progress would be submitted



- 49 -
semiannually to the prefectural/municipal PMOs which would prepare a progress report
to be forwarded to the PPMO.
4.22        As part of project evaluation, early in the implementation period, the
prefectural and municipal PMOs would undertake surveys of the project areas to
determine, inter alia, current levels of inputs and production, crop yields, livestock
numbers, salinity and alk-alinity levels, the progress of agroprocessing enterprises, and
farm incomes. These surveys would form the baseline from which to measure changes
resulting from the project. Assurances were obtained that (a) semiannual progress reports
that would be prepared by the PPMOs for submission to IDA within three months of the
end of each half-year; and (b) a mid-term review for the project would be undertaken by
the PPMOs by October 31, 1996, to assess progress and chart implementation of the
project in the remaining period. The project completion report containing the final
assessment of the project impact would be submitted to IDA not later than six months
following the closing date. A list of key monitoring indicators is given in Annex 3,
Table 11.



- 50 -
5. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. PRODUCTON
5.1        The project would expand areas under irrigated agriculture, converting a
corn-based cropping system to wheat and paddy on previously crpped low-productivity
land and uncropped wasteland. Fruit production would be improved and expanded.
Livestock production would be increased in grain surplus counties, while shrimp and
shellfish production would be increased in the project's coastal areas. In addition, several
agoprossed products would be generated from crops, livestock, aquaculture and their
by-products.
Crop Production
5.2         Cropping Patter. Incremental crop production in the project areas would
be achieved through improving the existing cropping pattern and increasing crop yields.
The existing 2,000 ha of rainfed corn in Jilin would be converted to irrigated wheat and
double-cropping of wheat followed by cabbage. The 21,300 ha of rainfed areas in
Liaoning would be converted into irrigated land. Intercropping of corn between rows of
wheat and double cropping of wheat followed by summer soybeans would be introduced.
These cropping systems would be practiced in a three-year rotation, i.e., the wheat-corn
intercropping for two years followed by a one-year wheat-soybean double cropping. The
irngated wheat and corn under the intercropping system would produce 4.5 tons/ha of
wheat (March-June) and 5.2 tons/ha of corn (May-September). The irrigated wheat and
soybeans under the double-cropping system would produce 4.5 tons/ha of wheat and
1.8 tonstha of soybeans. These yields are based on the levels achieved in the irrigated
land in the project areas.
5.3         Yields would be increased substantially under the project. In Jilin, in the
move from rainfed to irrigated agriculture, the yield of corn would be increased from
4.2 tons/ha to 5.1 tons/ha, paddy from 5.4 tons/ha to 6.4 tons/ha, wheat from 2 tons/ha
to 4 tons/ha and soybeans from 1.3 tons/ha to 1.6 tons/ha. In the drainage improvement
area, where com and soybeans suffer from various degrees of waterlogging due to
inadequate drainage facilities, the average yields of these crops vary from 3.0 to 3.8
tons/ha for com and 0.9 to 1.6 tons/ha for soybeans. With the construction of project
drainage works, it is expected that yields would rise to the ranges of 4.4-5.2 tonstha for
com and 1.2-1.7 tons/ha for soybeans.



- 51 -
5.4        In Liaoning, the project would increase the productivity of existing medium-
yield rainfed corn land and nonproductive wasteland into more productive irrigated paddy
and wheat land through construction of irrigation facilities. The average yield of corn
would be increased from about 4.0 tons/ha to 5.2 tons/ha and substantial area of
wastelands would be used for production (paddy 6,167 ha, wheat 21,333 ha and soybeans
7,100 ha). Yield of irrigated paddy is expected to be 7 tons/ha, based on similar
reclamation projects in the province.
5.5         At full development, in year 10, yields of apples, pears, and apricots would
reach 22.5 tons/ha, 18 tons/ha, and 15 tons/ha, respectively. Pinguoli will need 12 years
to reach full development at 13.5 tons/ha. These yield levels are based on actal yields
achieved in existing orchards.
5.6         Production. At full development, production of com is expected to be
reduced by 50,000 tons (13,000 tons in Jilin and 37,000 tons in Liaoning), due to a change
in cropping pattern under the project. Overall annual incremental production of paddy
would be 71,900 tons (29,400 tons in Jilin and 42,500 tons in Liaoning), wheat 91,800
tons (6,500 tons in rldin and 85,300 tons in Liaoning), and soybeans 13,000 tons (200 tons
in Jilin and 12,800 tons in Liaoning).
5.7        The annual production of apples, pears, apricots and pinguoli would be
increased by 73,700 tons, 13,500 tons, 3,000 tons and 94,500 tons, respectively, at full
development.  The afforestation would produce 39,650 m3 of poplar timber and
223,890 m3 of larch when they are clear-cut in Years 30 and 40, respectively.
livestock Production
5.8         The livestock program would use improved technology, including artificial
insemination for breeding, vaccination against prevalent infectious diseases, more nutritious
feeds for pigs to improve feed-to-meat conversion, the use of corn, brewer's waste,
disfiller's waste, and urea-treated roughage as feed for ruminants, and improved pasture
varieties and management. Annual incremental livestock production at full development
would be 24,900 tons of beef (19,350 tons from Jilin and 5,550 tons from Liaoning),
8,900 tons of mutton (7,900 tons from Jilin and 1,000 tons from Liaoning), 46,200 tons
of pork (Jilin), 5,400 tons of geese (2,300 tons in Jilin and 3,100 tons in Liaoning),
1,200 tons of rabbit meat (Liaoning), 8.9 tons of deer antlers (7.5 tons from Jilin and 1.4
tons from Liaoning) and 14 tons of venison (12 tons from Jilin and 2 tons from Liaoning).
Livestock Processg
5.9         The project would support the construction of seven modern slaughterhouses
that, at full capacity, would process annually 500,000 sheep, 130,000 cattle, 1.5 million
geese and 400,000 rabbits and other small animals. The slaughterhouses would prepare
and pack the major products, and would each have quick-freeze and cold-storage facilities.
Premium-grade packaged meat would be targeted at export markets, with other products
for domestic markets. Nonedible products would be processed off the premises. The



- 52 -
livestock component would have close linkages to the agroindustry component. The Da
An gelatin plant would require 6,750 tons/year of mixed bones from the slaughterhouses
and the Juitai Tannery would require 100,000 cattle hides, 600,000 pig skins and 600,000
sheep skins per year. The two goose processing facilities would also incorporate feather
cleaning, sorting and packing plants for 250,000 kg/year of raw feathers and workshops
for the production of feather-filled garments and bed covers. Deer production and
processing would be supported by the construction of a factory and would produce
traditional Chinese medicines from 1,600 tons/year of dry venison, antlers, velvet and
other deer products.
Shrimp and Shellfish Production
5.10        At full development, the annual yield in kilograms per hectare would be
shrimp (1,875), bay scallops (25,500 live weight), hard clams (1,500), short-neck clams
(1,875) and river crab (2,250). The incremental yield of shrimp is expected to be
525 kg/ha on the rehabilitated ponds. The annual incremental production of shrimp would
be 667 tons (equivalent to 387 tons of processed headless shrimp), scallops 12,317 tons,
hard neck clams 11,500 tons, short-neck clams 10,264 tons, and river crab 299 tons.
Agroindustry Production
5.11        Tbe projet would support the construction of 14 agroindustrial factories and
two cold stores for fruit and vegetables. Each of the units would process farm produce,
agricultural residues or livestock residues from the project area, thereby supporting the
agriculture and livestock components of the project. The factories would create additional
markets for grain, fruit, vegetables, oil seeds, and flax. The project factories would
purchase dogbane as an input for paper and wild mushrooms and herbs as an input for
Processed dried vegetables and medicines. At full capacity, the factories would annually
process 361,000 tons of agricultural and livestock products and by-products into
200,000 tons of finished products. Details are in Annex 3, Table 5.
B. MARKS
5.12        Local markets in both provinces are in surplus for corn but in deficit for rice
and wheat. In 1990, Jilin had a 9-million-ton corn surplus and deficits of 4,700 tons of
wheat and 9,500 tons of rice. Liaoning was a net importer of rice and wheat to the extent
of 1.2 million tons in 1990. The introduction of improved cropping systems under the
project would reduce existing annual corn production by about 50,000 tons and incremental
livestock feed and agroprocessing input requirements would increase corn requirements by
81,000 tons for feed and 150,000 tons for ag eng. In addition, the transport and
marketing improvements financed under the Grain Distribution Project would facilitate the
movement of surplus corn to deficit areas in southern provinces, which are presently net
importers of corn from the project provinces. All of these would serve to reduce the corn
surplus. The incremental production of rice, wheat and soybeans under the project, on the
other hand, would reduce imports of these grains and would be readily absorbed in the



- 53 -
local markets of both provinces. Rice grown under the project would also command some
price premium because of its superior taste.
5.13        Incremental production of fruit (apples, pears, apricots and apple-pears)
would be absorbed by markets in the project provinces, in neighboring provinces
(Heilongjiang and Hebei), in Beijing and other major cities, and in the southern provinces
of China. That there is a large unmet demand for northern apples is evidenced by
increasing sales to other provinces and rising prices. Apples are widely consumed in
China and per-capita consumption has steadily increased from 3.4 kg in 1985 to 6.1 kg in
1991. The incremental production would therefore be easily absorbed in the national
market. Apple-pears (Jilin variety) also command a national market and are in short
supply as evidenced by their high price. The incremental production of apple-pears would
be readily absorbed in this national market. Incremental pear and apricot production is
modest and would be easily absorbed localy and in neighboring provinces.
5.14        Incremental production of livestock would be marketed both domestically
and internationally, through existing channels. There is a strong domestic market for beef
and mutton and increasing opportunities in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)
and in Japan. The market for goose products including meat, eggs and down is presently
undersupplied; for down, there is good international demand for down garments. Pork
would be exported by the joint-venture company. Rabbit meat would be both for domestic
consumption and export. The relative quantities at any one time would depend on the
situation in export markets. The national market for antler and other deer products is
iely to grow with increasing incomes. Export opportunities, with the Republic of Korea
being the main export market, are good but China might face increasing competition from
New Zeland in antler products. Aiming at high-quality products and adequate quality
control might assist in retaining this market.
5.15        The incremental production of shrimp from the project of around 667 tons/
year would represent less than 0.12 percent of China's present total production and would
not materially affect either the Chinese or the world market. Demand for shellfish
(scallops and clams) is growing because of rising incomes and the expansion of the tourist
industry. The incremental production of the project would be easily absorbed by growing
domestic and export markets, the latter particularly in Japan and the United States. The
299 tons of river crab would be easily sold in local markets.
5.16        All of the processing plants are considered to have a secure market for their
products, and in most instances they would be supplying a small proportion of a very large
domestic demand. The expected rise in real income of 6 percent per year will create
additional demand for agricultural and consumer products, including processed foods, fruit
juices, paper products, and meat and other animal products. All the processing plants have
undertaken marketing surveys and have produced letters of intent from domestic clients for
a substantial portion of their output capacity. Due to recent changes in export policies,
several of the processing plants will have the right to establish their own export markets
and to trade under their own brand names. Some of the existing enterprises that will
expand their factories under the project have already started trading abroad, e.g., the De



- 54 -
Hui Abattoir, which has a trading office in Japan. Some would export quality products
and have market outlets in Europe and United States for items such as leather, linen, down
coats, down quilts, dry mushrooms, fluting paper and peanut proteins. Several factories
would produce primary products for secondary processng industries, including raw
mateials and packaging for export goods. These would be flax, fluting paper, furfural,
gelatin and modified starch plants, and would substitute for currently imported inputs.
C. PJciS
5.17        Output Prices.  Under the present reforms, the government is in the
process of reducing quota purchasing of grains and decontrolling prices of nonquota sales.
The government grain procurement quota at a fixed price has been reduced each year. In
Liaoning, grain procured under quota was reduced from 4.3 million tons in 1991 to
1.5 million tons in 1992. In Milin, quota grain procurement is now small. It is anticipated
that this procurement will be further reduced and eventually eliminated.  Price
liberalization has also reduced the role of price guidance in the expanded nonquota sales
to the extent that the prices received in negotiated sales are very close to free-market
prces. Farmers would be free to sell grains at negotiated or free market prices. The
incremental production of fruit, livestock and fish products would be sold mainly in the
free market. The high-value shellfish and shnmp would be mainly for export and would
receive international prices. Products of the processing factories would also be sold at
free-market prices. Prices of outputs from the project areas by component are shown in
Annez 3, Table 5.
5.18        Input Prices. Domestic inputs for all components would be at the market
prices. The project would finance the importation of important farm inputs such as
ferilizer and agrochemicals. An assurance was obtained at negodations that the PMOs
%duld charge farmers a pnce reflecring the full cost of the unported fertilizers and
pesticides financed by the project. These would avoid the problems of subsidized prices
and depletion of fcrtilizer revolving funds.
5.19        Fnancial and Economic Prices. Market prices of inputs and outputs are
used in crop budgets and financial analysis. Prices for grains, fruits, livestock, aquaculture
and agroprocesg products are the prevailing marlet prices (at appraisal) less
transportation and handling costs to reflect farm-gate prices. Details can be found in
Annex 3, Table 5.
5.20        Economic farm-gate prices of grains, fertilizers, livestock products and
shrimp are based on the Bank's international price projections, adjusted for international
and national traders' margins and transport and handling costs. In the case of fruit and
those agroindustrial products that would mainly be sold in the domestic market, financial
prices have been used to calculate economic prices. Border prices for prncipal products
and inputs can be found in Annex 3, Table 9.



- 55 -
6. BENEFITS, JUSTMICATION AND RISKS
A. BENEfFIS
6.1        The major benefits of the proposed project would come from (a) converting
surplus corn into livestock production and agroprocessed output; (b) shifting the crop mix
away from low-intensity corn to higher-intensity, higher-value crops; and (c) developing
waste and unproductive lands for fruit and aquaculture production. The project would
directly increase incomes, employment and living standards of some 518,000 farm
families. At full development, crop development under the project would generate
incremental annual production of 177,000 tons of grain (paddy, wheat and soybeans)
valued at $30.5 million in 1993 dollars; 75,500 tons of apples valued at $31.5 million;
13,500 tons of pears valued at $1.6 million; 3,000 tons of fresh apricots and 1,100 tons
of kernel apricots valued at $5 million; and 94,500 tons of apple-pears valued at $18
million. In aggregate, crop and orchard development would provide incremental value,
after adjusting for the associated reduction in corn output ($2 million) of $86.6 million
annuaIly. The livestock component, including the value of processing, would provide
incremental production of beef, mutton, rabbit meat, goose meat and deer antlers together
valued at $37.5 million annually. The aquaculture component would generate incremental
production of shrimp, shellfish and crabs valued at $24 million annually.  The
agroprocessing plants would produce total value-added of $40.2 million per year. The
project's total incremental annual production would be $188 million.
B. EPLomET Am INcomE
6.2        Employment.  The project would generate substantial employment
opportunities. It is estimated that the irrigation and drainage works to be constructed under
the project would create employment of about 5.6 million person-days during project
implementation. At full development, farming activities on the reclaimed, previously low-
productivity land would create an annual incremental demand for labor of about 3.3 million
person-days. Increased crop production would in turn create more new work opportunities
in activities such as marketing, processing, transportation, input supply and consumer
services. Aquaculture would provide jobs for 750 permanent workers and 2,900 casual
staff, who would be involved in harvesting, collection, processing and packing of shelfish
at various cold stores. Agroindustrial and livestock processing activities would create full-
time employment for nearly 8,500 workers, of which 35 percent would be female workers.
6.3        Incomes and Poverty Alleviation. The project would have a positive
impact on incomes of project beneficiaries, most of whom presently have incomes well
below the provincial average and are living either in officially classified poor counties or
in other low-income areas. Farm model analysis indicates that net per-capita income from
crops would triple with the project, from an estimated Y 311 for future without the project



- 56 -
to Y 998 at full development with the project. The average return per day in crops would
increase from Y 4 to Y 14. The average net income from orchard development would
increase substantially; for pinguoli, for example, income would quadruple from Y 1,700
to Y 6,500, which amounts to an increase in return per day from Y 23 to Y 72. The
average incremental net income from livestock development would be Y 1,100-20,000 per
family, or an incremental return of Y 10-136 per day. Incremental net income from
aquaculture production would be between Y 7,300 and Y 36,000 per family, or an
incremental return per day of Y 16-150.
C. EMLwymENr OPPoRTuNmEs FOR WOMEN
6.4         As in the rest of China, women in project areas participate in most of the
agricultural, livestock, aquaculture, agroindustrial and livestock processing activities. The
project would have a positive impact on their incomes as a result of income-generating
activities and employment oppotunities arising in the project areas. The incremental
production of paddy and wheat annually would require about 1.2 million person-days of
fertilizing, weeding and harvesting work. Similarly, fertilizing and harvesting of fruit trees
would provide employment for 32,000 female workers. The project's investment in small
animals (rabbits and geese) would provide income-generabng opportunities for some
11,000 women in household livestock production.  Aquaculture would provide
opportunities for some 1,776 women. The 14 agroindustrial plants would provide
employment for an estimated 2,975 women. Project staff and support services staff would
be strengthened under the project and this would also provide work opportunities for
female workers.
D. Cosr REOVERY
6.5         Cost recovery for this project would have several major elements. The cost
of fertilizer, pesticides, fuel and other production inputs would be recovered by payments
from baenficaries. Tbe cost of extension, reseach and training (Y 31 million) would be
recovered through the 5 percent provincial crop tax and the specal product taxes for
aquaculture and livestock of 10 and 6 percent. (Ihese taxes would apply to the
incremental production of the project.) Services provided by the water conservancy and
animal health bureaus would be recovered through service fees. Government investment
in agroprocessing and agroindustry in the form of equity would recovered in the normal
way from the distribution of enterprise profits. (he Govemment would also collect
enterprise profit taxes.) Cost recovery for investment in irigation would be through labor
contribution dunng project construction and O&M and through the revenues fmm water
charges (pam. 4.19). The cost recovery analysis from Annx3, Table 7 shows that at
present tax rates, project charges would be sufficient to cover project costs with a recovery
index of 18 percent. Rent recovery at full development averages 51 percent. Discounted
over the life of the project, the rent recovery index averages 95 percent.



- 57 -
E. FNANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES 1/
6.6          lnancial Analysis. Financial analysis has been carried out separately for
the crop, livestock, aquaculture, agroindustry and livestock-processing components of the
project. A per-hectare crop budget analysis for rice and wheat has been carried out 'with
project and without project." The results indicate substantial annual incremental net
benefits-Y 1,500 and Y 1,120 per hectare for rice and wheat, respectively. Financial
analyses have also been carried out for investment in new planting, top grafting and
improvement of apples, new planting and improvement of pears, and new planting of
apricots, and they show high financial rates of return (FRR) ranging from 22 to 63 percent.
Livestock models used for financial analysis show positive cash flows and acceptable ERRs
for all types of livestock, ranging from 16 to 41 percent. Financial analyses for new
shrimp ponds, scallop production, hard and short-neck clam production, crab production
and cold storage and processing facilities show high ERRs ranging from 21 percent to
39 percent and positive cash flows after debt service. The agroindustry and livestock-
processing components show acceptable FRRs between 16 and 28 percent Even at
80 percent capacity, these subcomponents would still be viable with ERRs between 12 and
23 percent.
6.7         Economic Analysis. Economic analyses have been carried out for the
individual components (crops, orchards, livestock, aquaculture, agroindustry and livestock-
processing), and for the project as a whole, using constant 1993 border prices. All
investment costs together with physical contingencies have been taken into account in
estimating the economic costs of the project.
6.8         World Bank price projections or average export and import prices actually
realized by China were used to estimate the farm-gate economic prices in 1993 constant
terms for traded inputs and outputs. Economic prices for nontraded goods were estimated
using the standard conversion factor of 0.8. All economic values were converted to local
currency at the July 1993 official exchange rate of Y 5.7 to $1. For the economic
analyses, farm and unskilled labor has been valued at Y 8 per person-day, representing
80 percent of the prevailing average wage rate of about Y 10 per person-day in the project
area. Based on the above assumptions, economic rates of return (ERR) for crops,
orchards, livestock, aquaculture, agroindustry and livestock processing are estimated to be
42, 47, 27, 26, 23, and 27 percent, respectively. The ERR for the total project is
estimated to be 32 percent (Annex 3, Tables 10.1-10.2).
6.9          Sensitivity Analysis. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out for all
components to evaluate the effect on the project ERR of changes in major economic
variables such as price, investment and operating costs. The results show that economic
viability of the crop, orchard and livestock development components is only marginally
sensitive to these variations. While the ERRs for the agoindustry and livestock-processing
1/  This project was appised in June/July 1993 when the exchange rate was $1 - Y 5.7. Economic and
finncial analysis is based an original apprisal pamnmter. The devaluatio wold improve conomic
and financial zedts to some extent.



- 58 -
components are also not very sensitive to changes in investment and input costs, they are
somewhat more sensitive to variations in output prices (Annex 3, Tables 10.3).
F. RSS
6.10        The project faces no unusual technical or organitional risks. Under the
project, management of project entities would be strengthened and farmers who already
have experience and basic knowledge would be further trained. The potential risk for
effective livestock production, i.e., ineffective straw ammonification and pasture
development, would be minimized by applied research and monitoring. The risk of
insufficient inputs for cattle fattening [live catle and brewery wastes (for feed)] have been
minimized by szing the cattle subcomponent according to verified input availability and
farmer-group contracts with breweries.  The risk that shelfish areas would be
contaminatod by industrial waste have been minimized by careful site selection and stict
monitoring programs. The potential marketing risk for agnoprocessed and livestock
products would be minimized by provision of technical assistance and improved processing
technology, quality and design.



- 59 -
7. AGREEMiiENTS AND RECO MIMENDATIONS
7.1         At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Liaoning and Jilin Provinces
that:
(a)   Jilin would construct the farm-level drainage networks related to the Songqi
irrigation scheme in accordance with construction plans satisfactory to BDA
(para. 3.7);
(b)   dams and reservoirs supplying the irrigation systems under the project
would be maintained and inspected periodically in accordance with sound
engineering practice, under arrangements satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.11);
(c)  the Liaoning PMO would provide an annual report on groundwater
monitoring and assessment in each of the different project areas during the
period May 1 to April 30 by October 31 of each year (para. 3.14);
(d)  the PPMOs would submit an annual research plan to IDA for review by
October 31, of each year for the subsequent year (pam. 3.21);
(e)  the prices of (a) semen produced by the project's Al stations would be
increased each year to arrive at full cost recovery by June 30, 1998 and
(b) goslings produced by the Changtu hatchery would be charged at full cost
(para. 3.44);
(f)   both PMOs would furnish to IDA for its review and approval an annual plan
for domestic and overseas training and study tours for implementation
during the subsequent calendar year by October 31 of each year during
project implementation. Training would be carried out in accordance with
plans satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.62);
(g)   all agrochemicals financed under the project would be approved by IDA and
stored, handled, distributed and used in accordance with guidelines
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.63(b)];
(h) i) Jihin and Liaoning PEPBs would approve the final designs of the
treatment facilities for each agro- and livestock-processng plants prior to
construction, and (ii) these enterprises would implement and maintain
effluent monitoring and treatment systems according to the final designs
approved by the PEPBs para. 3.63(c)];



- 60 -
(i)   Liaoning and Jilin would provide to EDA, for each municipality, prefecture
and county in the project, a detailed statement of approved budgetary
allocations by April 30 of each year (para. 3.68);
(j)   the PPMOs would maintain consolidated accounts for all components for
annual auditing by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and the audited
accounts together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the close of each financial year (para. 3.77);
(kc) prepare environmental management and monitoring plans to be submitted to
IDA for review by December 31, 1994 (pam. 3.78);
(1)   the provinces would ensure that any persons who are involuntarily resettled
or whose rights of land are compulsorily acquired as a result of the project
development would be provided compensation for assets, logistic support
and relocation assistance (para. 3.81);
(m)  the provinces would maintain the Provincial PLGs with composition and
responsibilities acceptable to IDA (para. 4.2);
(n) the provinces would maintain the PMOs with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA, staffed at all times by qualified and experienced staff in
adequate numbers (para. 4.3);
(o) all project activities conform to National and Provincial environmental
standards and guideines satisfactory to IMA, and the PPMO would
implement their respective environment management plans for the project
as agreed with IDA (par. 4.9);
(p) funds made available to project farmers and to enterprises through the local
government finance department would be at interest rates not less than
prevailing interest rates charged by ABC or other commercial banks
acceptable to IDA for similar loans of similar purposes of similar maturity
(pam. 4.10);
(q)   the project would set up three revolving funds: (i) an agricultural input
revolving fund for procurement of fertilizer, pesticides and fuel; (ii) a
livestock revolving fund for financing new livestock production activities;
and (iii) a fund for well development and water-saving pipes (para. 4.13);
(r)   Jun would 0T) submit O&M plans for each irngation and drainage scheme
to IDA for review by June 30, 1996 and (ii) review the water charges for
surface irrigation schemes financed under the project by December 31 of
each year, with such charges reised penodically in order to achieve a level
sufficient to cover all O&M costs by December 31, 2000 (pam. 4.19);



- 61 -
(s)  the provinces would undertake a mid-term review with IDA and the
Government by October 31, 1996 (para. 4.22); and
(t)  the PMOs would charge farmers a price reflecting the full cost of imported
fertilizers and pesticides (para. 5.18).
7.2         Assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)   proceeds from the IDA Credit would be onlent to Liaoning and Jilin
provinces at an interest rate of 5.3 percent, with repayment over 15 years,
including a 5-year grace period (para. 4.10); and
(b)   a mid-term review with IDA and the project provinces would be undertaken
by October 31, 1996 (para. 4.22).
7.3         State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 4.11).
7.4         Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 148.5 million ($205 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with 35 years' maturity to the People's Republic of China.






-62-                                                Annex 1
Table 1
CHIhA
SC4GLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data an Project Provinces
____   __  _ ________ _______....................................................................................................__.. _________
Lieaning                                  Jilin
_______    ___   .. .. .. .. .. ....__...................__ ____........______
1980        1991         1992         1980         1991         1992
____ ____  ____ _ _____................................. _____.................... _____....  _  ________.......
PopuLation (MifLion)
TotaL Population               35           39           39           22          25           25
Rural Population               23           23           23           16          1S           15
Rurai Labor Force               7            9            9            3           6            7
Agric. Labor Force              6            6            6            3           5            5
Rurel households                5            5            6            3           3            4
TVEs ('000)                    33          991        1,360           17         456          497
Land Area ('000 ha)
__ _____ .
Total Arable Land           3,775       3,467        3,480        4,l44        3,939        3,938
Saon Area                   3,547       3,600        3,633        4,057        4,040        4,049
Irrigated Area                760       1,060        1,634          731          463          442
GYAO CY MILLion)            7,356      30,228       34,075        6,166       18,SU        20,439
Crop Production            12,200       15,526       15,8a6
Grain Area ('000 ha)        3,221       3,090        3,051        3,514        3,542        3,m7
Grain Output ('OOOt)       11,605       14,949      15,886        9,220       18,989       18,403
3il Seed Area c000           303          143           68          186          188         154
oil Seed Output ('00          306          203           e1          345         435          358
Livestock Production
Pigs ('000 head)           10,463       11,377       12,220        5,430       5,226        5,447
Pork production ('00          423          823          914          317         458          429
Sheep/Goat ('000 hoe        2,104        2,479        2,395        1,679       2,287        2,285
Mutton production ('            2           U4           16            2           10           11
Cattle ('000 head)          2,656        1,494        1,553        2,318        1,991       2,229
Beef Production ('00           S0           65           67            a           49          61
Aquaculture
Pond Area ('000 ha)        ne           no               23           nm           ne           no
Production ('000t)            421        1,141          130            a           79           e5
Rural Incow per Cap           273          776          996          236          717          785
Main Consuhption (kg/capita)
Grain                         259          272          260          263          287          306
Oil Crops                       3            5            6            3            6            8
Meat                            9           12           14            a           11           16
Chicken                       0.3          0.5          0.6          0.5          0.6          0.5
Eggs                            2          3.9          5.5          1.3          5.3         10.9
Fish and Shrimp               1.7          2.4            3          0.7          1.5          4.4
Fruit                        13.1         25.3           26          2.5           ne           ea
S                     o         _............. a._................................. _  .................................
Sources: Statistics of Lio nins wnd Jilin Provine *, 199.



CHINK
SOHOLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE D3VEWOPKENT PROJECT
Project Prefectures, MunicipalLties and Counties
LLaconing Province
Pref. /MunLcipaiLtieu            counties
1. Tieling                       Changtu, KanpLng, raku, Kaiyuan, Tieling, XLifeng
2. FPuxin                        FuxILn, Zhangwu
3. Panjin                        Panshan, Dawa
4. Jinzhou                       JinxLan, Beizhen, Heishan, Yixian
S. Liaoyang                      Liaoyang, Dengta
S. Anshan                        Tai An, Haich*ng
7. iLnxL                         lincheng, Suishong
S. Chaoyang                      chaoyang, JiaippLng, leipiao, Kethou, Lingyuan, Longcheng
9. Shenyang                       Suburb of Shenyang City
Jilin Province
Pref. /Kunicipalities            counties
1. Changchun                     Yushu, Hong An, Dehui, JiutaL, Shuangyang and suburb of Changchun city
2. SLping                        GongshulLng, Lishu, shangILao
3. Daicheng                      Da An
4. Shangyuan                     ChangILing, QLanguo, Fuyu, Qian An
H 



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMPONENT
JILIN PROVINCE
Water Balance ; Fengman -HadaBhan Reervoirs
Year 2030
(million cubic meters)
1AN   PEH   MAR   APR    MAY    JUNE -J ILY    AUO   SEPT  OCT  NOV   nEC    TOTAT.
1. Inflow to Fengman Res.    453.1 424.2 473.5 1163.9 1135.0 1110.8  1448.5  969.4 761.0 389.8 627.0 347.0   9303.2
2. Inflow of Inter-           114.2 106.9 119.3  293.3  286.0  279.9   365.0  244.3 191.8  98.2 15S.0  87.4   2344.3
catchment Area
IUPPLY
3. Irrigation return Flow                                  10.0   14.7    12.9   12.9   5.9   2.4                  58.8
4.       Totafl BuiPB1Y       S67-3 531-1 592,2 1157.1 2431-0 1405-4  1S26-4 1226.6 958,7 490-4 78S-Q 434.5  11706-3
5. Irrigation Requirements
6.   a)Project Area                                        40.4   26.9    31.4   13.3                              112.0
7.   b)Rice Areas                                        393.0  261.7   305.3  129.0                              1099.0
B.  COVegetable Areas                               1.4    6.2    6.9      6.4    6.5   2.4   0.9                  30.6
9.   Sub-Total Irr. Rea                             L    439.5  295-5   343.1  14i.8                              22 0-9  UiLi
10 Domeatic & Industrial      122.1 103.5 135.7  152.6  154.3  171.3  161.1  166.2 159.4 156.0 106.8 106.8   1695.9 -
11 Interval Losses             66.7 62.4  69.7  171.2  169.1  165.1   214.6  144.1 112.6 57.6 92.2  51.1   1375.5
12      TOtal Demand          189-8 165-9 205-3 3253  76i2-0  631,9   718.8  459-1 274. 214.5 199-1,157-9   4302
URPLUB 13          Surplus           376.5 365.3 3I7LS 11318  669-0  773.5 Io11077  767l 684.2 275i9 S86.0 27.i6  7403.4 
_  _                                                                          F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMPONENT
LIAONING PROVINCE
Water Balance for Groundwater Resources
Year 2015
mcm
Changtu  Faku  Kangping  Tieling  Heishan  Beizhan  Jlnxian   Ylxlan  Zhangwu  Talen  Uaoyang Dangle    Total
SUPPLY
Potential      179.33  120.40  174.00    5.20   99.65  278.78  123.35   72.67  137.12  240.95  348.44  179.00   1956.80
Usabla         125.53   63.20  126.00    2.71   82.83  187.95   95.99   45.75   88.91  228.10  290.45  146.90   1483.32
2015 DEMAND
Agriculture     62.97   51.34   27.26    2.25   38.23  133.60   76.20   11.90   33.45  151.00  118.30  103.62    810.02
IndustrIal       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00          0.00
Urban            0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    2.25'   0.35    0.60    0.00    0.65    3.60    0.00    0.00         12.25
Rural            9.31    3.40    5.19    0.00    5.94   14.50    8.49    1.41    5.39    7.12   11.68    3.60         76.03
Others           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00          0.00 
sub-total    221.   64.2    37.4       2?    Ala2  148.35   86.29   13.31   3i   101.B2  12888  107.22   9fLUD
SURPLUS/DEFIC            LO2 6   I1A      Q8f. 0.A4   26 41 3 9 60   I07 2A&                      1 68,4B 100.47     585.Q2 -
'Note: In those counties with limited groundwater, additional waler would be available as Induced sidellows, reduced evaporallon and Incteased Infllltralon
groundwater In those counties.



- 64 -
Annex 1
Table 3
CHINA
SOWCLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE DEVLOP$KEWT PROJECT
Key Statistics of the Project Area
_..  _. _____________   .... .,,,_ .___  ,,______    _ ._._._ __ .____ .________.____._ ____._.__________
Total     Average
Total   Agricultural                         X Share of                   Area   Per Capita
Project Counties    PopuLatlanPopulation  GVAO   -----         -------------       ----------               Income
('000)    ('000)   CY oil)  Crops  LivestockFisherfesForestry sideline ('000 ha)    1990
Jilin Province
Qienguo                  143.0    137.0    179.7    89.0       8.0       0.2      1.3      1.3     71.0          474
Fuyu                    579.0    545.0   595.1    8U.0         8.0      3.0       0.2      1.0    198.0          496
Changling               318.0    293.0   206.9    36.0        10.0       0.0      0.2      4.0    121.0          499
Oian An                  212.0     196.0   329.4     79.0      16.0      0.2      2.0      3.0     58.0          390
Da AN                     70.0     59.0    13.1    72.o        15.0      6.3      3.0      3.4     20.0          496
Lithu                   610.0    530.0   532.1    32.0         16.0      0.4      1.0      1.0    175.0          594
Shuangtiao              245.0    193.0   383.1    63.0    15.0           0.0      1.0     21.0     31.0          SOO
GngzhuLing         -    459.0    427.0   269.6    73.0    17.0           0.:      1.0      t.0    142.0          41C
Yuthu                    414.0    396.0   275.7    39.0         9.0      0.4      1.0      0.5    105.0          426
Hong An                  477.0    410.0   511.2    U .0        10.0      1.0      1.0      0.3    154.0          408
Dehui                    349.0    344.0   427.6    37.0        11.0      0.7      1.0      0.5    107.0          364
Jiutai                    91.0      36.0    59.9    83.0       13.0      0.5      3.0      0.5     22.0          312
Shuangyang               105.0    101.0   131.4    30.0        16.0      1.5      0.2      1.0     23.0          353
Suburb of Changchun      111.0    106.0   251.0    58.0    41.0          0.2      0.5      0.2     31.0          461
_______......._W__ ..................___._..................__..___.. _.... ......__. .____......._____.............___
Subtotal            4, 13.0  3,323.0  4,539.5    79.8    14.6          1.1      1.2      3.3  1,338.0          *42
Liaoning Province                                                                                          Year 1991
Changtu                  346.1     297.4   439.0    71.2       27.0      0.3      0.3      0.3     83.7          7
Carping                  249.7    233.6   394.8    52.4       41.9       0.9      1.7      1.7     72.4          552
Faku                    243.6    203.9   246.1    70.5        25.7       0.3      1.5      1.5     57.9          742
kaiyuen                    1.1       1.1      2.0    40.0    40.0        0.0     20.0     20.0      0.2          758
TieLing                  31.8       30.8    71.7    62.7    21.9         3.3      9.8      9.8      6.1          152
Xifeng                    24.4      21.7    13.8    58.6    27.1         0.0     10.5     10.5      2.9          649
Fuxin                    71.1      68.7   229.0    70.6    26.6          0.0      0.3      0.3     67.4          836
Zhcngwu                  200.1     190.0   163.8    76.7    ¶9.9         0.0      1.3      1.3     95.2          802
Jinxicn                  154.8    146.2   162.7    33.7        14.2    47.1       3.5      3.5     29.2          591
5eizhmn                  486.8    469.0   374.2    71.5        20.0      0.3      7.4      7.4     74.6          818
Neishan                  298.9    285.0   418.2    71.3    23.1          3.7      1.1      1.1     67.9          891
Yixian                   476.6    453.9   458.3    5t.9    31.1          0.1      1.8      8.8      74.4         331
Panshan                   24.9      21.0   102.0    48.7        6.0     44.1      1.2       1.2      3.2       1,209
Dow&                      38.3      31.7    72.6    73.1    12.3        10.1      1.4       1.C1    8.0        1,065
Lisoyang                 297.3    276.8   241.0    67.3        18.3      2.5      8.5      3.3      27.6       1,015
Dengt                    440.0    433.3    231.2    73.5       14.3      5.9      0.9      0.9      73.7         793
Tat An                   139.7    131.6   169.8    67.6    23.9          2.5      2.5      2.5     31.1          397
Haichen                  220.0     209.0   303.0    49.6       28.9      1.5     19.5     19.5      31.0       1,201
Xincheng                 243.0    216.0    85.0    63.2        19.2      0.9      6.8      6.1     48.2          727
Suizhong                 259.0    249.0   192.0    *6.2   .22.7          2.2      7.0      7.0      62.0         679
Lonscheng                 21.9      27.6    15.1    61.4       29.4      0.0      0.2      0.2       1.8       1,017
Chaoyang                 173.1    169.2   109.9    64.0        27.8      0.0      8.4      5.4      13.7         656
Jiwrping                 291.4    231.1   224.3    70.4        22.5      0.0      2.1       2.1     71.9         636
Kazuo                    173.1    166.8   130.2    75.1        18.4      0.0      3.2       3.2     22.0          514
Lingyuan                 243.0    210.0   140.4    53.6    33.6          0.1       7.9      7.9     20.3          554
Seipiao                  192.0     134.0    173.9    56.4      34.6      0.0       4.3      4.3     35.2          646
subtotat            5,3"6.4   4,958.9  5,194.5    63.1      24.3      4.9      5.4       5.4  1,081.6         808
............. .....................................................................................................
Sources: Li oning and Jliln Stctistica Yeaorbooks, 1991.



CHINA
SONOLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJRCT
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAaB COMPONENT
JILIN PROVINCE
Water Balance : Fengman -Hadashan Renrvoirs
Year 2030
(million cubic meters)
IPPhs kmN           ITRM              JAN    FRB  MAM   APR    MAY    JUNE   JULY                 AEW RC                     TO?AL
1. Inflow to Fengman Rer.      453.1 424.2 473.5 1163.0 1135.0 1110.8  1441.5  969.4 761.0 309.0 627.0 347.0   9303.2
2. Inflow of Inter-            114.2 106.9 119.3  293.3   266.0  279.9   365.0  244.3 191.8  9t.2 158.0  67.4   2344.3
catchment Area
IUPPLY
3. Irrigation return Plow                                   10.0   14.7    12.9   12.9   5.9   2.4                    so.g
4.       Total SUiDD1          567.3 531.1 "j 1457.1 1431.0 1405.4  1826.4 1226.6 950.7 490.4 785.0 434.5  11706.3
S. Irrigation Requirements
6.    a)Project Area                                        40.4   26.9    31.4    13.3                               112.0
7.    biRica Areas                                         393.0  261.7   305.3  129.0                               1069.0
8.     c)Vegetable Areas                             1.4     6.2    6.9       6.4     6.5   2.4   0.9                 30.6
9.    Sub-Total Irr. Rea                             ii   439.5  295.5   343.1  148.8 At          0                  1231.L
10 Domestic A Industrial       122.1 103.5 135.7  152.6   154.3  171.3   161.1  166.2 159.4 156.0 106.8 106.6   1695.9
11 interval Lose6s              66.7  62.4  69.7  171.2  166.1  165.1   214.6  144.1 112.6  57.6  92.2  51.1   1375.5
12       Tt*1 Demand           16.  1C5.9 205.3  325.3   762.0  631.9   716.8  459.1 274.4 214.5 199.l 1S?.9   4302.9
URPLUS 13           Surlus             37015 3CS.3 387.S 1131.   669.0  773.5  1107.7  767.fi604.2 275.9 586.O 276.6   7403.4 



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMPONENT
LIAONING PROVINCE
Water Balance for Groundwater Flesources
Year 2016
mcm
Changlu  Faku  Kangping  Tlollng  Helshan  Belzhan  Jlnxian   Yixian  Zhangwu  Talan  Llaoyang Dengta    Total
SUPPLY
Potential       179.33  120.40  174.00    5.20   99.58  278.78  123.35   72.67  137.12  240.95  348.44  179.00   1956.80
Usable          125.63   63.20  125.00    2.71   82.83  187.96   95.99   45.75   86.91  228.10  290.45  146.90   1483.32
2015 DEMAN
Agriculture      02.97   51.34   27.26    2.25   38.23  133.50   76.20   11.90   33.45  151.00  118.30  103.62    810.02
Industrial        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           00
Urban             0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    2.25'   0.35    0.60    0.00    0.55    3.60    0.00    0.00         12.25
Rural             9.31    3.40    6.19    0.00    5.94   14.50    8.49    1.41    6.39    7.12   11.60    3.60         76.03   ,
Others            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00          0.00 
sub-total    Z2 2      4A74   3745 4    26 45 42  148.35   8629   13.31   39.39  161.62  129.99  107.22    890.30
SURPLUS/DEFIC   53.25    &A.i   87 66    0411   36.41   39.60   10 7    32 44   49.52   66 49  180.47   39 58 586.02 -
"Note: In those counties with limited groundwater, additional water would be available as Induced sidellows, reduced evaporallon and Incteased Infiltration
groundwater In those counties.
LI' 



- 67 -                  Annex I
Table 6
CEHN
SONLo PLAIN ADP
SRRZGATION AND DRAINAGE COMPONEST
JILX  PRCOTC
ANALYSIS ON MON=R=ING VALCE AND SINGLE ITTM INDEX ON
WATER OCML=TY OF SONGBUA RIVER
,1990 - 199
Monitored Item                  Standmrd of                4onitored Value
Water Quality
Ground & Surface  Agricultural        Shaokeo    Fuyu
Water           Use             11-11       11-11
Do  -  > 2                       5.4         6.3
CoD Cr                 c 2S                              16.27        8.57
NOD5                    c 10                             13.00         4.2
NXE3-N                  c 0.2                              0.0000      0.0000
NO2                    IC1                                 0.023       0.097
NO3                     c 25                               0.82        1.13
2  OR                   < 0.1             < 1              0.005       0.031
CN                      c 0.2             c 0.5            0.000       0.000
AS                      c 0.1             c 0.05           0.004       0.004
Eg                      c 0.001            c 0.001         0.00002    0.00003
Cr6-                    c 0.1             c 0.1
Pb                      c 0.1             c 0.5            0.008       0.009
oil classification    c 1                 c 1              0.25        0.20
PE                      6-9               S.5-8.S          7.41        7.30
File: tablel. tbl



- 68 -                               Annex 1
Table 7
SONGLIAO PN ADP
J7ILIN PROVTNCE
SONG PO RIGATION SCEME
PUMPING STATIOS CHACTERA ISTICS
New PumDinq station  aZeaLha) No.of  PuB 2    ^_            Em   Tvoe of Dev.
1. lIt St. Zhong Xia  380          2        1.5   310       6.5    Rehah.
2. 2nd St. Paija       880         4        3.661 620       6.6    Rebab.
3. 2nd St. Zaojia      120         3        2.771 465       5.75   Rehab.
4. 2nd St. Louja       300        -2        0.54   60       4.O5  - Rehab
5. 2nd St. Noushrn    330          2        0.69  150       4.10   Rebab.
6. 3rd St. Penjia      260         2        0.52   60       7.10   Rehab.
7. 3rd St. Shanzui    770          3        1.73  285       7.45   New
S. 2nd St. Nouyan      380         2        0.80  150       4.15   New
Total            32
1/ Discharge from those pumping station would irrigate the designated areas
and the surplus would go to 3rd stage pumping stations.
2    in addition there are 190 ha irrigated at prtsent form existing Ist
stage pumping station, making the total 4,500 ha.



- 69 -
Annex 1
CHINA                  Table 8
SONCLTAO PATN ADP
JILIN PROVINCE
IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMPONENT
LEFT SIDE DRAINAGE SCR
Pumtnrz Station Characteristf cs
Schem/Pimping Station         Cou lmbr of    Total                head   Total
Area        PUMP     Discharge              kw
(ha)       Unts        z3/1s     (a)
We-hon,app Scheme
Li idangfang Pumping St.    1.590       3          5.98      4.05   540
Xinglong Puping St.            717      2           2.00     3.58   160
-East Zhujialu Pumping st.   1.464       3          4.22     2.79   24G
Sub-Total        L3771
Wangjiatun Pumping St.         719      2           3.26     3.96   190
Shu nghechuan Pumping St.    885        3          3.44      3.74   240
Langyimen Pumping St.         280       2           1.10     2.34    60
Shivujiazi Pimping St.        758       3          3.18      1.94   165
Wenjiagang Pumping St.         261       3          0.945    1.81    45
Sub-Total          29
Total            6i674 -



- 71 -                            Annex 1
Table 10
- 70 -
_                        Annex 1
CHINA                     Table 9
SONGIAO PLAIN .DP
IRRIGATION AND DRAIN CGE COMPONENT
IMPROVED AND NEW AREAS
Scheme                          New         Improved          Total
(Na)         (Ha)            (Ha)
1. Song Qi Irrigation Scheme 2,6601              930           3,590
2. Song Po Irrigation Scheme 1,3001            3,200           4,500
3. Wazhangbao Huajia           3,8002          7,700          11,500
Drainage Scheme
4. Pu Yu Groundwater           2,000;            ---           2,000
Irrigation Scheme
To;al                     9.760         ;11B30           21,590
11   Wasteland areas.
t/ Water logged areas.
2/   Groundwater aresw.



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE DEVELOPRENT PROJECT
Livestock Programs - Lfsoning Province
Yuan Per Fmily/Group
Lfvestock Production      Prefecture       County       Investment  Working Total Ease Nuiber of----------------------.-----
Capital    Cost    Famuiles Investment Working    Totsl
--- -------(000 Yuan) --------                       Capital
1. Cattle Fattening      Tieling,    Xifeng, Changtu,       50,703   11,631     62,334    6,612       7,668    1,759    9,427
Zhangwu     Kenping, Faku,
Fuxin, Zhangwu,
L  aoyang and
Kazuo.
2. Cattle Breeding         Teling,  Kanping, Dengts,        16,711    2,440      19,151    2,241      7,457    1,089    8,546
Liaoyyng  Tixian and Long-
Cheng District
3. Sheep Production         Fuxin    Fuxin County            6,934    1,250       8,184    1,000      6,934    1,250    8,184
4. Deer Production                   Xifeng                  4,294      525       4,819      150     28,627    3,500   32,127
5. Goose Fattening          Fuxin    Changtu, Zhangwu       12,680    2,664      15,344    9,000      1,409       296   1,75
T. Rabbit Production       Chayang  Changtu, Jianping    13,286    3,159         16,445    2,925      4,542    1,081    5,623
Sub-total Llsoning               104,608   21,669    126,277   21,928
*--UZZZUZUUUURZZESZZUUUS=SUUss                                                                       _
1. Ireeding Deer Farm                Xifeng                  6,181    1,000       7,181
2. Goose Breeding Farm                Changtu                2,572      620       3,192
3. Pasture Development                                         915                  915      140      6,536              6,536
4. Nucleus Rabbit Stud Farm           Chaoyang City            472       64         536
5. Rabbit Multi. Stud                 Laocheng                 133       37         170       10     13,300    3,740   17,040
6. Rabbit Multi. Stud                 Jiariping              1,072      107       1,179       10    107,200   10,720  117,920
11,345    1,829      13,174
1. Al 4 Support Service                                       2556                 2556
2. overseas Training                                           413                  413
3. Domestic Training                                           662                  662
4. Extension                                                  3774                 3774
January 24. 1994
H



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Programs - Jiln Province
*uan Per Fmily/Group
Livestock Production      Prefecture       County       Investment  Uorking Total Base NuRber of-----------------------------
Capital    Cost    Families Investment Uorking    Total
----------- ('000 Yuan) --------                      Capital
1. Cattle Fattening       Changchun  Changchun Sub.         35,676    8,400      44,076    6,000       5,946    1,400    7,346
(3 Heads)                          Shuangyang
Jiu Tai
De Hui
Nong An
ShuangYang  Fuyu                    5,854    1,270      7,124    1,000        5,854    1,270    7,124
2. Cattle Breeding/      Changchun   5 Counties             43,905    9.600      53,505    8,000       5,488    1,200    6,688
Fattening (2hd)       ShuangYang  Fayu                    7,885    1,050       8,935    1,500       5,257       700    5,957
3. Goose Production      Changchun   Nong An                 5,693    5,200      10,893   10,000          569      520    1,089
4. Deer Production       Changchun   Shuwns Yang            17,306    1,952      19,258       600     28,843    3,252   32,095
5. Sheep Production      ShuangYang  3 Counties             34,217   10,000      44,217    4,200       8,147    2,000   10.147
Siping      Lishu                   6,517    1,600       8,117      800       8,147    2,000   10,147
6. Cattle Fattening      Siping       Shuwns Liao           52,232    8,400      60,632    4,000       13,058    2,100   15,158
(5 Heads)                          Lishu
7. Pig Fattening         Siping       Gongzhuling           56,759    7,500      64,259    2,500      22,704    3,000   25,704
Sub-totat Jiltin                  266,044   54,972    321,016   38,600
8. Cattle Fattening      Siping       Shuang Llao            10,330    1,548      11,878      180      57,389    8,600   65,989
(Feedlots)                        Lishu
9. Pasture Devetopment                                       9,796         0      9,796       500      19,592         0   19,592
10. Al progrm            Siping                              2,652                2,652
11. Research                                                   551                   551                                                     Fx
12. Al and Veterinary                 2 cities S             2,221                2,221
18 Townships
182 villages
13. Sheep Support                     Shuwngyang             7,904                 7,904
14. Research/Training                                        7,175                 7,175
15. Al support           Changchun   1 city,4 countiles
nd 56 towmships        4,814                4,814
16. Overseas Training                                          210                   210
17. Domestic Training   Changchun                            6,544                6,544
--......----.
January 24, 1994



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICaLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agro-Industries and Livestock Processing Components
Total Base Cost
........... ...................... ...... ........... .. .... .... .... ...... .. .. ...........................
Product and                      Inwestment    aorking       Total
INVESTMENT CO"PONENT             Capacity                           Base Cost   Capital      lsse Cost
Jilin Province Agro-industries                                    i-----------liion Yuan-----------
.     , . .. . . . ...... . .. ..
-Lishu Anhydrous Alcohol Plant   30,000 t/y anhydrous alcohol        179.172      17.700        196.872
-Shuangyang Ricestraw Papermill  17W000 t/y fluting paper             51.897       4.310         56.207
-Jlutal Tannery                  1,300.000 skins nd hides/y          114.335      23.750        138.085
-Dslsn Gelatin Plant             750 t/y gelatin                      51.838       3.800         55.638
-Olan'en Flax Mill               5.000 Spindles exponsion             84.026      17.140        101.166
-Yushu Modified Starch Plant     10,000 t/y modifled starch           48.651       8.590         57.241
529.919      75.290        605.209
Jilin Province Livestock Processing
.. ....... ..... ........ .........
-Taf Ping sheep slaughter        500,000 sheep per year               36.700       8.330         45.030
-De Hui cattle slaughter         50,000 cattle per year               64.315      11.260         75.575
-Shuang Liao cattle slaughter    50,000 cattle per year               24.608       9.150         33.758
-Shuang Yong deer products       Assorted  phrodislacs                29.818       9.500         39.318
-Nonglan goose slaughter         1,100l000 geese per year              8.310       1.620          9.930
-Nongsan goose feather factory   240 t/y feather processing            4.599       3.030          7.629
-Nong'an garment factory         350,000 garments per year             4.022       8.470         12.492
172.372     51.360         223.732
Llaoning Province Agro-Industries
-Haicheng applejuice             Beverages 7500 t/y                   34.683       6.720         41 .403
-Taln Dogbane Poperfilt         Fluting paper 23,000 t/y             70.060       8.150         78.210
-Kangping Furfural Plant         Furfural 1,000 t/y                    7.653       0.750          8.403
-Kaiyuan Nawthorn Processing     Beverages 8,500t/y                   37.510      13.080         50.590
-Xlfeng Wild Herbs               Dried herbs 1500 t/y                  8.144       2.050         10.194
-Xincheng peanut processing      Protein/olt 22,706 t/y               72.358      12.830         85.188
-LIaoyang Pectese plant          Pectase 425 t/y                      29.555       3.550         33.105
-Longdheng Sesame oll            Seswe oil 2385 t/y                    8.622       6.000         14.622
-Jinxi Detaishan cold store      1,500 T fruit cold store              8.091       4.040         12.131
-Halcheng Detun cold store       1,000 T fruit/veg cold store          6.161       2.150          8.311
282.837      59.320        342.157                       m x
LIsoning Province Livestock Processing
......... ........................... ............... 
-Changtu cattle slaushter        30000 cattle per year                25.476       6.740         32.216
-Changtu rabbit slaughter        850000 rabbits per year               8.515       2.260         10. m
-Zhangwu goose abottolr          400000 geese per year                 8.186       4.340         12.526
42.177      13.340         55.517
Total (Yuan)                     1,027.305     199.310       1,226.615
Total (USS) st S1 * Y8.7           118.081      22.909         140.990
January 14, 1994



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRI,CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_..     SUMMARY OF RESEARCH Topics
Research Topic La         Research areas          Responsible organization  Period        Total cost
(year)          (Y)
1.  Liaoning - Field Crops
1. Study on IPM for   County: Changtu, Kanping, Gen. Station of Plant    5           600,000lk
corn, wheat, rice,   Paku, Tieling, Kaiyuan,    Protection, MOA; Provincial
soybean and cotton  Zhangwu, Jinxian,     AAS; Prefectural AAS
Heishan, Beizhen, Yixian,
Liaoyang, Dengta, Tainan
2. Evaltiation of    County: Changtu, Kanping, Provincial AAS, Prefectural    5
Rhizobium inoculum Paku, Tieling, Kaiyuan,    AAS
on leguminous crops Zhangwu, Jinxian,
Heishan, Beizhen, Yixian,
Liaoyang, Dengta, Tainan
3. Evaluation of new   County: Changlu, Kanping, Provincial AAS, Prefectural    5
varieties/introductio  Faku, Tieling, Kaiyuan,    AAS
ns, e.g., Amaranth  Zhangwu, Jinxian,
Heishan, Beizhen, Yixian,
Liaoyang, Dengta, Tainan
4. Field listing of  County: Changtu, Kanping, Provincial AAS, Prefectural    5
improved cultivation Paku, Tieling, Kaiyuan,    AAS
techniques        Zhangwu, Jinxian,
Heishan, Beizhen, Yixian,
Liaoyang, Dengta, Tainan
I-'P



Research Topic La         Research areas           Responsible organization  Period         Total cost
(year)           (Y)
III. Llaoning - Orrhardt
I. Cultural practices,  Apples - Xingcheng,   Instilute of Pomology, Liaoning  5       600,000 
top grafting,     Suizhong, Dataishan,     Agricultural University,
pruning, fertilizing, Haicheng, Nanshan, Jinxian Chinese Institute of Pomology,
mulching, planting   and Chaoyang          CAAS
density, terracing    Pears - Beizhen
and establishment of Apricots - Yixian, Beipia
hedges and        and Llngyang
Irrigation
2. Testing of new     Apples - Xincheng,      Institute of Pomology, Liaoning  5
cultivars         Suizhong, Dataishan,     Agricultural University,
Haicheng, Nanshan, Jinxian Chinese Institute of Pomology,
and Chaoyang            CAAS
Pears - Beizhen
Apricots - Yixian, Beipia
and Lingyang
3. Post-harvest       Apples - Xincheng,      Institute of Pomology, Liaoning  5
technology        Suizhong, Dataishan,     Agricultural University,
Haicheng, Nanshan, Jinxian Chinese Institute of Pomology,
and Chaoyang            CAAS
Pears - Beizhen
Apricots - Yixian, Beipia                                                          L
and Lingyang



Research Topic La         Research areas          Responsible organization  Period        Total cost
(year)          (Y)
IL. Jilin - Field Crops
1. Study on IPM for   Songpo, Songqi, Huajia,   Gen. Station of Plant    5            1,232,0001
corn, wheat, rice,   Puyu, Wazhonggao areas   Protection, MOA; Provincial
soybean and cotton                        AAS; Prefectural AAS
2. Evaluation of     Songpo, Songqi, Huajia,   Provincial AAS, Prefectural    5       -
Rhizobium inoculum Fuyu, Wazhonggao areas   AAS
on leguminous crops
3. Evaluation of new   Songpo, Songqi, Huajia,'  Provincial AAS, Prefectural    5
varieties/        Puyu, Wazhonggao areas   AAS
introductions
4. Field listing of  Songpo, Songqi, Huajia,   Provincial AAS, Prefectural    5
improved cultivation Puyu, Wazhonggao areas   AAS
techniques
H D
fD 
I 3



Research Topic La          Research areas             Responsible organization   Period         Total cost
(year)            (Y)
IV. Jilin - Orrhards
I. Planting density    Experimental Orchard In    Pomology Institute, Jilin   5            100,000Ok
trials, distribution of Gongzhuling and model    Agricultural Institute
pollinators, fertilizer farms (2 ha each) in
application        Liufangzi and Sanjiazi
2. IPM for control of  Experimental Orchard In    Pomology Institute, Jilin   S
major fruit pests    Gongzhuling and model    Agricultural Institute
farms (2 ha each) In
LUufangzi and Sanjiazi
3. Investigations on    Experimental Orchard In    Pomology Institute, Jilin  S
maturity index of   Gongzhuling and model    Agricultural Institute
fruits             farms (2 ha each) in
Liufangzi and Sanjiazi
4. Post-harvest        Experimental Orchard In    Pomology Institute, Jilin   5
technology         Gongzhuling and model    Agricultural Institute
farms (2 ha each) in
Liufangzi and Sanjiazi
La Detailed annual research topics to be prepared and submiited to IDA for review.
1k Research expenditure managed by PMO as a lump sum, also cover some demonstration/extension activities on farmers' field. f 
a..



Research Topics             Research Areas   Responsible                  Period       Total Cost
Organization                (Year)          (Y)
1. Liaoning Irrigation
& Drainage Component
1. Water Savinig Techniques  Project counties   County Water Conservancy    3              120,000
Bureau
2. Reclamation or          Project cointies                                 3               80,000
Wasteland                                 County Water Conservancy
Bureau
11. Jilin - Irrigation &
Drainage Component
Project counties   Cointy Conservancy Bureau     3              80,000          A
1. Water Saviiig 
Technqties              Project counties   County Conservancy Bureau     3              150,000         H x
m x
2. Reclamation of
Wasteland



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research programs - Livestock Component
_____________________________________________________________________________._______________________
Research Topics             Research Description       Responsible Organization        Period    Total Cost
Year        (Yuan)
----------------------------------------------------------------__----------_.------------------------
Grassland Improvement    Comparison of different  Jilin Academy of Agicultural    3                     260,000
grassland Improvement    Sciences
techniques and pasture
development.
Beef Cattle                Evaluation of performanceJilin Academy of Agicultural    5                   200,000
and quality of different Sciences
beef cattle crosses.                                                                               C
Value of Maize stover    Evaluate the nutritional Jilin Academy of Agicultural    3                     150,000
as feed                     value of maize stover    Sciences
treated with different
sources of urea and
ammonia.
Amaranth as feed           Experiment on the use of Jilin Academy of Agicultural    3                    50,000          H x
amaranth for goose and   Sciences                                                              
cattle fattening.
________------------------------------------_----------________________________________________



OHINA
PONGLIAO PLAIN ACRIVULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRANNG PROGRAM - ACRmCULlTRE/hfoRnCULcWm1 COMPONENrS
Total train-
Trainees                   Training topics           Location of training         Duration    nees (staff-
(days)     months) La
t. Liaoning - Field Crops
Extension
County/ltownship staff   Extension training on  CATECs in Changtu,           15-36 days    207
irrigated paddy and wheat;  Kangping, Faku, Zhangwu,
and IPM                  Heizhen, Liaoyang, Dengta &
Taian.
Parmer technicians    Extension training on     TATES in project counties as   5-10 days    1,730
irrigated paddy and wheat;  indicated above.
and IPM
Parmers               Production techniques     TATEs in prject counties as   1-5 days   63,621
indicated above.
11. Jiln - Field Crops
Extension
Township staff         Extension training on    CATECs in Songpo, Songqi,   10-20 days    105
irrigated rice           Huajia and Wazhonggao areas
Farmer technicians    Extension training on     TATEs                        5-10 days     300                m x
Irrigated rice
Farmers               Production techniques     TATEs                         1-5 days    4,800
Township staff         Extension training on    CATECs                        10-20 days    100
Irrigated wheat



Total train-
Trainees                   Training topics           Localion of training        Duration    nees (staff-
(days)     months) La
Parmer technician     Extension training on     TATEs                       5-10 days     200
irrigated wheat
Farmers               Production techniques     TATEs                        1-5 days    1,160
111. Liaoning - Farm
Machiner Service
Stations
Managers              Management of machinery  Coun? farm machinery training 7 days       179
stations                 schoo
Equipment operators    Repairs, maintenance and   County farm machinery bureaus 5-7 days   179
operation of farm        and training schools                                          co
equipment
Tractor operators     Operation and simple      County machinery bureaus    2-5 days       179
maintenance of tractors
IV. Jilin - Farm Machinery
Service Stations
Managers              Management of machinery  County/ltownship Agricultural   7 days    2,167
stations                 Machinery Bureau
Equipment operators    Repairs, maintenance and   County farm machinery bureaus 5-7 days    2,167         a :
operation of farm        and training schools
machinery
Tractor operators     Operation and simple      County machinery bureaus     2-5 days    2,167
maintenance of tractors
ta Phased equally over five years.



CIIINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM - IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE COMPONENT
Trainees          Training Topics             Location or training      Duration (days)   Total Trainees
(staTff/months)
1. Llaonine-hrrifallon &
Drainame component
1. Local Tratnine:
Village Technicians    Irrigation Techniques     Township Irrigation       2-3              3462
Station
Township             Irrigation Techniques &                               5-10             312
Technicians                Management                 County Water
Conservancy Bureau        20               24                                 c
County Technidans    Irrigation Techniques &
Management                 Provincial Traiining
Center
2. Overseas Training:
PMO, Provincial nnd      Irrigation & Engineering   USA/Japan                 I5                6
county water resources   Management
stan
Project Engineering &      Australla/Thailand        15               6
Financial                                                                                        0
Management                 USA                       15               6                          m mm
Groundwvater Modeliing &                                                                          U
Assessment
3. T.A
Seminar/Internatlonal   Water Management          Provincial Training       6                 25
Consultant                                        Center



Trainee                 Training Topics          Location of           Duration     Total Traides
Training             (days)       (staff months)
H. Jiln-Irrigation
& Dingp
Componeot
1. Local training
Village Technicians    Irrigation Techniques  Township Irrigation       2-3               400
Station
Township             Irrigation Techiques     County Water             5-10               250
Technidam.            and Maagenat             Conserancy Burea
County Technidans    Irrigation Techniques    Provindal Training        20                 25
an Management            Center
Fanoners
Irrigation Techniques    In Project Cotmtles      2-3               650
2. Overseas  ainin
PMO, Provincial &    - Project Engineering &                            I5
County Water           Finandal Management
resouces staff        - Enginern Design of    USArnluailand               15
Irigation & Drainage
Systems                                            15                6
- Water Saving           Australa
Technique                                         15                6
- Operation &
Maintenane (OSM)
(D X
3. TA
Provincial TrainIng       6                 25
Se,nnarIlnternational   Water Manag d           Center
Consultant
OSM                      Provincial Training        6                25
Center



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Yuan '000                 I Total            USt  000                         I Total
Components                ---------------------- --------a- -  Base   ------ ------ ------E--------------s.X Foreign  ease
Local      Foreign       Total      Costs     Local      Foreign     Total    Exchange   Costs
A. irrigation and Drainage   147,416.4   108,193.3   255,609.7         9.5   16,944.4   12,436.0    29,380.4      42.3       9.5
0. Field Crop Development      41,107.9   146,451.0   181,558.9        7.0    4,M7.0   16,833.4    21,558.5       78.1       7.0
C. orchard Development        155,292.1   108,527.7   263.819.8        9.8   17,849.7   12,474.4    30,324.1      41.1      9.8
0. Soiltlater Conservation    23,334.5    11,321.9    34,656.4         1.3   2,682.1    1,301.4       3,983.5     32.?       1.3
E. Livestock Development      342,274.5   172,804.0   515,078.5       19.2   39,341.9   19,862.5    59,204.4      33.5      19.2
F. Livestock ProcessIng       138,316.1   140,934.2   279,250.3       10.4   15,898.4   16,199.3    32,097.7      50.5     10.4
G. Agro-Processing            321,911.?   604,912.0   926,823.7       34.5   37,001.3   69,530.1   106,531.5      65.3     34.5
N. Aquaculture Development    99,852.3    77,308.8   177,161.1         6.6   11,477.3    8,886.1    20,363.3      43.6      6.6
I. Project Management          14,609.4    31,154.0    45,763.4        1.?    1,679.2    3,580.9     5,260.2      68.1      1.7
.,,............... ..... .....................  .. .... ..................... ...... ............
Total Base Costs          1,284,114.9 1,401,606.9 2,685,721.8        100  147,599.4  161,104.2   308,703.1      52.2    100.0
Physical Contigencies       63,354.7   123,315.7   186,670.4        7.0    7,282.1   14,174.2    21,456.4      66.1      7.0                       I
Price Contingencies        353,375.5   100,630.0   454,005.5       16.9   40,617.9   11,566.7    52,184.5      22.2      16.9
....................................          ..................................
Total Project Costs         1,700,845.1 1,625,5--.6 3,326,397.7    123.9  195,499.4  186,845.1   382,344.6    48.9    123.9
----------------------------s-s-------'-----------s-------------------s---------"-----s-"--s-- ssss------- tu- sssss-ss-ts-
January 7, 1994
m P



Annex 2
86                                                 Table 2
CHINA
SOWGLIAO PLAIN AGRICLLTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
SuMMry Accounts Cost SufmrY
. .................................................................. ...................................................................................................._
Yuan '000                                  U    '000                               S TotaL
.---- - -- ----------- ----------  -  -----------.------------------------S Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign        Total           Local        Foreign        Total      Exchange    Costs
. .......................................................................................................................
I. In ete mnt
A  Land Acquis./Crop Corpn.   27,29.8                  0.0     27,829.8          3,198.8           0.0      3,198.5           0       1.0
B. Civil Works
1. Works                        122,985.0    80,44S.9   203,433.9            14,136.2       9,247.0      23,383.2       39.5        7.6
2. SuiLdings                    171,317.9   174,229.3   345,547.2            19,691.7    20,026.4    39,718.1           50.4       12.9
....................................           ........................................................................
Sub-Total                      294,302.9   254,678.2   548,981.1            33,827.9    29,273.4    63,101.3           46.4      20.4
C. Equipmwnt L Machirwry
1. Irrigation Equipment          61,216.0    76,446.8   137,662.8             7,036.3       8,787.0      15,823.3       55.5       5.1
2. Agriculture Equipment          3,998.6       7,459.4      11,458.0           459.6         857.4       1,317.0       65.1        0.4
3. Livestock Equipment           14,010.9    16,745.7    30,756.6             1,610.4       1,924.8       3,535.2       54.4        1.1
4. Livestock Proces. Equip    9,609.2    58,667.0    68,276.2                 1,104.5       6,743.3       7,847.8       85.9        2.5
S. Agro-Processing Equip.    33,133.2   438,935.5   472,068.7                 3,415.8    s0,452.4        53,368.2       93.7       17.4
6. Aquaculture Equipment          5,091.8      18,1s8.9      23,257.7            586.1      2,087.2       2,673.3       75.1        0.9
7. Office Equipment               1,701.8      10,389.4      12,091.2            195.6      1,194.2       1,389.8       85.9        0.5
.............................................................................  .................................
Sub-TotaL                      128,768.5   626,802.7   755,571.2            14,408.4      72,046.3      86,454.6       83.3      28.0
D. Vehicles
1. Trucks                         4,937.0    67,708.9    72,645.9                567.5      7,78.6        8,350.1       93.2        2.7
2. Tractors                       3,243.1    44,549.9    47,793.0                372.8      5,120.7       5,493.4       93.2        1.8
3. IpLwments                       5,770.6    11,185.5       16,956.1            663.3      1,285.7       1,949.0       66.0        0.6
.................................  ..........................................  .................................
Sub-TotaL                       13,950.7   123,444.3    137,395.0             1,603.5     14,189.0      15,792.5       89.8        5.1
E. Materials
1. Imported Materials             4,771.3   138,322.1    143,093.4               548.4    15,899.1       16, 447.5      96.7        5.3
2. Locat MateriaLs              250,391.7    90,249.6   340,641.3            28,780.7    10,373.5        39,154.2       26.5       12.7
.................. .......................................................  .................................
Sub-Total                      255,163.0   228,571.7   483,734.7            29,329.1      26,272.6    55,601.7         47.3       18.0
F. Labor
1. UnskilLed Labor              112,380.0            0.0   112,380.0         12,917.2            0.0     12,917.2        0.0        4.2
2. Manag emnt                     3,479.0       3,540.0       7,019.0            399.9         406.9         806.8      50.4        0.3
....................................           ........................................................................
Sub-Totcl                      115,859.0       3,540.0    119,399.0         13,317.1         406.9      13,724.0        3.0        4.4
G.Training
1. Overseas Training                 294.5      8,540.0       8,834.5             33.9         981.6       1,015.5      96.7        0.3
2. Domestic Training              19,588.2    19,931.8       39,520.0          Z,251.5       2,291.0       4,542.5       50.4       1.5
3. Research                        1,077.4       1,096.3       2,173.7           123.8         126.0         249.9       50.4        0.1
....................................           ........................................................ ................
Sub-Total                       20,960.1      29,568.1      50,528.2          2,409.2      3,398.6        5,807.8       58.5       1.9
H. InternationaL Conaultant             23.7         686.1         709.a              2.7          78.9          81.6      96.7        0.0
1. Working Capital                307,384.5            0.0   307,384.5          35,331.6            0.0    35,331.6         0.0       11.4
J. Others
1. Design                         7,872.0    28,035.7        35,907.7            904.3       3,222.5       4,127.3       78.1       1.3
2. Supervision                   58,344.0    59,367.5    117,711.5             6,706.2       6,82.9    13,530.1          50.4       4.4
3. Freight 4 Insurance             2,851.3    39,167.9    42,019.2               327.7       4,502.1       4,829.8       93.2        1.6
4. Misceltenous                  50,805.4        7,744.7      58,550.1         5,839.7         590.2       6,729.9       13.2        2.2
....................................            ............  ............................................    
Sub-Total                      119,872.7   134,315.8   254,188.5             13,778.5    15,438.6    29,217.1           52.8        9.5
TotaL Basse Costs               1,284,114.9 1,401,606.9 2,685,721.8            147,599.4   161,104.2   308,703.7            52.2     100.0
Physical Contingencies           63,354.7   123,315.7   186,670.4              7,282.1      14,174.2    21,456.4         66.1        7.0
Price Contingencies             353,375.5    100,630.0   454,005.5            40,617.9      11,566.7    52,184.5         22.2       16.9
....................................            ........................................................ ................
TotaL Project Costs              1,700,845.1 1,625,552.6 3,326,397.7           195,49.4   186,645.1   382,344.6            48.9      123.9
January 7, 1994



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIAONING PROVINCE
Project Cost Summ ry
VuanO0o                            UStOo                          X Total
------..  X foreign      Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local   Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
.. ................. ....... ...................   . ................................ ... ...  ... .... . ............. .
A . Irrigation and Drainage        90058.4    78622.8   168681.2      12161.7   7226.9  19388.6          46.6       14.2
*   field Crop Developnent         16446.2   55021.?    71467.9       2218.6   5996.1   8214.?            77.0       6.0
C  Orchard Development            127208.8   91518.5   218727.4       15533.3   9607.8  25141.1          41.8       18.4
D . Livestock Development          98937.?   47916.9   146854.5       12572.6   4307.2   16879.8          32.6      12.4
E . Livestock Processing           28785.2   26732.0    55517.2        3679.7   2701.6   6381.3           48.2       4.7
F . Aquaculture Development        99852.3    77308.8   177161.1      12815.5   7547.8  20363.3          43.6       14.9
G . Agro-Processing               123382.1   198332.9  321715.1       15908.9  21069.9  36978.7           61.6      27.1
N . Project Mnagement               9664.5    16675.4    26339.9       1298.5    1729.0   3027.6          63.3        2.2                                1
.. .. ................. ............  ...................... ... .. ....  .... . .... ........... ...   .                 . 
Total BASELINE COSTS               594335.3  592129.1  1186464.3      76188.8  60186.4  136375.2           44.1      100.0
Physical Contingemices           32813.8   53186.6   86000.4         3771.7   6113.4   9885.1           61.8        7.2
Price Contingencies              164027.2   40828.3   204855.5      10979.3   12567.3  23546.6          53.4       17.3
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    . .... ... ..... ........ ....... . - - - - - - - - - - -
lotal PROJECTS COSTS               791176.&- 686144.0  1477320.3      90939.8   78867.1  169806.9          46.4      124.5
___._     ,   _,,_, _.. .................... ............................................ ...... ........... .._.... ...........__....... _._._.. . . . .
1/7/1994  16:26
(D



- 88 -
Annex 2
Table 3.1
CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICOILTLtAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIAONING PROVINCE
Sumary Accounits CaSt Sumry
YuanOOO                                     uSSOoO                                   2 Total
---- ----------------------.-----             -----------------------------                Foreign         Base
Local      Foreign         Total           Local   Foreign          Totsl        Exchange          Costs
1. IVESTIMENT COSTS
A. Lard Acquisition                        13226.4           0.0      13226.4           1520.3          0.0     1520.3               0.0           1.1
B. CiviI Works
1. Uorks                               69565.7      45505.4    115071.1             9258.6      3968.0    13226.6               39.5           9.7
2. buildings                           56469.9       57460.6    113930.5            7857.3      5238.2    13095.5               50.4           9.6
., ,,...... ,,,,..........................   ....................... .. .._. ...    --------------------
Sub-Total                                 126035.6    102966.0    229001.6             17115.9      9206.2    26322.0               45.0          19.3
C. EquiPment/Machinery
1. Irrigation Equipment                479U8.4       59928.1    107'916.5           6822.3      5581.9    12404.2                55.5           9.1
2. Agriculture Equipment                 1390.8       3527.3        S418.0            280.2       342.5       622.8              65.1           0.5
3. Livestock Equipwnt                    3981.4       4969.2        8950.5            566.0       462.8      1020.8              55.5           0.8
4. Livestock Processing Eq.              2158.5      13178.3       15336.9            352.6      1410.3      1762.9              85.9           1.3
5. Agro-processing Equip.               10018.2    137619.1    147637.4             1697.0    15272.8    16969.8                 93.2          12.4
6. Aquaculture Equipment                 5098.8      13158.9       23257.7            802.0      1871.3      2673.3              78.1           2.0
7. Office Equipment                       818.0       4993.8        5811.8            133.6       534.4       668.0              835.9          0.5
Sub-Total                                  71954.1    242374.7    314328.7             10653.7    25476.1    36129.7                77.1          26.5
D. VehicLes
1. Trucks                                3060.4      42040.2       45100.6           518.4      4665.6       5184.0             93.2           3.8
2. Tractors                               942.0      12940.1       13882.1            159.6      1436.1      1595.6              93.2           1.2
3.  liwiements                               0.0          0.0           0.0             0.0         0.0          0.0              0.0           0.0
Sub-Totcl                                    4002.4      54980.3       58982.7           678.0      6101.7       6779.6             93.2            5.0
E. Materists
1. Imported Materials                    2932.1      84984.2       87916.3           505.5      9599.8    10105.3                96.7           7.4
2. Local Materials                     132829.1      45621.8    178450.9           16714.3.   3797.3    20511.6                  25.6          15.0
.................................  ..............................  ......................
Sub-Total                                 135761.2    130606.0    266367.2             17219.8    13397.1    30616.9                 49.0         22.5
F. Labour
1. Unskilled Labor                      67680.6           0.0      67680.6          7779.4          0.0      7779.4               0.0           5.7
2. management                             oS2.0         866.9        1718.9           118.5        79.0        197.6             50.4           0.1
Sub-Total                                  68532.6           66. 9     69399.5          7597.9         79.0      7977.0               1.2           5.8
G. Training
1. Overseas Training                      157.6       4569.7        4727.3             27.2       516.2       543.4              96.7           0.4
2. Domestic Training                     5939.5        6043.7       11983.2           826.4       551.0       1377.4             50.4            1.0
3. Research                                264.1        268.7         532.8            36.7         24.5        61.2              50.4           0.0
.................................             ...._......................... . ......................
Sub-Total                                    6361.1      108U2.1        17243.2           890.3      1091.6       1982.0             63.1            1.5
H. Technical Assistance
1. International Consultant                  3.5        101.5         105.0              0.6        11.5        12.1             96.7           0.0
2. Local Consultant                          0.0          0.0           0.0              0.0         0.0         0.0               0.0           0.0
................................. ............................... ---------------------
Sub-Total                                        3.5        101.5         105.0             0.6         11.5        12.1             96.7           0.0
1. Working Capital                        11U81.6            0.0    11831.6           13607.1          0.0    13607.1                0.0          10.0
J. Others
1. Design                                3167.9      11282.1       1450.0             490.3      1162.6       1660.9             78.1            1.2
2. Supervision                          23272.9      23681.1       46954.0           3238.2      2158.8       5397.0              50.4           4. 0
3. Freight Z Insurance                    829.4       11393.1       12ZZ2.4            140.5      1264.4      1404.9              93.2           1.0
4. Niscellenous                         22806.7        2995.3       25801.9          2728.3        237.4      2965.7              11.6           2.2
.................................             ................................................... .......................... ....................... ...........
Sub-Total                                   50076.8      49351.6       99428.3           6605.3      4823.3    11428.5               49.6           8.4
..._........... .............................    ................... _   .......................................    ----------------------
.................................             .............................. ..................... ..............................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS                      594335.3    592129.1   118646.3              7618B.8    60186.4   136375.2                 44.1         100.0
Physical ContIngencies                  32813.8      53186.6       86000.4           3771.7      6113.4      95aS.1              61.8           7.2
Price Contingencies                    164027.2      40828.3    204855.5            10979.3    12567.3    23546.6                53.4          17.3
.................................             .............................. . ......................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                      791176.2    686144.0   1477320.3             90939.8    7U867.1   169806.9                 46.4         124.5
.................................................... .......................................................................
1/7/199W      16:30



- 89 -
Annex 2
Table 3.2
CHI NA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIAONING PROVINCE
Summry Accounts by Year
BaSe Costs                                     Foreign Exchange
94/95      95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99       Total          X     Amomt
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Lsnd Acquisition                 13226.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    13226.4           0.0         0.0
B. Civil Work&
1. Works                        50505.8   30735.1    15414.5    11212.4       7203.2  115071.1           39.5    45505.4
2. Buildings                     69952.8   30988.9   12504.6        48.2         0.0   113930.5          50.4    57460.6
Sub-total                          120458.6    61724.0   27919.1    11696.6       7203.2   229001.6         45.0   102966.0
C. Equipment/Machinery
1. Irrigation Equipment          41192.5   26633.3   17814.5    14049.5    8226.7   107916.5             55.5    59928.1
2. Agriculture Equipnent          2649.9     1430.9      975.6      266.5        95.2     5418.0         65.1      3527.3
3. Livestock Equipment            3365.1     3369.6    Z197.2         18.6        0.0     8950.5         55.5      4969.2
4. Livestock Processing Eq.       4629.5    10707.3        0.0        0.0         0.0    15336.9         85.9    13178.3
5. Agro-processing Equip.        54899.3   92738.1         0.0        0.0         0.0   147637.4         93.2   137619.1
6. Aquaculture Equipment          9258.7    13087.6      473.5      437.9         0.0   23257.7          78.1    18158.9
7. Office Equipment               5268.3      543.5        0.0        0.0        0.0      5811.8         85.9     4993.8
Sub-total                          121263.3  14S510.3   21460.7   14772.4    8321.9  314328.7               77.1   242374.7
D. Vehicles
1. Trucks                        24306.9    15588.6    5038.5       160.6        5.9    45100.6          93.2    42040.2
2. Tractors                       5452.6    4155.8    2976.8        943.2      353.7    13882.1          93.2    12940.1
3. Implaments                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0
Sub-total                           29759.6    19744.4    8015.4      1103.8       359.6   58982.7          93.2    54980.3
E. Materials
1. Inmorted materials            21266.1    23702.1    19983.8    15369.8     7594.3    87916.3          96.7   84984.2
2. Local materials               63047.8    59637.8   43175.8    10599.8       1989.7   178450.9         25.6    4S621.8
Sub-total                           84314.0    83339.9   63159.6   25969.6        95J4.1   266367.2         49.0   130606.0
F. Labour
1. Unskilled labor               20004.0    19180.3   14179.0      9882.9    4434.5   67680.6             0.0         0.0
2. Management                      668.2      693.6      296.6       58.1         2.4     1718.9         50.4       866.9
Sub-total                           20672.2    19873.9    14475.6     9941.0    "436.9   6939.5               1.2      866.9
G. Training
1. Overseas Training              3719.0      895.8       37.5       37.5        37.5     4727.3         96.7      4569.7
2. Domestic Training              3864.9     5198.9     1568.5       804.0      546.9    11913.2          50.4     6043.7
3. Research                        446.8       49.6       12.1        12.1       12.1      532.8          50.4      268.7
Sub-total                            8030.6     6144.3    1618.1        853.6      596.5    17243.2          63.1    10882.1
M. Technical Assistance
1. International Consultant         60.0       45.0        0.0         0.0        0.0      105.0          96.7      101.5
2. Local Consultant                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0
Sub-total                              60.0       45.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       105.0         96.7       101.5
I.  Working Capital                 14887.3    15721.6   57629.6    15573.0    14570.0   113081.6             0.0        0.0
J. Others
1. Design                        12161.4     1925.9      362.6         0.0        0.0    1450.0           78.1    11282.1
2. Supervision                    6726.9   34172.1      2776.9      2095.4     1182.7    46954.0          50.4   23681.1
3. Freight 9 Insurance            4588.3     7634.1         0.0        0.0        0.0    12222.4          93.2    11393.1
4. Miscellenous                  12671.7     5907.4    3692.4       2306.8     1223.6   25801.9           11.6     2995.3
Sub-total                           36148.3    49639.6    6832.0       4402.2     2406.3    99428.3          49.6    49351.6
Total BASELINE COSTS               448U20.4  404743.0  201110.2   84312.3    47478.4  1186464.3              49.9   592129.1
Physical Contingencies          .1YUb.d  JSU81.6    11261.4    5409.5          2581.2    86000.4          61.8   53186.6
Price Contingencies              37725.3    60316.7   55955.3    29964.1    20894.1  204855.5             19.9   40828.3
................................................................... .......................
Total PROJECT COSTS                522452.5  495901.4   268326.8  119685.9    70953.7  1477320.3             46.4   686144.0
----------------s                         sssnssans . s.           .      s
Taxes                                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                269411.7  276872.9   78369.7   40652.2    20837.5  686144.0              100.0  686144.0
..........................................................................................................................
1/7/1994  16:30



StJtGtAlo PtAlA  AGOItIt AtURAt  trvFtDrwttEI rIOJECI
Staw..ry Accouits by Tenr
totals Incliultq tongtIhgencies                                                      totals Includinj Contingencmes
Ytiml()0                                                                             ustooo
94/95        95/96        96/91        97/98        98/99         Total           94/5         95/96        96/97        9798          98/99        total
.......... s2                    ......  ** ....................t ...           ......a............*fl3l ....  ..0* ................................
1. IuVESIttEt costS
................
A. Ltns r Acquisltion                       14615.2          0.e           0.0          0.0          0.0      14615.2          1679.9           0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0      1679.9
0. civil Uorks
1.  orkts                              5975Z.3       30932.4      20785.7      16012.4       10043.9    11.6326.7          E88.I        4475.0       2389.2        l8o.O.5      1246.4      16819.2
2. Buldilngs                            86283.3    41896.4        18202.6         749.9          0.0   147132.3            9917.6       4815.7       2092 3          06.2           0.0     16911.8
Stub-lotl                                 146035.6      80828.8       388M.4       16762.3      10843.9   293459.0            1678S.r       920. 7       4481.4       1926.7        1246.4      3730.9
C. E quiraent/luatchlnery
I. IrrigltIon iqulpwrit                42139.9      33nno.2       23361.0      19374.6    11n38.7    135941.4              5544.8       3802.3       26,5.2       2227.0        1366.2      15625.4
2. Agriculture tEueir'.nt                3084.2       1756.2       1257.6         359.7        134.0       6591.6           354.5        201.9         144.6         41.3          15.4       751.7
3. tIvetlack Equtlvnst                   3940.9       4185.5       2811. 3         25.6          0.0      11(33.2           453.0        481.1        331.2           2.9          0.0       1268.2
4. lIvestock Processing Eql.             5316.0      12797.5           0.0          0.0          0.0      II13.4           611.0        1471.0          0.0          0.0          0.0       20'2.0
5. Agro prc.esslr'g Equlip.            62739.4   109799.0              n.o         .00           0.0    172538.5           7211.4      12620.6           0.0          0.0          0.0      19832.0
6. Aquaculture EquIpment                10686.1    15800.7           596.1        573.6          0.0     27656.5           1228.3        1116.2         68.5         65.9           0.0      3178.9
7. office Equipment                      6049.4        649.6           0.0          0,0          0.0      6699. 0           695.           74.           0.0          0.0          0.0        770.0
Stb-oetal                                 140055.9    178068.7        28096.0      20133.5      12019.7   378573.8            16098.4      20467.7       3229.4       2337.2        1381.6      £3514.2
D. Vehlclet
1. Irtcks                              27568.6    111412.1         6116.6         202.9          7.7     52357.8           316a.8       2116.3         708.8         23.3          0.9       6018.1
2. trwclors                              6231.3       4920.3       36A..3        1191.6        460.4      16447.0            116.2        565.6        418.8        137.0          s2.9       1590.5
3. IOplements                               0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0              0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Stb-lotal                                  33799.9       23332.4       9809.9        1394.5       468.1      68804.8           3885.0       2681.9        1127.6        160.3         53.8       7908.6
E  Materllas
1. Imported Materials                   24248.2     27936.4       24297.0      19254.9       9787.1    105524.4            270i.1       3211.1        2792.8       2213.2       1125.0      12129.z
2. toetl Miaterials                     73716.1      75196.0      S ?s6.        15724.5       3203.4   225726.4            8473.1        8643.2       6653.6       1807.4         3,8.2    25V945.6
SEA)- total 97964.    103132.4                                        21813.9     34979.7      1299.s5   331250.6            11260.3      11854.3        9446.4       £020.7       1493.2      38074.8
I. t nbnur
1. Unskilled Itbor                     23178.8      26534.2       22232.1      11192.2       8486.3      98223.5           2733.2        3049.9       2555.4       1976.1        975.4      11290.1
2. Mlanagement                            742.9        811.3         373.6         73.?          3.2       2004.7             85.4         93.3         42.9           8.5          0.4        230.4
...................................................................                  ....................................................................................................................................
Stbltotal                                  24521.?    27345.4         22605.7    1265.1         8489.5    100228.3            2816.6        3143.2       2598.4       1984.6        975.8       11520.5
C. trainIng
1. Overseas training                     3855.0        959.8          41.5         42.7         43.9       4942.9           443.1         110.3          4.8           4.9          5.0        568.1
2. gometlc trainint                      4185.4       5974.1        1922.0       1019.4        72m.9      13829.4            481.1        686.7        220.9         111.2         83.7       1589.6
3. Ieseerct                               471.2         56.4          14.6         15.4         16.1        579.7             54.6          6.5           1.7          1.8           1.9        66.6
,...................................................................              . .............................. ......... .............. ...................................................
uk-total                   .5851r.5                      6990.9        1978.0       10?7.5         788.0      19351.9           979.0         803.6        227.4        123.8          90.6       2224.4
U. Technical Assistance
|. internatItoal Comsultent                62.2         48.2           0.0          0.0          0.0        110.4              7.1           5.5          0.0          0.0          0.0          12.7       1 
2. total Consultant                         0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0  O 
.................................................................                    ....................* ------------------------------------------.  
Sth-Ittel                                      62.2         £8.2           0.0          0.0          0.0        110.4              7.1          5.5          0.0          0.0           0.0         12.7
1. Uorkiln  Capital                        16760.6      19478.9       75929.4      21936.3    21926.9    156032.1              1926.5       2239.0       8727.5       2521.4        25ZO.3      11934.7
J. Others
1. Oeqlgn                              14036.3        2325.2        456.6           0.0          0.0      16818.0          1613.4        267.3          57.5          0.0           0.0       1933.1
2. Supervislon                           7271.6      35J969.7      3431I.        2718.8       1612.3      54004.1           815.5        4479.3        394.4        312.5         185.3       6207.4
3. freight A Insurance                  4766.9        8216.9           0.0          0.0          0.0      12983.6           547.9         944.5          0.0          0.0           0.0       1492.1
4. Mlscecllenou                         14044.9       7163.7       447.3         32171.6      11ri4.6     31011.0           1614.4        023.4        557.2        369.8         208.6       3573.3
...................... .............................................................  -...........................    . ....................................   ..............................
Stb-lotal                                  40119.6      56675.5        8735.5       5936.3       3427.0    11489.1.9           £611.5       6514.4        1004.1        682.3         393.9      13206.2
.ITT_TT==  r ...: fr,7T= .... -==:-:               .....:r:::s2e-*-   --=t-t- .. sr ss  2t::=-:t.*!                              tt=-= t,ttT ts,.--
lotal PNOJEtC  COStS                      522452.5   495901.4    268326.8    119615.9    70953.7   1477320.1                  6il052.0     57000.2      30842.2      13757.0        8155.6    169806.9
,............... ......         ...................            .............. .....  ........ e ......... ...................................
1/11/1994   14:02



CHINA
SOWGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP8ENT PROJECT
JILIN PROVINCE
Project Cost SLimry
YuanOOO                                 USSOO                              X Total
-----    ------------------------------    X Foreign          Base
Local     Foreign       Total          Local   Foreign       Total       Exchange        Costs
A . irrigatlon and Dralnage
1. Jilln IrrigationtDrainage         12925.2    10660.4    23585.6           1735.3      975.7    2711.0             45.2          1.6
2. Changchun Irrig.ZDrainage         44432.8    18910.1    63342.9           5596.6    1684.2    7280.8              29.9          4.2
Sub-Total                                57358.0    29570.5    86928.5            7331.9    2659.9    9991.8              34.0         5.8
a . Field Crop Development
I. Jilin Field Crop                   999.7    59082.4    69082.1            1423.1    6517.4    7940.5              85.5          4.6
2. Changchun Field Crop              14662.0    32346.9    47008.9           1980.4    3422.9    5403.3              68.8          3.1
-- - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -      --  - - - - -  - -- - -  - - - -     .   .  ......  ........   .......................... .......... ....... .
Sub-Total                                24661.7    91429.3   116091.0            3403.5    9940.3   13343.8              78.8         7.7
C . orchard Development
1. Jilin orchard Developaent         28083.3    17009.2    45092.5           3487.7    1695.3    5183.1              37.7          3.0
2. Changchun Orchard Devpt.              0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0         0.0        0.0            0.0          0.0
Sub-Total                                28083.3    17009.2    45092.5            3487.7    1695.3    5183.1              37.7         3.0
0 . Changchun SolitUater Con.           23334.5    11321.9    34656.4            2891.6    1091.9    3983.5              32.7         2.3
E . Livestock Development
1. Jilin Livestock Devpt.           147162.3    80180.5   227342.8          18588.2    7243.1   26131.4              35.3         15.2
2. Changchun Livestock Devpt         96174.5    44706.6   140881.1          12206.7    3986.5   16193.2              31.7          9.4                              I
............. ....................    .  .. ------------------------------ . . --...-----------..--
Sub-Total                               243336.8   124887.1   368223.9           31095.0   11229.6   42324.6              33.9        24.6
r . tivestock Processing
1. Jilin Liv. Processing             42426.4    36362.6    78789.0           5452.6    3603.6    9056.2              46.2          5.3
2. Changchun Liv. Processing         67104.4    77839.6   144944.0           8572.2    8088.0   16660.2              53.7          9.7
Sub-Total                                109530.9   114202.2   223733.0          14024.9   11691.6   25716.4              51.0         14.9
C . Agro-processing
1. Jilin Agro-Processing            109747.5   243929.2   353676.7          14485.4   26167.1   40652.5              69.0         23.6
2. Changchun Agro-Processing        a8782.1    162649.8   251431.9          11631.8   17268.4   28900.2              64.7         16.8
.... ..... .... ...... ...........--.--.   ------------------------------- -------------------......
Sub-Total                               198529.6   406579.1   605108.7           26117.2   43435.5   69552.7              67.2         40.4
N . Project Management                                                                                                                              *         
1. Jilin Prolect Management           3333.3    10535.0    13868.3            477.0    1117.1    1594.1              76.0          0.9                 o X
2. Changchun Project Mgt.             1611.7      3963.6       5555.3         227.5      411.1       638.5            71.0         0.4
.. --                                                                       ----------------------
Sub-Total                                  4944.9    14478.6    19423.6            704.4    1528.2    2232.6              74.5          1.3
.                                       .----...  ......................
Total BASELINE COSTS                    689779.8   809477.9  1499257.7           89056.2   83272.3  172328.5              48.3        100.0
Physical Contingencies                30540.9    70129.1   100670.0            3510.4    8060.8   11571.3              69.7         6.7
Price Contingencies                  189348.3    59801.7   249150.0           11993.0   16644.9   28637.9              58.1         16.6
------------------- ..... ......................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    909668.9   939408.7  1849077.7          104559.6  107978.0  212537.7              50.8        123.3
=22 -------   ---U=3-=3UU3U-- ---S23--                3UWU23= U2323su    2=r=2==W- =uzU
.........................................................................................................._
1/7/1994  15:20



- 92 -
Annex 2
Table 4.1
CHINA
SOUGLIAO PLAIN AGRIaUL TURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.JILINI PROVINCE
StUiMry ACcounits Cast SummNary
TuanOGO                               ussooo                              % Total
.... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...  ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..    Foreign  Base
Local    Foreign       Total         Local   Foreign       Total       Exchange       Costs
I. iNVESTMENT COSTS
A. Land Acquisition                   14603.4         0.0    14603.4        1678.6        0.0    1671.6             0.0         1.0
I. Civil Works
1. Works                          53419.3    34943.5    8832.8           7109.6    3047.0   101S6.6             39.5         5.9
2. Buildings                     114848.0   116768.7   231616.7         15978.6   10644.0   26622.6             50.4        15.4
Sub-Total                           168267.3   151712.2   319979.4         23088.2   13691.0   36779.2             47.4        21.3
C. Fquipment/Klachlrery
1. Irrigation Equipment           13227.6    16518.7    29746.3          1880.5    1538.6    3419.1             55.5         2.0
2. Agriculture Equipment           2107.8      3932.1      6039.9         312.4      381.8      694.2           65.1         0.4
3. Livestock Prod. Equipment    10030.2    11776.5    21806.6            1414.5    1092.0    2506.S             54.0         1.5
4. Livestock Processing Eq.         7450.7   4.5488.7    52939.5         1217.0    4868.0    6085.0             85.9         3.5
S. Agro.ProceSSing Equip.         23115.0   301316.4   324431.4          3905.8   33385.2   37291.0             92.9        21.6
6. AQuaculture Equipment               0.0         0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0            0.0         0.0
7. Office Equipuent                 883.8      5395.6      6279.3         144.4      577.4      721.8           815.9        0.4
Sub-Total                             56815.1   384428.0   441243.1         8874.6   41843.0   50717.6             87.1        29.4
0. Vehicles
1. Trucks                          1868.6    25668.7    27537.3           316.5    2848.7    3165.2             93.2         1.8
2. Tractors                        2301.1    3`1609.8    33910.9          389.8    3508.0    3897.8             93.2         2.3
3. Implements                      5770.6    11185.5    16956.1           850.3    1098.7    1949.0             66.0         1.1
Sub-1otal                              9940.3    68464.0    78404.3          1556.6    7455.4    9012.0            87.3         5.2
E. Materiass
1. Imported Materials              18339.2    53337.9    55177.1          317.1    6025.1    6342.2             96.7         3.7
2. Local materials               117S62.6    44627.8   162190.46        14923.2    3719.4   18642.6             27.5        10.8
Sub-Total                            119401.8    97965.7   217367.5         15240.3    9744.4   24984.8            45.1        14.5
F. Labour
1. Unskilled labor                44699.4         0.0    44699.4         5137.9        0.0    5137.9             0.0         3.0
2. management                       2627.0     2673.1      5300.2         365.5      243.7      609.2           50.4         0.4
.--  - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -       - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -   - -  - - - - - -  - - -
Sub-Total                             47326.4      2673.1    49999.5         5503.4     243.7    5747.1             5.3         3.3
G. Training
1. Overseas Training                 136.9     3970.3      4.107.2         23.6      448.5      472.1           96.7         0.3
2. Comestic Training               13648.7    13888.1    27536.8          1899.1    1266.1    3165.2             50.4         1.8
3. Research                          813.3       827.6      1640.9         113.2       75.4     188.6            S0.4         0.1
...  . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . .       . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . .   .  . . . . . .  . . . .
Sub-Tots(                             14598.9    18686.0    33284.9          2035.9    1790.0    3825.8             56.1         2.2
H. Technical Assistance
1. International Consultant           20.2       584.6      604.8            3.5       66.0      69.5            96.7         0.0
2. Local Consultant                    0.0         0.0         0.0           0.0        0.0        0.0            0.0         0.0
...  . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . .       - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -    . . . . . .  . . . . .
Sub-Total                                20.2       584.6       604.8           3.5       66.0       69.5           96.7         0.0
I. Working Capital                   189002.9         0.0   1891002.9       21724.5        0.0   21724.5             0.0        12.6
J1. Others
1. Design                           4704.2    16753.6    21457.8           739.9    1726.5    2466.4             721.1        1.4
2. Supervision                     35071.1    35686.4.   70757.5          4879.8    3253.2    8133.0             50.4         4.7
3. Freight 4 Insurance              2021.9    27774.8    29796.7           342.5    3082.4    3424.9             93.2         2.0
4. Miscellenous                    28006.3      4749.6    32755.9         33818.5     376.5    3765.0            14.5         2.2
...  . . . .  . . . . .  . . . . .       . . .  . . . . . .  . . . . . .    . . . . .  . . . . .  .
Sub-Total                             69803.5    84964.4   154767.9          9350.8    8438.6   17789.4             54.9        10.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                 689779.8   809477.9  1499257.7         819056.2   83272.3  172328.5           4-8.3       100.0
Physical Contingencies            30540.9    70129.1   100670.0           3510.4    8060.    11571.3             69.7         6.7
Price Contingemicis              189348.3    59801.7   249150.0          11993.0   16644.9   28637.9             58.1        16.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                909668.9   939408.7  1849077.7         104559.6  107978.0  212537.7             50.8       123.3
......... ........ ......... ........ .......U.......UU......... ........ .      ZU...... ........ ......... ........ ........



CHINA
SONGIIAtO PLAIN ACRICIJLTUtAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JILIN PROVINCE
Suuwry Accounts by Tear
Ease Costs                                     Foreign Exchange
94/95      95/96       96/9-      97/98      98/99       Total          I      Awaomnt
1. INVEStMENT COSTS
,...................
A. Lwnd Acquisltion                 14603.4         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0    14603.4           0.0         0.0
8. Civit WIorks
1. Vorks                         41582.6    26453.9    15535.2      2240.6      2250.5    88362.8          39.5    34943.5
2. Buildings                    134034.3    72857.9    24555.0        169.5        0.0   231616.7          50.4   116768.7
St-tolotl                          175616.9    9311.8    40390.2        2410.1     2250.5   319979.4          41.4   151712.2
C. Equipment/Machinery
1. IrrigatIon Equi,mment          8033.5     8248.3      7196.2     3689.7      2578.6    29746.3          55.5    16518.7
2. Agriculture Equipment          2180.5      1323.0     1159.2      830.4       546.7     6039.9          65.1     3932.1
3. Livestock Prod. Eequipment     5936.9    12474.0      1317.9      890.5      1187.4    21806.6          54.0    11776.5
4. tivestock Processing Eq.       9334.3    43605.1         0.0         0.0        0.0    52939.5          85.9    45488.7
5. Agro-Processing Equip.        61364.3   184028.1    79039.0          0.0        0.0   324431.4          92.9   301316.4
6. Aquaculture Equipment             0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
7. office Equipment               4818.2      1461.1        0.0         0.0        0.0     6279.3          85.9     5395.6
sub-total                           91667.8   251139.6    88712.3       5410.7     4312.7   441243.1          87.1   384428.0
D. Vehicles
1. Trucks                        10166.1    16487.0       442.1      442.1         0.0    27537.3          93.2    25668.7
2. Tractbrs                       7054.5     6961.7      6631.6     6631.6      6631.6    33910.9          93.2    31609.8
3. Ielements                     3399.2      3858.9     3232.6      3232.6     3232.6    16956.1          66.0    11185.5
Sut-total                           20619.8    27307.6    10306.3    10306.3       9864.2    70404.3          87.3    68464.0
E. Materinis
1. loprted Mnterilnts             4870.8    11734.4    11745.4    12826.0    14000.5    55177.1            96.7    53337.9                                   '°
2. Local Materials               74104.2    63549.1    21107.7       1642.0     1787.4   162190.4          27.5    44627.8
sub-total                           78975.0    75283.6    32853.0    14468.0    15787.8   217367.5            45.1    97965.7
*. tabour
1. Unslilled labor                9877.6    12599.8    11956.0      4554.6      5711.4    44699.4           0.0         0.0
2. mnnsgewent                     1496.3      2441.6     1338.0        12.1       12.1      5300.2         50.4      2673.1
Sub-total                           11373.9    15041.4    13294.0       4566.7     5723.5    49999.5            5.3     2673.1
G. Iraining
1. oversems training              3476.9      630.3         0.0         0.0        0.0     4107.2          96.7      3970.3
2.  omestic training              9448.4    13354.0      2268.6      1271.2     1194.6    27536.8          50.4    13888.1
3. Research                        447.3       9ZI.2      151.3        90.8       30.3      16140.9        50.4       827.6
Sti-totnl                           13372.6    14905.5      2419.9      1362.0      1224.9   31284.9           56.1    186.0
N. Technical Assistalnce
1. Internatlenal Consultant          0.0      604.8         0.0         0.0        0.0       604.8         96.7       584.6
2. tocal Canmultant                  0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0           0.0        0.0
Sub-total                               0.0       604.8         0.0        0.0         0.0      604.8          96.7      584.6
1. Working Capital                  23903.9    23989.0    87370.0    26880.0    26860.0   189002.9              0.0        0.0         .         D
J. Others                           15748.4       767.2     4060.7       451.0      430.5    21457.8           78.1    16753.6                J  0
2. Supervision                    4081.3    57737.3      5312.9      1764.0     1862.0    70757.5           50.4    35686.4               0  >I
3. Freight A Insurance            1440.9    28355.9         0.0         0.0        0.0    29796.7           93.2    27774.8
4. MIsceltenous                  20025.3      6110.6     3787.4      1313.7      1518.9    32755.9          14.5     4749.6                .-s
Sub-total                           41295.8    92971.1    13161.0       3528.6      3811.4   154767.9          54.9    84964.4
......................................................................................
lotal BASELINE COSTS               471429.2   600554.4   288506.7    68932.4    69835.0  1499257.7             54.0   809477.9
Physical Contingencies           34313.5    42379.4    17253.0       3370.4     3353.7   100670.0           69.7    70129.1
Price Contingencies              43218.8  o4041.7    70450.6    22619.9    28818.9   249150.0               24.0    59801.7
...................................................................  ......................
total PROJECI COSTS                548961.4   726975.5   376210.4    94922.8   102007.7  1849077.7             50.8   939408.7
-=:s:wse:---- ... T.z-*...-------- ...S...   ....  =Z2 ...        22* .......* .... a... *t * sts
Toses                                0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0           0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                262782.8   448357.0   158741.9   34271.3    35255.7   939408.7             100.0  939408.7
......................................................   ................................................    ..................
1/?/1994  15:21



CHINA
5ONClAO PLAIN ACRICUtItAtAt   fVEWLPt PROJECT
JILIN PsOVIsc
Sumr  Acemts by year
totsls Inctlding Caelteing l .                                                 Totals Including ContinyencIes
- tIuem                                                                         USO00
.............................................. ......................................................... ............................... ........................................... ...................................
94/95       9/96         96/97       V7/V3       9s/          total          94/n         M9/96      96/97        VI/96       91/99        total
1. IEvsI"EUJ Cosls
....................
A. tend Acquisitlen                      16100.2         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0    16100.2          1850.6          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0      1I50.6
B. cit 1wors
1. wMb5                              4919.5    33509.5       21353.0      3199.5       3387.9   110645.5          5654.?       1851.6      2454.4       367.6        389.4    1271,  o;
2. guildings                        165335.3    997110.       35751.9        262.5         0.e   30060.S           19004.1    11346.1       4109.4         30.2         0.0    14489.
...................................................................            ............................................................................................. .................................
Sub-lothl                              214530.8   132220.2    57104.9          3462.2       330'.9   410706.0         24658.7    15197.7        6563.8       391.0        389.4    4207.6
C. fqulpasntuachblnery
1. irrigation fqulipnt                9407.9    10244.1        9436.?      5088.3       3725.4    3903.2           1061.4       1t77.6      1084.7       584.9        428.2      4356.7
2. Agrlculture Equipwnt               2533.9       1623.?      1494.4       1120.        ,70.1      7`546.9          291.7       186.6        M71.6       120.8        88.5       867.S
3. tlvtesoch Prod. fIqulmnt           6913.5    15518.2        1720.2       1220.1      1715.5    27148.4            79.8       1783.7       191.6        141.2       197.2      3120.5
4. Llivstock  Processing 1q.         101`0.4    52117.1           0.6          0.0         0.0    62035.5           1232.0      5990.5          0.0         0.0         0.0      7222.5
) .Agre-Proeeeslng Equip.            70I55.6   217996.1    96734.7             0.0         0.0   304886.3          8063.9    25057.0    11113.9             0.0         0.0    44239.8
6. Aqeculture ftquint                   0.0          0.6         0.6          0.0         0.0         0.0             0.6         0.0          0.3         0.0         0.0          0.0
7. offIce fulpmnt                     5532.7       1746.3         0.0          0.0         0.0      7`279.0         635.9        20.7I         0.0          0.0         0.0       336.7
Suh-loisl                               105311.0   299246.3   109391.9         743'.1      6211.0   527599.3          12104.?    34396.1       IS24.0        854.8        713.9    6043. 6
0. Vehlcles
I. truces                            S1511.0    19193.3         541.1        556.5         0.6    31804.0           1323.1      2206.1        62.2         64.2         0.0      3655.6
2. trecteres                           062.0       3242.4      8116.3      8376.1       8633.2    41432.0            926.7       947.4       932.9        963.0       992.3      4762.3
3. Iuplewntls                         3953.1      4728.7       4162.6      4356.8       4545.4    2174'.0            454.4       543.5       478.5        500 .       522.5      2499.7
Sb letetl                               l2326.5    32164.4    12820.0    13293.4    13179.6    94983.0                 2704.2       3697.1      14?3.6       1528.0      1514.8    10917.6
E. Naterlasi
1.  lapotad Nterlals                  5553.3    13790.6    14200.9    1833.9    18042.9    67710.1                   638.4      1586.0      1641.5       1343.6      20o3.9      7782.8
2. tocel Netonlels                   03167.3    77327.3    23148.4          2409.3      282.5   198304.7            9559.5     1888.2       3235.4        276.9       319.3    222n9.9                        '
........ .................................... ................................................................  ...................................................................
Stb-jItal                               88721.2    911215.9    42429.2    18443.2    20825.4   2615s44.8              10197.3    1044.2         4876.9      2119.9       2393.?    30062.6
Lebow
I. Unskileld l6er                    11850.1       75SS4.4    13094.9      7"9.6    10197.3    67243.1              1362.2      20I7.1       2171.6       915.9      1262.0       7v29.7
2. Nsnagama t                         1753.1       3051.3      I110.4         16.9          .r      au614.9          202.1       3S0.3        203.5         1.9          2.0       760.3
...................................................................            ...............................................................................................................................
lub-htotl                                13608.9    20606.3    20665.3         795.s    IO997.0    7363.0              156.2        2368.3      2373.3       91'.9       1264.0      v490.0
*. training
1. Oversnes trninIg                   334.2         r09.2         0.6          0.0         6.6      4493.4           435.0        81.5          0.e         0.0          0.0       s16.s
2. Domestle Training                 1059.l    se882.2         2865.3       1692.4      1669.5    32706.5           1218.1      1825.5        329.3       I94.5        191.9      3739.4
3. leseatch                            502.4       1100.5       191.1        120.9        42.3      1951.2            57.?       126.5         22.0        13.9          4.9       225.0                5
Stb lotsl                                1483.7    17691.9         3056.4      1313.2       1711.8    39157.0           1710.3      2033.e5      35;.3        28 4        196.8       500.8 e              1r
m x
N. lecInlcel Aselstut
I. lnterntlgst Cowltant                  6.6        648.3         0.6          U.S         0.0       641.6             0.3        74.5          0.6         0.0          0.0        743.5               t
2. Local Consu(tant                       0.0         6.6          0.0         0.6         0.0          0.0            0.6          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0 o       oot
LA-totat                                     0.0       648.0         0.0         0.0          0.0       648.0             0.0        7.s          0.0          0.0         0.0         74.5
J. MwkIng Capital                       26354.0    28954.1   114394.2    37863.5    40422.5   2478.4                   3029.2       3328.1    13148.8       4352.1       4646.3    28504.4
J. Others
I. eSal$"                            13176.3       926.3       5112.5       50.?        585.1    25390.9           2009.2       106.5        57           6.9         67.3       2918.5
2. Suervlalon                         4359.2    656.4          6390.3      2236.5       2478.4    3101.3             s01.1       741.0         3.6        2S7.l        284.9      9318.
3. Freight S Insiuwme                 1496.9    30S20.5           6.0          0.e         0.0    32017.4            172.1      3501.1          0.0         0.0          0.0      3680.2
4. Nsctell                           21892.3       7265.3      4343.0       1797.3      2210.0    38008.2           2516.4         35.1       556.7       206.6        254.0      4368.8
S -lA tol                               45921.2   104318.4    16346.3          4624.5      5273.4   176487.9           5278.8      11990.6      1878.9        531.6       606.1    20286.0
...   ...;............. ........a................ ....... -s2-sw--w--tw.te--.-..........    ..................................................... **-*... -.............
Total  5OJSCI COSTS                    548961.4   72691.5   376210.4    94922.6   102007.7  11477.7                   63099.0    8350.4    43242.6    10910.7    11725.0   212537.7
1/11/1994  14t14



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHANGCHUN-JILIN PROVINCE
Project Cost Suimwry
TuanOOD                           USSOO0                         X Total
-----   -------------~~----~ ---    ---------------------- -----   X Foreign      Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange     Costs
A   Irrigation and Drainage          44432.8   18910.1   63342.9        5596.6   1684.2   7280.8          29.9        9.2
B . SoilWater Conservation          23334.5   11321.9   34656.4        2891.6   1091.9   3983.5          32.7        5.0
C . Field Crop Development           14662.0   32346.9   47008.9        1980.4   3422.9   5403.3          68.8        6.8
D . Livestock Devetopment            96174.5   44706.6  140881.1       12206.7   3986.5  16193.2           31.7      20.5
E   Livestock Processing             67104.4   77839.6  144944.0        8572.2   8088.0  16660.2          53.7       21.1
F   Agro-procesisng                  88782.1  162649.8  251431.9       11631.8  17268.4  28900.2          64.7       36.6
G . Project Management                1611.7    3943.6    5555.3         227.5    411.1    638.5          71.0        0.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                 336102.0  351718.5  687820.5       43106.8  35953.0  79059.8          45.5      100.0
Physical Contingencies             12364.9   29514.6   41879.5        1421.3   3392.5   4813.7          70.5        6.1
Price Contingencies                89643.3   23275.8  112919.1        5829.4   7149.8  12979.2          55.1       16.4
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 438110.2  404508.9  842619.1       50357.5  46495.3  96852.8          48.0      122.5
:====lt rs==.=en=:======:t:                          snuwr==r===-=s=:2= s======:==
1/7/1994  15:07
* X
Zun



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JILIN PROVINCE
Project Cost Summary
TuanOOO                             usSooo                            I Total
------------------------------    ------------------------------    X Foreign      Base
Local    Foreign      Total         Local   Foreign     Total      Exchange      Costs
A   Irrigation and Drairnge          12925.2    10660.4    23585.6        1735.3    975.7    2711.0            45.2        2.9
1   Field Crop Development            9999.7    59082.4   69082.1         1423.1   6517.4   7940.5            85.5         8.5
C   Orchard Development              28083.3    17009.2   45092.5         3487.7 - 1695.3   5183.1             37.7        5.6
D   Livestock Development           147162.3    80180.5  227342.8        18888.2   7243.1  26131.4             35.3       28.0
E   LIvestock Processing             42426.4    36362.6   78789.0         5452.6   3603.6   9056.2             46.2        9.7
F   Agro-processing                 109747.5   243929.2  353676.7        14485.4  26167.1   40652.5           69.0        43.6
G   Project Management                3333.3    10535.0    13868.3         477.0    1117.1    1594.1           76.0        1.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                 353677.8   457759.4  811437.1        45949.4  47319.2   93268.6            50.7      100.0
Physical Contingencies             17925.9    40360.1    58286.0        2060.5   4639.1   6699.5             69.2        7.2
Price Contingencies                99754.7    36509.4   136264.1        6169.3   9493.3  15662.5             60.6       16.8
total PROJECTS COSTS                 471358.4   534628.9  1005987.3       54179.1  61451.6  115630.7            53.1      124.0
1/6/1994  18:12
I- W
O x



- 97 -
Annex 2
Table 5
CHINA
SOUGLIAO PLAIN AGRICJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement of Mochinery, Equipment and MateriaLs
Project Element                       ice          LCB         Other        LIB       NIF       Total
.............. ............................. ............... .................................,._..........  ............................. 
Lieoning Province                             (US S  000)
................. .................... 
Machirery/Equipment
...................
Vehicles/Boats                          5,300                        so                 650        6,000
Agric. Machinery & Equipment              905        1,792                                         2,697
Irrigation Equipment                      400      5962          9,257                           15,619
Agro-Processing Equipment              17,332        2,000          500                           19,832
Aquaculture Equipment                   1,361          800        1,000                            3,161
Livestock Processing Equip.               95          1000          100                            2,085
Livestock Equipment                                               1,132    135.7                   1,268
Office Equipment                                                     69       70                     769
..................................................................
20.983       11,554       12,058       836         0      45,432
Moterists
Construction Moterials                  9,800                                                      9,800
Agro-Chemicals                          7,800                                2000                  9,800
Agricultural ir4uts                                  8,537        3.530                           12,067
Livestock Moterisls                                               7,820    75.44                   7,895
Aquaculture Inputs                                   5,213        3,291                            8,504
SubtotaL                            17,600       13,750       14,641    2,075          0      48,067
TotaL Liaoning                        43,883       25,305       26,749    2,911        650       99,499
JiLin Province
..............
Machinery/Equipment
........ ............... ....
Vehicles                                2,100                     1,400                 200        3,700
Agric. Machinery A Equipment            6,512        1,617             0                           8,129
Irrigation Equipment                                 2,178        2,178                            4,356
Agro-Processing Equipment              30,825        8,000        5,415          0                44,240
Livestock Equipment                                               3,122                            3,122
Livestock Processing Equip.             1,616        1,500        3,227   U0.18                    7,223
Office Equipment                                                     385      452                    837
..................................................................
38,952       13,295       14,326    1,332          0       67,905
meteriats
Construction Moterisls                  8,070        1,700                                         9,770
Agro-chemicaLs                          6,469        1,000         1,108   605.37                   9,182
Livestock Inputs/Breeding stock                         500       8,300        508                 9,308
Agriculturel Inputs                                  4,000         7,500                           11,S00
...... .......... ___.........___._____..............................._.__........_____
SubtotaL                             14,539        7,200       16,906    1,113           0      39,760
._._..__..._.._.__.__._._..._..     ..............._.........._._._
Total Jilin Province                   55,591       20,495       32,634    2,446         200      111,366
Total Project                          99,475       45,800        59,383    5,357        050     210,864
#8 g         s    # _       #    _ _ - #            B



- 98 -
Annex 2
Table 6
SONGLIAO PLAUN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Disbursement                 Disbursement
IDA           ----------------------------------        Profile a/
Fiscal year/       Semestral Cumulative  Cumulative -----------------
Semester          ---- (uS$ Mill-ion) ---  I      Yr/Semester   I
1995 b/                                                   Year 1
First (Jul-Dec, 1994)          14         14      7      First             0
Second (Jan-June, 1995)        16         30      15     Second           30
1996                                                      Year 2
First (Jul-Dec, 1995)          19         49      24     First            38
Second (Jan-June, 1996)        23         72      35     Second           46
1997                                                      Year 3
First (Jul-Dec, 1996)          20         92      45     First            54
Second (Jan-June, 1997)        21        113      55    Second            66
1998                                                      Year 4
First (Jul-Dec, 1997)          20        133      65     First            70
Second (Jan-June, 1998)        21        154      75     Second           82
1999                                                      Year S
First (Jul-Dec, 1998)          14        168      82     First            86
Second (Jan-June, 1999)        10        178      87     Second           94
2000                                                      Year 6
First (Jul-Dec, 99)            11        189       92    First            96
Second (Jan-June, 2000)         a        197       96    Second           98
2001                                                       Year 7
First (Jul-Dec, 2000)           8        205      100     First          100
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------
a/ Disbursement profile for China - Agriculture Sector. The World Bank
Operations Policy Department, July 27, 1993.
b/ Included retroactive financing of US$ 14 million, to cover expenditure
incurred between July 15, 1993 and not more than one year before the
signing of the Credit Agreement.
Completion date: December 31, 2000
Closing date: December 31, 2001



- 99 _
Annex 3
Table 1.1
CHN
SONGLLkO PLAIN AGRICUrLTMEAL DEVELOPNT PROJECT
CROPPED AREAS, YELDS AND PRODUCTION
Table 1: JiN -Flw CtoPu
Crop                     Prelet               Fut= without mroiee          Futr wih oro;ic
AreYaeld   Prod.    Ara    YiAd              Prlod.    A       Yrid      Prod.
('00 ha)   (i/h)  (00)   ('00 ha)  (i1h)   ('0 )   ('O0O ha)  (t/ha)   ('00 t)
Corn            26.8      4.2    114.5    26A        4.6     [Z.9       21.5    5.1       109.9
Paddy            4.3      5.4      26.2     4.8      5.7       27.2      3.3    6.5        57.2
Whea             0.7      2.0       1.4     0.7      2.1        1.5      2.0    4.0         5.0
Soybean          1.6      1.3       2.1      1.6     1.5        2.4      1.6    1.6         2.6
Cabbge-   -                                          -          -        2.0   70.0       140.0
Note: Populaion - 152,700; household- 41,000.
Me project ars inchlde Songpo - 4,5000, Soangqi - 3,590 (irted rioc), Fuyu - 2,000 ha (irigted wbht),
Huajia - 10.200 ha, Wazhonggw - 13.640 ha (dnhiage imprvwnml).



- 100 -
Annex 3
Table 1. 2
CHINA
SONGLL&O PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPE:NT PROJECT
Table 2: Jrn.Z - AppEx-PEAR
Year                   Sovbean                       ADgle-Pear
Area   Yield     Production    Area    Yied    Production
(ha)   (t1ha)      (ton)      (ha)    (t'ha)      (ton)
1           7,000    1.50      10,500      7,000         -          -
2            7,000    1.50     10,500      7,000         -          -
3            7,000    1.50     10,500      7,000         -          -
4            7.000    1.50     10.500      7.000         -          -
5            7,000    1.20      8,400      7,000       1.5      10,500
6            7,000    0.72      5,040      7,000       3.0     21,000
7                -       -          -      7,000       6.0     42,000
8               -        -          -      7,000       9.0     63,000
9                -       -          -      7,000      12.0     84,000
10              -        -          -      7,000      13.5     94,500
11              -        -          -      7,000      13.5     94,500
12              -        -          -      7,000      13.5     94,500
13-20           -        -          -      7,000      13.5     94,500
Note: Populaion - 443,050; Household - 8,000
Lishu County - 3,334 ha; Gongzhulng - 1,666 ha; and Shuangyang County - 2,000
ha. At present, project area is wasteland, mostly low slope hills. Immature apple.
pear interCropped with soybean for first six years.



-101 -                        Annex 3
Table 1.3
CHINA
,SONGLL4.O PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3: LIONING - FIL Cxons
CMp            _        PMent              Fut  without eroict         Fute Wih vict
Am      Yied   Pro.    Am        Yaw       Prod.    Am      Yiwld    Prod.
C000 a)   (t) (M00)  ('000 ba)  (hA)  C000  e C0  ha)  (/h)   ('00t)
Comn (rainfid)   213     5.0    106.7    213      5.2     110.9      14.2    5.2      739
Rio, (iixu)    *         *            -           -          -        6.2    6.3      42.2
Whe  (=uriatz-d)  -                                                  21.3    4.0      35.3
Soyben (miWaed)                    -                                  7.1    1.1      S2i
Natc Number of houacholds: Rime - 47,337; Wheat - 213,016.



-102-                       Annex 3
Table 1.4
CEINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIor4NG - ORcHARD DELOPMENT
Future without moject /a       Future with proiect
Area   Yield    Production   Area    Yield   Production
(ha)  (t/ha)      4on)      (ha)   (t/ha)      (ton)
New planting       -       -           -     3,000     22.5      67.500
New planting
(high density)    -       -           -       133    32.5       4,322
Top grafting    7,017    15.0     140,340    7,017     20.0    140,340
Improvement     1,240    7.5       9,300     1,240     10.5      13,020
Subtotal    L2S               149.640   .11390              225,182
New planting        -      -           -       333       18       5,994
Improvement     1,000    7.5       7,500      1,000      15      15,000
Subtotal     1 0700                       13                 20994
AR ricots
New planting for
fresh fruit       -       -           -       200       15       3,000
Subtotal        -       -           -                  -       3 0
Total Fits     2               157.140    12.923             249.176
Apnrcot Kernecls
New Planting        -       -           -     2,650     0.4       1,060
Total Hcctarcs                            15.S73
Note: Number of households - 135,114.
La Present situation same as future without project.



- 103 -                  Annex 3
Table 1.5
CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IAONING - SCHEDULE OF ORCHARD DEvEOPMEr
(ha)
Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5    Tota
A le New Planting
Xingcheng                     633      633        -       -        -   1,266
Suizhong                      400      300            -            -     700
Dataishan                      133      67      67        -        -     267
Haicheng                      350      150        -       -        -     500
Nanshan                       -267       -        -       -        -     267
Jinxian                        133       -        -       -        -     133
Subtotal                 l21i 9   1 SO
r        -ngcheng             334      833     833      500        -   2,500
Suizhong                     1,283     800        -       -        -   2,083
Dataishan                       50       -        -       -        -      50
Haicheng                     1,000     667        -       -        -   1,667
Nanshan                         33       -        -       -        -      33
Chaoyang                       684       -        -       -        -     684
Subtotal                 Lam    2m0         £LU                     L.- 7
Apple Improvement
Nanshan                      1,240       -        -       -        -   1,240
TotAl                    6.S40 A            900                       2 -  11l390
Pear New Plantnag
Beizhen                        333        -       -       -        -     333
Pear Im2rovemellt
Beizhen                      1,000        -       -       -        -   1,000
Total Pear                13                                        13
New Yinbai Agricot
Yixian                         200        -       -        -       -     200
Total Y.B. AD!icot         2m                                         2Q
New Dabian Apricot
Beipiao                        550     550      550        -       -   1,650
Lingyang                       500     500        -        -       -   1,000
Total D.B. Anricot        LMQQ L_   2.Q
GRAND TOTAL              2 123   4  50    1



CHINA
SONGLIAo PLAIN AGRICLLTtAtAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Horticulture Component.
Sumary of Crop Iuiget
~~~~~~~,....... ........ ............... ......... .................. ..... ........ ... ... .. ........ .................. . ..........
Future
----------. .  Percentage
Present          Without Project            With Project
....................    ....................    ......................       increased
Net Return            Net Return              Net Return
Per He   Per day    Per No        Per day    Per No        Per day      Per No  Per day
~~~............ ........................ .................... ... ... ..... ...... ... .... ..........................
1. Wheat Irrigation Development Area               892.3        9.4         822.4        8.5     4,164.0          25.0       5092      2942
2. Rainfed Ptdyf  to Irrigated Pm&t              1,724.0         9.7     1l948.0         9.8      3,912.0         19.6       201Z      2002
3. Ralnfed Corn to Irrigated Pad*                  963.0        9.?         820.0        7.5     3,912.0          19.6       4772      261X
3. Waterlogged area (Corn)                         472.8         5.3        532.0        5.3      1,76S.0         16.0       3322      3021
4. waterlomged area (Soybean)                   1t203.5        19.1      1,340.0        19.1     3, S9  0         4r.9       2682      2512
S. Flex in Olan An                                   0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0      1,073.7         21.5
6. Whest Intercropped with Corn                  1,430.5       10.6      1,589.0        11.8     4,643.0          22.1       2922      1871
r. soybean In Wheat stubble                      1,430.5       10.6      1,589.0        11.8     4,583.6          17.0       2882      1442
B. From Corn to Apple new Planting                 778.5        7.4        905.0         8.6    35,235.0         173.6      38932    20192
9. Top Grafting of Exilatng Orchards            10,066.0       50.4    12,086.0         60.4    18,986.0          94.9       1572      1572
10. Improvement of Exfiitng Apple Orchards  2,967.0            14.8      3,717.0        18.6     7,160.0          35.8       1932      1922
11. Frm Corn to Pear Orchards                      719.0        6.8        845.0         8.0    12,683.0          63.4      15012      7932
12. Improveewnt of Exieting Peor Orchard.          943.5        4.7      1,356.0         6.8     3,663.0          18.3       270x      26n 
13. Apricot New Plantine (fruit)                     0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0    23,973.0         119.9
14. plcot New Planting (Kernel)                      0.0        0.0           0.0        0.0     8,955.0          44.8
............................................................................................................. .................
note: Detailed analyses can be foun.d In the Project Files.
(SX



CHINA
SOWGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JILIN - field Crop Development
Rainfed Paddy and corn Into Irrlgted Paddy - tongq
Crop 0udbet (per he)
Present                          Future Without            future wlth Prolect
Paddt             Corn           Paddt             Corn             Paddy
.............-     -- ---  --    ----------------------------  . ......... .....................................
tIMt    Quin.  Value   Oun.  Value   oumn.  Value   Oun.   Value   oumn.    Value
(Yuan)          (Yuan)           (Yuan)          (Yuan)             (Yuan)
,................................................ ....... .............. ...... ........... .......... ...............................
A. Groes Value of Pro*xction
food Grain              Kg         4455  3,385.8  4,455  1.871.1 4f950  3,762.0  4.950   2079.0  r7TM          5,652.0
*y-Product              ,             .         .      .
Gross Return            Yuan             3,36S.8          16,71.1         3,762.0           2079.0             5,852.0
B. Cost of Farm ItWut,
Seed                    kg           45     99.0      36     95."    so    110.0       40    104.0    s0         110.0
fertili 2er
Aemmniuo licarbonrte kg           360    111.6       -        -    400    124.0       -        -    roo        217.0
SAP                   tg          135     96.2    90    130.5    150    213.0    100    145.0    150           218.0
Ures                  kg           45     49.5      45     49.5     S0     55.0      S0     55.0    S0          55.0
Amonium Nitrate       kg            -              225    157.5      -         -    250    175.0                   -
Aumonilu  tulphate    kg            *                                                 .
Potassium             kg           45     49.5      45     49.5    50      55.0      so     55.0      Ts        83.0 
rn S4                 kg            9      6.3       6      4.5     10      7.0       7      5.0      10         7.0                           I
Potting soil          kg           11     25.2       -        -     13     23.0       *        -      13        28.0
r arue                kg           26    157.5      Is    126.0     2s    175.0      20    140.0    25         175.0
Agrochemlcal            Kg                   " 96.3                    -    107.0             50.0              '107.0
brought Animl           An./day       S      01.0     14    135.0      9      90.0     1s    150.0      10        90.0
Wachinery               Yuan                189.0           162.0      0    210.0       0    180.0       0       210.0
Water/Elect. Charles   Yuan                290.0                 -2.                    - 20-            -       m.0
Others                  Yuan                310.5             0.0            345.0           200.0               345.0
tota                                      1,6t1.            908.1          1,114.0          1259.0             1,940.0
C. net  eturn           Yuan              1,724.2           963.0          1,948.0           820.0             3,912.0                        cr
Famly Labor             Pereonday   17T               99             196              110              200             
Return to Fmily Labor Yuan                   9.7              9.7              9.8             r.5                19.6
9/15/93



CHINA
SONGtIAo PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPENT PIROJECT
JILIN - Fild Crop Developm nt
Rainfed Uheat and Cabbage In Uheat Irrigation sevnlopinet Area
Crop Budget (per he)
.................................................... ............................................................................................................. ...............................................
future with Prolect
Present                     future without Project   ---.----------------                    ------------
Irrigated Wheat                           Ctbbage                 total
............................................................................................................
Unit   Quantitr    unit             Value   Ouantity    Unit            Value  Suantity    Unit            Value   Quantity    tinit           value
Price    (Yuan)                     Price    (Yuan)                    Price    (Yuan)                     Price    (Yuan)
.................................................. ................................................................................................................................................................. ...... ......
A. Oross VYlue of Production
Yield                          Ton                  2         900    1800.0           2.5         900       2Z50            5        140    3700.0            65          60    3900.0
IyProdmet                      ton                1.5          34       51.6          1.6         314       54.4            5         20      100.6             0           0        0.0
Gross Return                   Yuen                                   1851.0                              2304.4                             3800.0                              3900.0    7700.0
8. Coat of Form IrVuto
Seed                           kg                100            2      200.0          100           2      200.6         200            2     400.0             1         60        60.0      460.0
Fertitlier                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
Ure                          Ig 150                      0.53         79.5         200        1.04      208.6          300       1.04       312.0          200           1      200.0       512.0
DAP                         kg                 140        1.43      200.2          150        1.46      219.6          200       1.46       292.0          150       1.46       219.0       511.0
Potaselum sulphate    ig                        10         0.9         9.0          50         1.5        75.6          50       1.56        78.0            0           0         0.0       78.0 0
HNr~e                       ton                   7         20       140.0          20          20      400.6           25          20      500.0           1S          20      300.0       900.0                 o
Agrochemical                   Yuan                                    100.0                                40.0           25          15      375.0           20          15      300.0       675.0
Brought Animal                 An.iday             10          13      130.0           1S          20      300.0           15          20      300.0            2          20       40.0       340.0
Nschinery                      1u n                                    100.6                                40.0            1          40       40.0                               100.0       140.0
0.0
Total                                                                  958.7                              1482.6                             229Y.0                              1219.0    3516.0
C. Net Return                  Yuan                                    892.3                               822.4                             1503.0                              2681.0    4114.0
famlly Labor                   Peronday            9                                   97
Return  te Ftmily Leobo   Yuan                                            9.4                                 8.5         110                   13.7         225                    11.9        25 o
.....................................................................................................................................................
9/1S/9I                                                                                                                                                                                                    n    Li



CHINA
SONGLIAo PLAIN AGRIOULIUNAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lisoning   Agrlculture Ctpporwnt
Crop Budget - Corn. Pedct and Wheat Intereropped Corm/Soybe n
. ............................................................. ............................................................................................................................... ............................... ....................
Future ulth Prolect
...................... ........................................... ;........................................
Present       Future without                         Wheat Intercropped with Corn                         Wheat sttbble toybeen
Corn            Corn                Peddy            Uhet               Corn                        Wheat            Soybean
.............................. .......... .............................. sib-lo..  ..t............. sth-Total
Outn.  Vslue    Ouwn.   Value   ouan.   Value    Otun.   Value   Ouan.   Velue    Value   Oun.  Value   Quan.  Value    Value
.............................................................................................................................................................
A. Oross income
............
Prouict                 ton     4.T 2*409.0        5.3 2,6o7.5    6.8  4,860.0          4.5 3,600.0    6.0  3,060.0  6o660.0    5.3 4,200.0    1.9 3,000.0  7T200.0
*y-pro&ckt              ton     6.5   173.7         7.4   198.5    7.4    267.3         5.4   102.6    3.4    226.0    329.4    6.3   119.7    1.9   103.1    222.8
"th-total                            2.588.5            2,86.0            5,127.3           3*702.6           3.286.8  A.989.4           4.319.T         31103.1  7,422.8
3. irqat'
Seed (kg)                  kg    40.5   137.7        45.0   153.0   90.6    180.6    210.0   336.0   31.5    107.1    443.1  300.0   480.0   84.0   193.0    6l.3.O
Manure                     ton   13.5   135.0        15.0   150.0   15.0    150.O         14.W   147.0   10.5    105.6    252.0   21.0   210.0    7.5    75.0    285.0
Fertliter
-Uree                      kg   202.5   243.0    225.0   270.0  300.0    360.0    173.3   207.9  157.5    189.0    396.9  247.5   297.0   90.0   108.0    405.0
*Dt                        tkg   148.5   223.2    165.0   248.0  195.0    293.0    136.5   204.8  11S.5    173.3    378.1  15.0   293.0  `13S.0   202.0    49S.0
-Potamelue Sulphate        kg    40.5    38.7       45.0    43.0   49.5        47.0       34.6    32.9   31.5       29.9      62.3   49.5    47.0   45.0    43.0          90.0
AgrocheelcalC              kg      6.1      5.4      15.0      6.0    3.0    120.0         1.1    42.0    0.1        4.0      46.0    1.5    60.0    0.9    36.0          96.0
Plastic Film                                                          22.5      79.0
Materials                 pole                                       600.0      1S.6
Dre.t Animal              day   1.9   245.T         21.0   273.0   12.0    156.0          4.2    54.6    4.T    191.1    24S.7    6.0    78.0    9.0   117.0    195.0
Machinery                 aet      0.3    64.8        0.9    fl.0    2.4    192.0          0.8    64.0    0.6       50.4    114.4    1.2    96.0    0.9    n.o    1I8.o
Powerlwater Chars"  l uan                                                     502.5              322.5    0.6         0.0    322.5    0.0   322.5                6.O    322.5
Tax                       Tuan            64.5        0.0    n.o               145.5              34.5              50.4      84.9             34.7             T5.0    109.7
total Costs                         1,151.0            1,28T.0           2.240.0            1.446.2             900.2  2,346.4           1.918.2           921.0  2,839.2
met volu of Productlon                 1,430.5             1.589.0          2 887.3            2,256.4           2,386.6  4,643.0                                      4,513.6
Fumily labor                       135                135              180                  r5              135                 210      75              135               2ro
ltunper Paronday                       10..               11.8              16.022                                                                                     I.
Return pe   erredr"^"J'                                                                                                        22.1                                        17.0      l
m x
.................................................. ................................-.- --------..........  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, .................... X
9%15%93
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



- 108 -
Annex 3
Table 2.4
L_wbw - rb         -_
cw   _1  c    1
gm ptuj1gw */  tp  utftt Wh   j           /   Mm pt uei   .      w        t.  IO/ AP kW P....  *    t Ptwew  t
3dt  Plm    t_   _3m           -_  W         _____    "we    I     Vl    1                 O       _lm  _ m           tw
A. P1omW                        3.Am"                           1on"m                         pup                   -      .    
-Twid              bei,755.                   10,11111.2      415J            ,13.
4y-w SmA Vatin   .W                                                     e.              ..9
Te1 at                                              n in um.        6153.8         i.i.02,3
3.                                                                                                                                           ,_ 
11sub         km      LI    27.5 9.3 "A                                      .5    "13.
up"          ~~kW     1.2   UO.9   30.a  .. 1.135     .0 11.31 .96  13.8   3.08  2310             53.
z ~ ~ ~ k             1.5  5.0 o     3.    27s.   _2.    413.8  33.    -38 
--               'in    MA      12.8   5.       ".   gm.       U.8   311.1    3i   30                S"
i w -             91mg                                 1.111120        11 31. n
&w~mte             b      3.       1.J   13.3    MA   tt1.11   7J   35J          1.8   13.9            T3.
Karim4                             5.4  11301                                   5.8  4a".               0.
bat 6min                   1.MS.8          7,914.8        2.33.0         1,13M.8         2,13.0
0"_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tr.                           S.MsJ          I'M
-ot v             13                     11 J         lvisi j _ J.8                    MA *63.3
'ml1 tLa                         MA                .e           33.            11.8           3MM8
'M     unity Le                           74            "A3               .8            6.8 1.7
tiOld        km           5.33.0~k       30,03.8         73.90A         $,omoi          a,0.
1  t,J r,n J~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                      3.8t .Z b
TotaIlm" latin   rum150.                             3,1.        ,.0          2      ,1.8           4,180.8
IF"t* cm"
weim              be _     A    37J 4.                                         2.      W.3
Wom                kg      1.2   50.    me.  1.tn.  I.2.1   13    1.J    M"    20.0 aJ
-w,                33    3.0    12.3   IAe        "A.   33.      5.8   3111.0    3.8   au".            M".
btUw ISISW        I"=                                  5.53.            113.0                          UFA8
vromomisis    t      "A.      1.8   13.   3S"  1,us.         7.5  275J      1.8    "A.            13.8
lml.q                            5.J   453.9                                   5,J   A53J               9.9
'mows                _3.                                            1.31.                              .
33.8  2.33.8                          33~~~~~I  ".9   13.9
lot win          133                    33.9          r.3AJ          S77.0            81M.8          1734.0
0tv 9w S 317JL                                   9 n.6   1,4."                          3.9 110.1  -
- ie   l   is   i9 em  Ptine               ~ t. 1.otlau  De                      mwJ   a  a *   9we    @    mJ  me
'--i  #ia  ret    AN.e Mm Jtno               Aps To Nutm   0*Po                             w  o".i    Al"                   toro
old             kV            5.32,30                       3,1.            ,3.80".301 3.                                      1.
p  t loin      TAm                  453.8          24.338          35301,3005.                                      33.
oPut wai         m                      0.                                             0.0             0.0             0.0       t       .3
stat Yati.                ~~~~~~~~       ~~45,3.0 M .0 31,111,1100.0       S..0                           3 1.861 3.3.0   123.8"
Iran                                                                  l aiS
kg
6'kV                     1.2 "tn's '-no.    I0  I-=-.    M.   440.             1     47.0   goJ   psi    5a.          61.    111j   43.8
km  1.5  2710   mu2.   275.    miL   315.   142.   215.8    MA42.0              375.14.  15.8   413.0   no0.    215.
wu          ti~~~~~~n 3.8    40.8   M3.    41.    MA.   30.3   400.8    NJ   643.    30.3   4131          2.8a   4013.9    14.    Xf.3
w 0.0113   ~~~TiM                tIu.o           1,33.           351.3           4130.0          230.3            413.0
Ino   kV    13.0    .8  1.33.0    3.I 1.33.8    7.5  271.    3.8  1.33.            Ui.  lo.3       50    11.3   111.0  513.
wilnI Owslm                  33.0~~~~~~~~~M  1111.8         33.0            311.31         33.              3111.0          33.0
4,750.         6.330A          2,813.8        1.310.8         1,1.3n           2.3.mi          1,23j.
real baa                   ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~9,74.5  11,916.  5343.8A         5,87.           4,3.8           &6.S.            S.M2.0
win   tim                 3~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~.M3.$  193.IU  714C.0        3,4028           2,445.8         5,97.8           #.MJ.
I tyr t-.39. _.8                                                                             3. mu.N  oa.0
oS tonIl4y Lmo                       112.6           11.9           23.8            41.4            185119.9                         404.8
31   -u >-  laS ta 330901i
.~ g,stl.  m .tlm   in    t pli  etrl         _t 1u ._  m                                                      _-t
tmppwmmisti  _w vd.                 .. ....                                        -
Canwt mm  Wn I am pwr pn,a                                                                                 n.a .
Pbma3   of mam tamuL



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture and Wortleulture Caiopnents
Summary of Farm Models
. ..............................................................................................................................
Future
----------- ------ --------- ----------------     Incremental
Present          Ulthout Project          Ulth Project
.................... ~ ...........      ................ -----------ncome
Net Return           Net Return             Net Return                 (Yuan)
Per Capits Per day  Per Capita   Per day  Per Capita    Per day   Per Capita Per day
1. Songql Irrligted PFe"d  Area                  260.0        4.6        311.0        5.5       m.0           13.6      68.00    1.1
2. Sangpo Irrigated PFe"  Area                   460.0        7.4        553.0        3.7        99. 0        13.0      346.0       4.3
3. Apple-Pear Area                             1669.0        22.6      1,669.0       22.6     6 504.0         72.5    4835.0       49.9
4. Fuyu - Irrigated Wheat Area                   455.0       17.0        455.0       17.3       931.0         36.5      476.0      13.?
5. Other Irrigated Area                          300.0       11.7        300.0       11.7       356.0         14.0       56.0       2.3
6. Nong An Waterlogged Area                      170.0        3.0        216.5        3.8       643.3          10.3     431.8       7.0
T. Xiaoshi Nicro Watershed Area                  594.2       19.2        64S.2       20.3     3,721.1         66.0    3075.9       45.2
S. Reclaimed Wasteland for Padd?                 284.3       10.1        340.5       12.1       475.4         30.1      134.9      13.0
9. New Orchards                                  311.3        5.4        739.9       12.1     1,097.0          17.3     357.1       5 .
10. Orchard ioproeem nt                          311.3        5.4        311.3       5.4        746.8         12.2      435.0       6.3
Notes Detelled *ulyses can be fourd In the Project Files.          I
F3 



CHINA
SONGLlAO PLAIN AGRICtULTtAL DEVEtOP"ENI PROJECt
JILIN - Fleld Crop Development
lainfed Peddy and Corn Into Irrlgated Peddy - Songql
Fars Model
................................. ................................................................... ..............................
Present            Future without           Future with the Project
.......................   .................................... ..................... ....................................
Peddy    corn   Total   Ptddy  corn  Total        Paddy   Corn   Total
..............................................................................................
Area (ha)                  0.30     630O   1.00   0.30   0.70       1.00   1.00      0.00      1.00
Food Craln                 1016     1310   2326   1129   1455       2584   5852         0      5852
Anlml Rellng                            -    25        -      -      30S                 -      305
Gret Return                                 2621                    2889                       61ST
Operstlng Costs
leeds                        33       73    106      33      73      106    1I1         0       116
fertiliter
A           ni   llcearbonatt  37    0      37     37       0       37    21T         0       217
DAP                        55       95     150     65    102       167    218         0       210
Urea                       17       39      56     1?      39       56      55        0        55
Ammonium Nitrate            -      120    120       0    123       123       0        0         0
Aenhiue sulphate                      -      0                       0       -        a         a
Potaslum Suulphate         1?       39      56     IT      39       56      63        0        83
iZne b ulphete              2        5       7      2       5        7       7        0         7                                                 0
Petting soll                I        0       0      *       *        a      28        0        25
fhmure                     Se53           151     53      9       1S1    1S          0       1rs
Agretkoical                  32        0      32     32      35       67    107         0       10T
Drought Animl_               27       105    132     27    105       132      90        0        90
Yechin ry                    63      126    189      63    126       189    210         0       210
VaterlElbt. Chaeres          ST         0     B7     of       -       6r    290         0       290
Other                       104      140    244    104    140        244    345         0       345
feed                                         130      0       0      140    140         0       140
tax                          27       49      76     2r      49       76      90        0        90
total                      562       889   1S81    572    34        1646                       2165
C. Not Return                               1040                    1243                       3992
ftlly labor                228                      226                      294
Return to faumly Lobor                       4.6                     5.5                       13.6
Per Capita Ineom                             260                     311                        990
..............................................................................................ww
Notet  Average household has 4 persons with 2-3 laborers.
Average cultivated lend In Songql Is 1.0 he (1S MU).



CNINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRCtILTIMAL DEVEOPMENT PROJECT
JILIN - orchard Development
Apple pear Are.
Form Model
.........................................................................................................................
Present                      Future without the Project    Future wlth the Project
,.................. &.........................................................
Corn       Pig   Orchard  totel  Corn        Pig  orcherd  Total    Corn         Pil   orchard    Total
................................................. ........................................................................................... .. ..................................
Area (hb)                  1.00          1     1.30            1.00       1     1.30              1.00         0     1.50
Crop Inmaem               2,700          0   12,460 15,180  2,0oo        0   12.480 15,180        2700         0   32,400   35,100
Br Prodckct Income                    576         0      7s6           576         0      76         -         0         0      576
Groes Return                                         15,756                           15.756                                 35,676
Operating Coats
Seeds                       100         0         3    100    100        0         0    100        100         a         0      100
Fertililer                  425         o    1,443  1,868    425         0    1,443  1.861         425         0    1,500    1,925
Nsnure                      ZOO         0       260    460    200         0      260    460        200         0       280      400
Agrochemicul                 92         0       312    404       92      0       312    404         92         0      320       412
Iichineryl Anl _l           260         o         o    260    260        0         0    260        260         0         0      260
WateriElect. Chargs          42         O         U      42      42      0         0      42        42         0       696      740
Other                         0          0        0       0       0      0         0       0         O0                  0         0
feed                                  350         0    350             3SO         0    350                    0         0         0
Piglet                                100         0    100             100         0    100                    0         0         0
tax                         120         o    1,246  1,368    120         0    1,248  1.368         120         0    3,240    3.360
Labor                                   0    2,806  2,806                0    2,808  2,806                     0    2,061    2,061
Other                                   20    1,300  1,320               20    1,300  1.320                    o       324       324
Total                     1,239       470    7,371  9,080  1,239    470    7,371  9,060    1,239               0     ,423    9,662
C. Net Return                                         6,676                            6,676                                 26,014
F  ilty Labor               130        1S       IO    29        130      Is 1    IS 2l5            130         S       229       359            0 
Return to fm-lty Labor                                 22.6                             Z2.S
Per Capita Income                                     1,669                             ,669                                   6,504             , x
Notes  Averege household hoe 4 person  with 3-4 laborers of uuhlch one Is a women.
Avereae cultivated land 1o on  ha for corn and 1.3 ha for fruit.
One fruit tree prodtees 10 kg frult, selling prlce Is T 1.6/ko.
Asmuing productlon at the ten yrer then the orchard Is In stable prodkiction period.



CNINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGCICULTlUAL DEVELOPhIIENT PROJECT
Llvestock Processing Copornent
Anual Pro6xtlon
..............................................................................................
County       Caeclty                         Meet       Offal    Sone       Other       Skin/Feather
..............................................................................................
Von/Year
Ll aning Slaughterhotues
.........................
Chantu       -Cattle 30,000 head/year          6.241    1.170    1.914         235        30.000 pleces
Chmngtu      -Rabbit 850.000 heed/year-   1.256            18S       131       542       850.000 piecee
Zhawu        -Ceese 400.000 head/year         2,365         U3         0       165                184 kg
Jilin Slaughterhouses
......................
talpirn      -Sheep 500.000 head/year         7.350    2.000    2.000    1.500           500.000 pieces
De Nul        -Cattle 50.000 head/year    10,000    2.400    1.800               0         50.000 piecer
Sh.m lleo   -Cattle 50.000 head/year    9*000    3.000    1.800    1.37S                 50.000 pleces 
aong An      -Geeee 1.1 oillon heed/yr   6. 500           230         0       4SO                500 kg
I                                                                     I                                 I
........................................ ........................................................................_
I-' m
m x



- 113 -
Annex 3
Table 5.1
CNINA
SOMCLIAO PLAIN ACAUJLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Processing Comonnt
Major Pr.d ct Ex-Factory Prices
... ...___.......  __....___....... . ........................             ........
Ex-factory Selling
Compont                                          P.    t                 Prices (Yuanton)
Jilin Provinsc
..............
Dehul Cattle Slaughterhouse         (a) -Beef ist  grade (eport)                     11,400
- Bf 2M  grade (local)                       7,500
- Offal                                      3,000
- Midas (each)                                  130
- Sonoo                                         zs
ShuanLiao Slaughterhouse                 BSe I grade                                  9,20C
- Bef 2W  grade (Loal)                       7500
- Offal                                      2,77
- Hides (each)                                  130
-Bones                                         250
Tat Ping Sheep Slaughterhouee       (a) - Mutton I st grade                           9,000
mutton 2 nd qrade                          4,000
* Offal                                      35o00
Skim  Ceach)                                  20
-Bones                                        560
ong An Gees SLaughterhoue          (Ca)   Carcass                                    4, 000
- Offal                           4.000 to 10,000
Lioaning Province                       -Feathers                                    30,000
Zhnguwu Gese Slaughterhouse             - Mt                                          3.500
- Foot, Wing, Gizzard                       10,000
-ffatl                              4;000 to 7o600
- Feathers                                      200
- Feather Coat                             145.000
-  oA                            50,000 to 2S0,000
Changtu Rabbit Slaughterhouse       (a) - Carcases                                   12,000
S mked rebit                                3,300
- Offatl                                     2,00
- Skim  (each)                                    2
Shuang Yang Door Products           CO) - Medicinre                       53,000 to 750,000
Note:
lo) Iti that wold be of export quality.



- 114 -
Annex 3
Table  5.2
AvZ1o-Idustrie ampoont
Major Prand t WantmZy«r Fries
;rt49 ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~     pudu                ftn       m
- Linba  Alm Mal iat.llary       (a) - Anhydous  -c ,                          3,000
- coiz au                                  3,100
- Ci emow                                    750
-  Try distIl2ars    0                       gm
-   maagywg *PapftM=             (a) - nluag papor                             Z0c0
- JiUtl !as my                   la) - L ati   (Tua/m2)                    14 to 140
-    An OGlatia plan:            la) -  alatia                      12.000 to 50,000
- Posphate                                1,600
- Dan  all o                               1,600
- qL.c An Flax mill             (a) - L1"  (Tan/M2)                         is to 23
- Plax Tars                              27,000
- Flax t                                  1,200
- Tueau Cars  st6azch Mll            - Nodifis starch                2,250 to 25,000
- gm An p*tor Mil                () - Patbar Dw  (Taa/kg)                         110
- fy lat_e  (Tuaa/)                            6
(a) - Dr   oants (Yuha a _)                      ISO
(     o) - 3m  treu ars (T eacb)                 00
(a) - Dma qilts (Tm  eab)                       250
Laon  Pmre
- XinaMao  Peanut  Pratain Plan  (a) - Feint prtalm  Isolates                  23,000
- Peaut aenstm                            11.000
- FernSt e.1                               6,000
- Liacyang Pc-tata  plant            - latese   myae                           "0,000
- xa±uan Davtma  Devr_ap             - Jule    entrate                         15,000
(a) - eatar balttld                            4,600
(a) - Ncatar Gaenn                             6,000
-  a.    g Apple nuim            (a) - JUlsr    m     ta   p t)                 6,700
- Ju_e  cncntrae (local)                   6,000
_ Dame                                     6,000
- 2±5mg irid inbroes             (a) - Dry IOmeAgu                     5,000 to 3,000
-apia  Purera  Pl-at                 -   rf   l                                 4,000
- SA  Dapam, pqpell              () - Plutag paper                              2,050
Laebig sames ail ULl                          Q; e   i                         12,000
_ Sem cakeZ                                  S00
(a)  Itm  that  sed be of *rpest quality.



- 115 -
Annex 3
Table  5.3
aDzao n UACZUML DZVrMMT
I tWZn=ri     __powit
zaps" and UPzaduta
Component      am  ft.ftm     UU.i4a.d t/zodianxd                 ctsn~  tm/yea
3±135 Ir ri
- LIa          - C=                    135,000    - A                           30,000
-Dry cc=                      31.500
- o,-PEut                     14,000
- mamu,   - Ri.tzw                     324,000    - rlutIn  p                   17,000
- Jiatal       - skim amm 31.           21,000    - Leathr                      L3,00e
- De An        - Dag.                    s,7so    - OjLea                          750
- 3y-pzndut                    2,010
- QUaM An      - PRI                     1,750    - L4m. pzadna                  2,250
-yam                             330
- 2w                           1,750
-               - CD=  tALzuh           14,500    -Modifid 3t*Zuh               10,000
Liaming FmDVImi
- 0    m       - AP41                   131,50    -Ap1e b4   ag                  7,500
- T   An        - Dehan                 1,l000    - Flutin  p_w                 23,000
- Riu  et               33,000
-aing           -Cc= _b                 12,000    - Frtum1                        1,000
-  &17          -NEWtham  ralt           5,700    - SeIceram    Jaw             10,600
= Zif           -  1oabmm                2,300    - Ot  r _                       1,700
= XInuha.g      - peam_ta                15,000    - Psalm Pzutaiin               3,060
- P_M=t Ol.                    3,520
_AM. land                     10,500
- LL|y-M        - .Nd1  frut              3,300    -   aact--may                    425
- langobea      - esain on"               5,000    - SUIOS all                    2.345
- 3yvdmt                       22.16
- Jimian        - Ippl-/'am a             1,500    - ft t Ctal2dt                 1,500
Dta 4S ball     veib-mlo
D aCbU   aum- appim/Fearm            4500    - Frit CoJal"m4,500
VeIStAbims



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGNICULUIRE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agra-industries and Livestock Processlng
Product nd                       Form         Prod4e    Water       Coal       Power      Permanent
INMVSTMENT CtPoWtN T                 capecity                          Produce     UtII s*d   conauned   Censumed  Constued  Employees
............. ........................... ............................... .................................................................  
Jilin Province Agro-lndustries                                                       ----- Tons/Tear '000 -       --.  Uh/yr.
..............................
-1lshu Arhydrout  Alcohol Plant      30.000 t/y anhydrous alcohol          Malie     135.0     1U4.6          6.U8      23.6        532
-Shuwnqywn  licestrow Papermill    17t000 t/y fluting p per           lice straw      34.0      1.265.0      5.        12.8        450
-Jlutal T.nery                       1.300.000 skins wd hides/y   Hideslskins         26.0       750.0       17.2        7.?        606
-Dloen Gelatin Plant                 750 ty gelatin                 Mixed bome         e 6.8     915.0        8.5        2.2        241
*Iianan Flax Nill                    5.000 Spindles expwnslon               Flex      12.5     1.265.0       19.0       19.6       1641
-Tushu Modified Starch Plant         10.000 t/y modified storch           Starch      14.5        100.0       4.2        1.5        195
Jilin Province Livestock Proceselng
...................................
-Tel Ping sheep sIaughter            500,000 sheep per year                Sheep      20.0      1,250.0       1.2        3.0        350
-Do Kul cattle laughter              50.000 cattle per year               Cattle      20.0       305.0        2.0        4.1        250
-Shuan  LIo, cattle slaughter       50.000 cattle per yeor               Cattle      20.0       576.0        1.2        3.6        300
-Shug Yang deer prodwts              Assorted  phrodleece           Dried Seer        1.6         31.5       0.4        1.5        448                       1
-Nongon goose slaughter              1.100,000 geese per year              Geose       3.6          1.0       0.1        1.0         33                       F
-*Nng'on utgooe feather factory      246 t/y feather processing         Feathers       0.0         30.6       0.3        0.1         48                       H
-*Nnaron garment fatory              3SO.000 gorments per year              Deun       0.1          5.3       0.3        0.         815c
, ............. ..... .....................  ............... .........  ...............  ........., 
S-h total       294.0      8.218.4     126.9       81.4      5.911
Liaoning Province Agro-InduAtrles
-hoicheng apleJuICe                  Oe vrages 7500 t/y                   Apples      33.5      2,400.0       2.0        3.8        125
-Talon Degbane Papermill             Fluting peper 23000 t/y           Dogbne        16.8     5.380.0       20.0        3.8        400
ricestraw      33.0
Kanqping Furfurel Plant              Furfurel 1,000 t/Y               Corn cobs       12.0         12.0       1.0        0.6        130
-Kelaui n Nowthorn Proceesing        5everaget 8 500t/y                Howthorn        5.7        320.0       5.0        1.4        448
-Xifeng Wild Nerbs                  Drld herbs 1500 t/y              iushroom         2.3         12.0       0.8        0.0        200
-Kincheng penut processlin           Proteln/oil 22,706 t/y             Peanuts       15.0        294.0      15.0        7.0        400
-Lleoywn Pectase  plant              Pectase 425 t/y                   Howthorn        3.3      1.392.0       5.0       13.9        258            r m
-Longchens Ses    o l               Sesoi  oll 2385 t/y            Seoam  seeds       5.0         18.0       3.6        1.1        100           F  X
-Jinxl Detaishan cold store          1.500 1 frult cold store              fruit       1.5          6.2       0.0        0.6         25           Ln w
-hoicheng Sattn cold store           1.000 I fruit/voS cold store    fruit/ve         4CS           6.0       0.1        0.4         20
Lisoning Province Livestock Processing
.Che.ngtu cattle slaughter          30000 cottle per year                Cattle      12.0         90.0       0.8        1.2        200
-Chontu rabbit slaughter             8S0000 rabbits per year             Rabbits       0.9         15.0       0.0        0.2          20
Geese       1.6
-Zhangi goose slaughter/feather   400000 geese per year                    Geese       1.3          5.0       0.1        0.3         193
SUb-total       148.4      9,950.2      53.5       34.2       2,519
Totel           442.4    18.168.6      180.4      115.6    8,429.3
..................... ..........................................................................................................



- 117 -
Annex 3
Table 6.1
CHINA
SONrLIAD PLAIN AGRICULTUIRAL DEVELOPHET PROJECT
Livestock and AqmcLuttur, Cocponrnt
Surmry of Financial Rate of Return
Not Anual  Not Present Finrncial Rate
Cah Income    Value          of Rcturn
.___......__.....................,_._..___...._..__._________._________
I. Livestock Cacponmnt
Jilin Provinrce                                     Yun 
__________...
Hosehold Cattil  Fattening            5,373        3,594             35.1
Cattle Feedlot                       14,120       15,547             21.0
Pig Fattening                         3,432        2,344             16.2
Deer Stud farm                         2,203       2,512             18.3
Grassland Development                47.000       31,396             17.J
Liaoning Province
HoNmehold Cattle Fattening             2,754       9.195             40.5
Household Cattie Sreeding             2,30         5,691            23.3
Doer Production                        3,546       21,679            23.6
Goose Fattening                          249          943            32.0
Goose Sreeding & Fattening               440          750            31.0
21. Aquscutture Caupnennt
Shrirp                                 4,699       12,M              21.0
Scallop                               13,995       76,573            38.7
Hard CLom                              1.400        2,996            23.2
Short heck Cm                            as55       2,447            26.6
River Crab                               551        1,651            22.0
_________________.......................................   ____________________ ..................................................... ..



CHINA
SONGLIA0 PLAIN AGICULTtURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agro-Industrles  nd Livestock Processlng Cotqpennto
Revenue  Flnanclel Rates of Return end smnItivity Analysis
. ...................................................... ................... ......................................... ............... .......................... 
Finamncil Rate of Return
Total     Gross      Gross   Rase Case        90S      80X
INVESTMENT CUPO"f NY                           lase  Cost   Revenue   Income      X            Capacity
......... ....................................................... .......................................................................
(Yuan Million)
Jilln Province A.ro-Industrles
.................................
-Elshu Anhydrous Aicohol Plant                   148. 90   142.7r0    40.826           19.1     17.0      15.0
Shuangyang Ricestraw Paeprmill                    43.604    36.143    15.50?          22.8      20.0      1T.0
-Jiutel Tannery                                  107.543   115.353    29.299           17.6     16.0      13.0
-Deaen geletin Plant                              43.625    2S.443    13.366           19.8     17.0      15.0
-Olin'an flax Nill                                n7.049    59.228    25.612          21.5      19.0      16.0
-Yushu Modified Starch Plant                      44. 199    41.760    11.460         15.5      14.0      12.0
...........    ............... ......... ......... .....
44.910   420.677   136.072
Jilin Provinco Livestock Processing
...................................
-lat Ping eshep slaughter                         3T.159      t.370    10.138          18.1     16.0      13.0                                              1
-De Hui cattle slaughter                          60.471   118.00    24.TZ8          27.3      2S.0      22.0
-Shumng Liao cattle slaughter                     28.805    94.702       9.041         19.8     18.0      16.0                                             F
-Shuwn Tan deer products                          32.130'   32.8r5    11.311           23.8     22.0      20.0
-Nongan goose slaughter                            7.615    16.654       3.r29         15.5     14.0      12.0
-Xoangn goose feather factory                      6.355    12.700       2.579        27.7      25.0      23.0
-Nongan grment factory                            11.532    37.500       3.718        20.3      17.0      15.0
...........    ............... ......... ...............
184.067   389.871    65.244
tisoning Province Agro-inikatries
.................................
-Heicheng appleJulce                                32.2    53.1180      8.520         16.1      15.0     14.0
-Talen Dogg'ne Peperutll                            57.0    47. 150    17.742          20.0      18.0     15M0
-Kangping Furfurel Pilnt                             6.4      4.000      1.859         18.1     15.0      12.0
-KaIyuan hawthorn Proceesins                        41.2    64. 760    17.354          28.T     26.0      23.0
-Xifeng Wild Nerbs                                   8.6      3.838      2.739         20.3      19.0     18.0
-Xlnchen pewnut procc cing                          6.5   8e.600    28.493             26.0     24.0      21.0
-l    enig Pecafte prant                            25.9    25.500       7.913         18.6      16.0     14.0
-Lonyaheng  Sesaw olt                               16.3    31.511       4.732         19.9      18.0     17.0
-Jinx, Dataishan cold store                         10.5      8.129      2.919         21.7      19.0     16.0
-halcheng Datun cold store                           7.0      6.200      2.112         22.6     20.0      17.0
... ...... ..... .............. ..........
271.6   337.568    94.383
lamning Province Livestock Processing
tChangtu cattle slaughter                          26.7    66.290    13.042           29.9      27.0     25.0
-Chontu rabbit slaughter                             8.9    12.763       2.581         19.6      16.0     12.0
-zhang.u goose abottoir                             10.7    14.304       5.598         22.1     20.0      18.0
...........    ............... ......... ......... .....
46.3    93.357    21.221
Total          966.9   1,241.5       316.9
......................................................................................................



119  -                                       A=ax 3
Table 7
CHINA
SwIuIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent erd Cost Recowry
.__...__.._,,,_......  __....__.._..... ... . . . ... . .... . . . .. .. ...  . .. . . . . . . .
Crops       Orchard     Livestock       Total
(317,000)    (1U3,000)     (58,000)    (518,000)
._,,,......  ,,,,_,__,,.._.____.. .. . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
At Full Delo#pmnt
Incremental Inco_ a/                           234,808      393,339       158,979       757,126
Less:
ImPited VaLue, F_mly Labor b/                   26,972       18,058        13,969        56,999
lipted Value, Management Services c/            23,681       39,334        15,898        78,713
lIputed Return to Om Capital d/                 11,740       19,667         7,949       39,356
Allowace for RiskAincertainty cl                23,481       39,334        15,896        73,713
Subtotal                                     85,674      116,393        53,714      255,781
Eq - l
ProJect Rent                                   149,134      276,946       105,265       531,345
Project Charges
Water Charges e/                                25,649        13,767            a        39,416
Taxes f/                                        11,740       39,334         9,539        60,613
Ttotl Charges                                     37,389       53,101         9,539       100,029
Total Rent Recovry Index tX) g/                    25.07X        19.17X        9.06X        18.831
During Project's Life h/
Project Rent                                    737,272      917,654       327,366    1,932,290
Project Charges
Taxes t/                                       1OS,660       89,486             0       195,166
Water Charges                                  336,501       255,671      143,085       735,257
Interest NW Loam Repnmnt I                      14,U11       24,366        49,056       87,610
Total Charges                                  456,349      369,523       192,141    1,018,013
tent Recovery Index CX) u/                         61.90X        40.27Z       58.69X        51.36Z
Project Costs J/                                 347,516       251,966      466,779    1,066,261
Coat recovery Index (t) k/                         131.3ZX      146.66X       4t1.16        95.481
_____ __................................___.._......... .... .........          ..  ...    ....
a/ Based en the Incrmental Incom  of form fiLies in the fars madel anlysis before
dedcting project charges ard debt service.
b/ Based on IncrementaL laor vailud at 801 of the mrket wage.
c/ Ten Percent of increm_ntal incins.
d/ Five Percent of incremental incin.
e/ Based on water charges of for wht and rice of Y337.S  nd Y247.5/ha for gravity irrigation,
Y615 and Y420/ha for pump irrigation and Y540 and Y285/ha for tlbeLl irrigation.
f/ Five percent for crops, 101 for orchard and six percent for livestock.
9/ Project charges as a percentage of project rent.
h/ Expressed as present values over 20-yer project ltfe, discouated at 12X.
1/ On-lerding rates for agriculture at 10.961 auly.
j/ Total project costs excludeing farer labor contribution, costs of support services
(repaid frao service fee).
k/ Project charges as a percente  of project cost.



120 -                             Annex 3
Table 8
CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Conversion Factors Used
Standard Conversion Factor a/                               0.80
M&chinery/Equipment b/                                      1.50
Energy - Coal                                               2 12
- Gasoline                                          1 55
- Dlesel                                            1 13
- Electricity                                       2 00
Transpot - Road (state'                                     1.26
- Rail                                            1 25
Labor - Unskilled (rural)                                   0 80
- Urban unskilled(state sector)                      0.54
- Urban unskilled (non state)                        0.80
- Technical & Skilled Labor                          2.00
Other Non-Traded Goods                                      0.80
Earthworks - Aquaculture                                    0 84
- Irrigation                                    0.79
a/ SCF "(Official Exchange Rate)/(Shadow Exchange rate ) - 5.75/7.5
b/ Based on conversion factor of 1.0 for imports under SCB and 1.5 for
locally made machinery and equipment.
c/ Border prices would be used for steel, cement and timber.



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Border Prices for Principal Products and Inputs (1993 Constant Prices) a/
~~~~~~~~~~. . ..... ...... ....... ............. . ... ... .. ....... ............. ... .... .............................................. .............................................................. ....... 
Rice/
Wheat     Corn   Paddy  Soybean    Urea   TSP    DAP   leef    Pork  Poultry Nutton   Shrilp    tog
............................................................................ ....... .............  .........   ..........  ................ .... ...... .....
Net Trade Status                     H         X       N         X       N       N              x      x      x        N        x       X
1993 Prices
Uorld Narket Prices:(USS/t)             170     102     265       263     118    115    125  2,580  2,003  2,067    2,700   11,620    400
ocean Freight:(USS/t)                    45      22      44        25      34     34     34    250      50    300       125      300     20
CIF/Fro  Dalian (USS/t)                 215      80     309       238     152    149    159  2,330  1,953  1,767    2,825   11,320    380
CiF/FOB Dalian (Yuan/t) b/            1,236     460   1,777    1,369      874    857    914 13,398 11,230 10,160   16,244   65.090  2,185
Port Charges and
Distributors' Margin c/              136       66     185       148     104    102    107  1,231  1,036    939    1,487    5,883    222
Transport-Port to Wholesalers d/         9        9       9        9        9      9      9    938    938    938       938       938      9
-mill to Wholesalers e/        13      13       13       13      13      13     13   125    125    125        125      125      13
Ex Factory Price                      1,394     372   1,984    1,198   1,000    981  1,043 11,104  9,132  8,158   18,793   58.144  1,941
Processing Adjustment                                   70X
Processing Costs                                         50
ay-product values                        70      26      44       140       0      0      0
mill gate Value                       1,464     398   1,383    1,338   1,000    981  1,043 11.104  9,132  8,158   18,793   58,144  1,941
Transport- Farm to Hill f/               5        5       4        5        5      5     50     S0      S0     50       S0        50      5
Economic Farmgate Price              1,459      393   1,378    1,333      995    976    993 11,054  9,081  8,108   18.743   58,094  1,936
Financial Faragate Price g/            640      580   1.200    1,800   1,000  1,600  1.200  9,000  6,000  6,400   10,400   39,000
2005 Prices
World Narket Prices:(USS/t) a/          143      91     262       252     146    131    150  2,740  1,900  1,950    1,889    8,990    322
ocean Freight:(USS/t)                   45       22      44        25      34     34     34    250      50    300       125      300     20
CIF/FO8 Dalian (USS/t)                  188      69     306       227     180    165    154  2,490  1,850  1,650    2,014    8,690    302
CIF/FOB Dalian (Yuan/t) b/           1,081      397   1,760    1,305   1,035    949  1,058 14,318 10,638  9,488   11,581   49,968  1,737
Port Charges and
Distributors' Margin c/              122       61     183       142     118    110    120  1,314    982    879    1,067    4,522    181
Transport-Port to Wholesalers d/         9        9       9        9        9      9      9    938    938    938       938       938      9
-Nilt to Wholeselers e/        13      13       13       13      13      13     13    125    125    125       125      125      13
Ex Factory Price                      1,225     314   1,965    1,141   1,175  1,081  1,2Q0 11,941  8,593  7,546   13,710   44,383  1,533
Processing Adjustment                                   70X
Processing Costs                                         50
By-product values                        70      26      44       140       0      0       0
Nill gate Value                       1,295     340   1,369    1,281   1,175  1,081  1,200 11,941  8,593  7,546   13,710   44,383  1,533
Transport- Farm to Nil fl               5        5       5         5       5      5      5      50     50     50        s0       50      5
Economic Farmgate Price             .1,290      335   1,364    1,276   1,170  1,076  1,195 11,891  8,542  7,496   13,660   44,333  1,528
Financial Farngate Price g/            640      580   1,400    1.900   1,000  1,600  1,200  9,100  6,000  7,000   10,400   39,000
a/ Eased on World Bank Coodity Price Forcasts, Augst 6, 1993, adjusted to 1993
constant prices.
b/ Exchange rate of Y5.75 a USS1.
c  Port charges of *25/t plus 92 distributor's margin.                                                                                                     0 f
d/ Distance from Wholesalers to port Is approximately 300 km from Songilao to Dallan
by rail at YO.025/ton/km adjusted by 1.25 CF.                                                                                                              w
e/ Distance from Nill to Wholesalers Is approximately 50 kg by road at YO02/t/km, adjusted by CF of 1.26.
f/ Distance from farm to mill is 20 km on average by road at Y.02/t/km, adjusted by CF of 1.26.
g/ Eased on weighted average of 1992 negotiated and market prices In Songliso.



Anex 3
-  122 _                                                Table  10;1
CHINA
SONGLIAU PLAIN AGRICULTUUAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Suimry of Econaic AraLysis
........................ ...................................................._._
Arnul           NPV         Econormic
Inc. Not Return   C 12S    Rates Of Return
1.  Crops                                    CY'00)       (YTO00)         S
-Sngpo  Irrigation Scdm                       22,743       96,3 343
-Songpo Irrigation Schem                       19,080      79,105             54.7
-Wazhonggeo & Nuajia Drainage schm             12,312      39,602             36.0
-Fuy-Conversion of Wastetard                    7,572      20,U1              28.2
-Flax Pro.  tion                               3,392        15,054            38.4
-teclain of Saline S Alkalinr Lrd             23,861       62,918             25.9
-Conversion of Drylard                        106,357     368,291            48.0
Total Crap Cpoant                          193,817      662,6U8             423
2. Salt & Water Conerv etion                  29,555       54,624             25.4
3. Orchard Develowment
-Apple-pear                                   84,085      206,679            45.4
-Apple New Planting                           116,565     330,563             47.5
-Apple Tap Grafting                           64,545      241,261             59.0
-AppLe Isprovmnt                               10,707      40,314             4.e0
-Pear New Planting                              4,399       13,492            37.9
-Pear Improvement                               3,395       13,402            39.2
-Apricot New Planting (KerneL)                 27,923      62,619             31.7
-Apricot New Planting (Fruit)                   5,094       11,324            30.8
Total Orchard Development                  316,718      917,654            46.9
4. Livestock Devolopnent
- Cattle Fattening-Liagning                    13,076      40,257             29.0
- Cattle Fattening-Jilin                       18,552       73,465            66.6
- Cattle Sreeding-Lisoning                      5,394       10,240            19.6
- Feedlots - JiLin                              2,73         9,775            30.7
- Der Stud Farm                                 1,322        1,637            17.3
- Doer Household Pro.  ction                    0,793       19,366            37.7
- Pig Fattening                                10,230       19,968            20.9
- Goose Breding                                 2,190        3,056            17.2
- Rabbit Proi.ction                             3,346        7,6U6            30.2
- Goose Fattening                               1,971        2,601            17.2
- Gr asland l    _ovemant                      66,275       36,325            18.9
Total Livestock Development                100,323      327,366            27.2
5. Aquaculture Developnent
- shrimp                                        5,2W0       13,390            22.0
- Scallops                                     20,690       69,673            39.7
- HNrd Cl_                                      1,600        3,570            27.1
- Short beck Clam                               1,596        4,577            26.9
- River Crab                                    1,560        2,691            22.6
Total Aquaculture Developmnt                30,726      113,901            25.6
..............................................................................



-   123-                                             Annex 3
CHINA                                               Table  10.2
SOMGLIAD PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summsry of Econamic Analyst.
Agro-Indiutries *nd Livestock Processing Components
.......................................................................................
AnwmL        hPV         Eeorimic
Net          a         Rate of
eturn        12X          Return
...... ......................................................................................
6. Aoro-industrie Component
............. .....................
- Haichng Appis Juice PLant                   6,587          12,925        20.4
- Tat An Dogb ne Paper MILL                  16c929         43,726         24.1
- Lwping Furfural Proeesing Plant             1,867          4,716         24.0
-KaIyumn Nwthorn Produets Plant              15,247         54,659         35.7
- Xl fng Wild Herbs wd Nuhroo                 2,549          7,324         28.2
- Xincheno Peenut Processing                 26 774         89,617         30.8
- Lisoy wi Pectse Enrymc Plant                7,473         19,311         24.4
- Longcheng Sescm  Seed OIL                   8,627         33,365         46.2
- Dataaihan Appie Fan aid Coldstore             681            985         16.8
- Haiching Coldstore for Fruit & Veg          2,673          9,395         35.4
- LI shu AnhydroLm Alcohol Plant             36,713         59.088         18.7
- Shuwng Yano  Pulp £PLapill                 15,126         40,140         24.8
-Jiutai Tawery ad Lether                     25,766         41,196         18.0
-Oinn An Flax Processing                     23,326         47,414         20.4
- De An Sone Gelatin Pr.uetion               13,253         30,866         22.1
- Yurhu Nodffied Starch Plant                10,282         12,992         16.4
- Nonw  An Gaoe Down Garmnt f ctory           2,276          5,4W          23.1
- Shwig Yang Deer Pro.  ts                   10,635         32,18          28.2
- Mong An Goose Feather Workshop              2,103          6,696         28.6
Total Agro-Indutris                     228,912        553,303         23.1
7. Livestock Processing
....................
-Chwtu  Cattle  Attoir                       10,540         33,556         30.2
-Chgngtu Rabbit & Goose Abattoir              2,017           4,756        22.1
-Zhanu  Goore Abittoir                        5,334          22,760        51.3
-Shuino Limo Cattle Absttoir                  9,234          30,U4         32.0
Telpino Sheep Abittoir                      6,459           6,883        15.7
-   rong An Goose Slaughterhouse              3,086           8,303        23.9
-D  Hui Cattle Abattoir                      20,096          54,442        25.7
Total Livestock Processing                56,766         161,538        26.6
Total Project                          956,819      2,811,032         32.2
--.--.-.   .-...--.------.--.._-.------____---.-__......----......-....---.---.



-124  -                                               Annex  3
Table 10.3
CHINA
SNGLIAC PLAIN AGRICLTItAL DEVELOPENT PROJECT
Summry of Sewftivity Arliysls
.. .. ............................   .............._ .      ...... ...... ........
Switching Value G 12X Redu        Price  Invtamnt  Irpit
ha SO ............-.-enf Its   Folls    Costs                 Costs
Case                          UIncremse   by      Increse Incrs
ERR   BeC ffts    Costs    Coats by    102        by 10    by 102
1.  Crop Caponnt                           *2.3      45.0         31.5      29.0     37.0       39.6      40.0
2.  Soil.   w ater Conservation             25.4     59.0        145.0      42.0      23.8       24.3     25.1
3.  Orchard Develop nt                       6.9     51.8        161.5      4.6      42.7       45.1      "4.J
4.  Livestock Devetoopmt                     7.2    -17.2         20.7       9.3      18.3      22.0      21.3
5.  Acmculture D.wtur    o -nt              25.8     20.2         18.5      21.2      13.4      24.1      22.5
6.  Agroin   tiles Cowponant                23.1     1Z.3         14.0      10.0      14.3       21.3      16.6
7.  Livestock Processing                    26.6      7.5          8.1       3.9       5.3       25.6      8.9
TotaL project                           32.2      29.5         28.4   - 1J.0      28.2       29.2      30.8
...........................................................................................



-  125--                                           Anne.x 3'
*                       -                         Table 11.1
*   ZM PLAI AmLOAL UM T tM-
NW  14S1_v Inaug - JIti 
Tow I         T_m 2          T_3             *_             t-
IudIm,                 sWet  Ptim    iAmL  PtIvnd  AaL    PItuW  AuUm   Ptwd AeMm   Pt*    Maul
LOW Beelafaw for Peo    he
cm" lnmrmw           he
* hPu m La
U so
Apis. Walie~iw   u
Wiewi,l Pta             he.
,  _               ~~~.
Prttlew               t
-wftftlfm           E
b Tm*wI  Traening
- Cmw, Tde1ie           p..
*TrainRing appa         M
* usw   -t              w
........
AWe
* _w Ptwlng             he
* To brftrig            he
. _wwm *_w3
* l  mw*h*
_ _                      e 
* _m *'ueFeuf           he
aEm AP                  he
.W                    Em
AgrgwmismL              hem
Pisrtft   Iritame e
_wowri tilit"w
tfid r
PayIeW             tJ e 
- Irrifettd Most Arm
wumt Yeled         tM
_bt   t a      4     o
Cm  I-nw           too
CM"n P  r"t1        Em "
Se_b.m Yield       tAs
Nediciws Pt~si       Em
- N~e*,l Pir
rsot  by Spi-t     t/1
YiLdh N" imtm
ute *teld               Vhm
Apte  tlFi
Per Yield              ton
Powr  =*Atlm           tEm
Apreit TieWd           tIe
Aprimt P    _tim        Em
Apiaet-tarv.l fie*d    tiN
Apricmt-e     PwmiPntdu"   tn



- 126 -
Annex 3
Table  11.2
am
_uo zIpu tiIe              In,4.  ~''
Mw Nodh _mIghOW  - LI_wdt Rvilmo
poetm& Peep
6diseIm s                btk    Pta_   Mint  PiuuW  Aini  Ptm            Mint  Pi_    *aff   Ptiwu   Min
Irr4g.gte  94jr-om        he
IrrtIg.g  9-4ugI          he
IrrCm m _                 hm
a_b   I_t
_   AA
id go Arm-
-cam                   km
besumin md u~ttinkqw
*TsmAp T.digiu,        p.s
Cmafty vashoitio      p.e
Trelnieig Emi4W          mm
Whiieta
POPti tim:
-SW                    an
.etmtessm bA0MqM       ton
'AM~w lirt.            in
Pism Sin4elff             he
_ srlmis                an *_
* gtur.o falitia        _
L omal ?r.fmTor          p..
* ?rmnleq of armtw,      p..
* r.ifheu of      --     - 
T raining of nwow        p..
&t tdI                    la
-_- - t
OI ~-Por Aom
*Lluha Amu               be
* rnswtkAIng Ann         he
__iw Inge                 t
Patfilge                 em
Ag' mhWasta               mm
- Tr aining
kits"   m   _
go ari^td voe tww_
Larc                      he
*tu-sw                    he
-wtf                      em,
1 -M  t_
Be aanL. _         
NW%                       ton   h
Apomomcss                  i



CNINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROEJCT
Key Monitoring indicators - LleonIng Province
Year I              Year 2               Year 3              Year 4               Year 5
~~~~~~~~. ..... ......... ....... ........... ..... .... ................. ................
Unit    Planned  Actual   Platwed  Actual   Plained  Aetutl   Plnned  Aett'l   Paiwned  Actual
....... .... ...... ..... . ...... .............. ........ ................ ... .... ........ ................ ............. ............................ ... .... ... .... ..
Performance Indlcetore
.......   ..........................  ..
field Crops
-  Songpo Scheme Area
Paddy Yield               t/he
Paddy Productlon           ton
* Songql Schem Aree
Padd*  Yield              t/he
Peddy Productlon           ton
-Irrigated Wheat Area
,heat Yield               t/he
Wheat Production           ton
Cabbage Yield             t/he
Cabbage Productlon         ton
Drainage Iprovsmnt
- kuaji Area
Corn Yield                t/he
Production                 ton
Soybean Yield             t/he
Soybean Prouctxtin         ton
- Vwngzhonggao Area
Corn Yield                t/he
Production                 ton
Soybean Yield             t/he
Soybean Production         ton
Peddy Yield               t/ho
Peddy Prockctlon           ton
Flax Yield                      t/he
Flax Production                  ton
Orchards
LishuIConuxhuliln Area
ApWle-Pear Yield                t/he
Apple-Pear Production            ton
Soybean Intercrop               t/he
Soybean Produetlon               ton
Soll * Water Conservation
Apple-Pear Yield                t/he
Apple-P' er Production           ton
Larch Yield                     M3/he
Larch Productlon                  3                                                                                                                                        w
Popler Yield                     Wi/ho
Poplar Produiction               *
poplar    Production     m3              .............................................................................................................. ......... .  . .  ...



-128-
Annex 3
*                   Table  11.4
IMM    SlAN MI        L _niL  _m v ,ejur
B  Owd ft _thsw  - ivftoo  _ou
.     . . 4'4    .d n  *
Ywt             1_2?wJ*-Z-
I9tmv                   MSt ptWu   Leat  Pt_   Mt  PtM z   eant    I    Mfm    Ptwe ur
oaf Cattl Paftu,Ie UR1
SrinE  atl  inl 
Ll_tt        m-
eerm Uornal* P,it 4ie   Sa
lina Pett4uU _
_ 4t            *~e 
_f *s _ta  lw           d 
m. of Anmksa
:,C.nt                  so.
11resding CmSu.ne       p
..ie T"I"4v       te     _
II*wdt.                 NaC
* _t Sin     C            a.
.... LetrN...... 
*I  tte       -m
*      l_t               Na
PrDow  Si      Eds
* Cent.
* UEre.1 _I_
swsw Letter n
_f Whik n mee 1 "wp 
mm         r
nr Conto Uft  n
-= ~~~
UiiattIip,0 6
sho                   me. 
panter Iti. 
,: Pe_Si                -
P f    1t noie  o
-.E *1g P it. Sibp
Pig Prm.                 U 
-o -Em Pine  e.   U
TConlt
4ztinIe. Cm
*ttaIs Inkar..fte    p.
-laer T.~,eImme          p.
*Pee,.me                 de
*Pmnen.ite         
*. dUer                  Na.
-Pis                     s
* Xtatta        
._ hite
* Pig 



, J                                                   _ Annex 3
Table 11.5
_Xu    PU              L _r   r
bw __ l_  -    -                       _
_Lmwu                    fbt:   M
1      -                  mlt__
"bflown                  m
CM et  _o           '    at
- IetSI                   St
-Trwhifd                __l
*LinM    1.wltim         ma
* top  _                   3I
- @dlt Meri
* teiglni.
- CIVi   _                 2
*                         "3dt  
* Trultng               pwm
lieU Cim SiAu,,
-Civil work              ma
* sildeq                  El
*                         "3t_
Traeiningeu
* Civil We                m
- Vdi_m                    St
* - -blt                  m
* Weld.                   em 
* 1r,i.I                p,S
- Clvi Creb               ma
-                         "3d  _
* Weldt                   _E
_ 1PUIAhiw              p.u
- Stlding                 at
* l*i t                   "
* Wemii.                  e
* ?.Ne
* Civil  _e               ma
* Slding                  ma
Tewining
*iv crabl      
* 3t1_
C* Wl§es
- elieCl.                 U2
. tdlnT
* Uh¶ li    l 
- livrab P      r
* ,,t_1                   U
* bad Ct.                  /
- Clt_  --               ks/Mt
*     el                  b/m
- au dIn                   RI
Wliin f
- 4 aa _u"d
* l.a&i 
11saits"                 a
Nor  Cl_ *r
*shle""        Ct_ *
*sleat Lo               wdi
Sam ._M                   ao



ANNEX 3
_   130.                                                Tab"  11.6
CHINA
SONGUAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Monitoring Indicators - Irrigation & Drainage Component
Physical Ptog               Udit      Yw I              Yew 2                  Yew 3                 Yew 4           Y_ 6
Plumed Actual     Pluauaed Actual        Planed Actual         PIMa Aine       Pbiwd Act
Jan Prowe
Scheaw
A. Eathw a
Pumping                000 M'
Main Canals            000 Uo"
- bunch Canals          000 Ml
- On-farm works         000 Ml
B. S    btwea
-Gates                    No.
-idges                   No.
- Syphons                 No.
- Culvert                 No.
C. Installation of
Eqlipment
- Pumps/Motors            No.
Transmission LUns       Km.
Transtorrrers            No.
2. Song Po k    tlepn
A. Eartivorks
- Pumping Stations      000 M3
Mein Canals            000 M3
-   nch Canais          000 M'
On-term works           000 Ml
- Main Drains           000 M3
Branch Drains          000 M'
S. Stiuctuxa
- Gates                   No.
- Bridges                 No.
- Syhons                  No.
- Culverts                No.
C. htstaledn of
Equipmet
- Pumps & Motors          No.
- Transmission Lanos      Km.
- Transformers            No.
3. Waho    G o s   Hwua
A. Eafhwks
- Pumping Stations      000 MI
Main Draim             000 Ml
- Brnch Drains          000 Ml
- Field DrminS          000 Ml
. StucuNrs
-ridge                    No.
-pip"s                   Km.
- Gates                   No.
- Culvero                 No.



_  131_                                  ANNEX 3
Tab.o 11.7
CHINA
SONGUAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Monitoring Indicators - Irrigation & Drainage Component
Physical P mugrs        Unit    Yew I                   Yew 2                 Yow 3                  Yew 4                Year 5
khdstor
Planned Actual        Pwed Actual           Plumed Actale           Planned Actual      Planred Actul
4. Fu Yu
Groundwater
A. Wela                ko.
I. Pumps &            No
Motors
C. Transamsaon        Km
Unsa
0. Transformer         No.
Uoanng Proie
1. Reclamatbon of
Wastabnd
A. Earnhwfo.*a      00 
Pumping
Station
-Main Canal      000 Ml
BSnch Canal    000 M
On-form Canal   000 M'
*Drains          000 M'
S. Stuctumac
- Gates              No.
- Bndges             No.
- Syphons            No.
- Culvesr             No.
C. Instalation of
Equipme m
Pumps &             No
Motors
Transmnssion        Km.
Lines
- Transtomter        No.
2. Grundwster
krigaton
A. Deep Wells          No.
B. Shallow Wells       No.
C. Opon Wells          No.
D. Pumps &             No.
Motors
E. Trsnsfmfsion        No.
lines
F. Transtormers        No.



-  132  -                  A                      4
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTDRAL DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
Supervision Plan
The proposed schedule for supervision work is as follows:
Proposed                                   Expected Skill            Staff Input
Dates           Activity                   Requirement               (staff-wek.)
no/yri
OS/94     Pro1ect Launch "orkshon          Procurement, Financial              I
Review procurmnt*,              Managemnt. N a E and
finanial eanagem-nt,            Auditing Specialists.
reporting, M & E. and
auiiting.
10/94     Suervimion Niosion               Economit, Irrigation  ngin ar,   10
Supervision toa  will visit    Agriculturalist, Livestock
LiaCing and Jilin Prov, to    Specialist, Aquaculturalist.
review irrigation/drainage      Agroprocessing Specialist.
field/horticultural crops,
livestock, aquaculture and
agroprocessing cowxonants.
04/95     SuDervision Mission              Economist, Irrigation Engineer,   10
Supervision tea  will visit    Agriculturalist. Livestock
Jilin and LiaonUni  Provy to    Specialist, Aquaculturalist,
review progress of irrigation  Agroproceaming Specialist.
and drainage, field/
horticultural crops,
livestock, aquacultur. and
agroprocessing coponmnts.
10/9s     suervirion Mirion                Irrigation  nginser. Agricul-        10
Supervision team will           turalit.* Specialist, Livestock
review progress of irrigation  Specialist, Aquaculturalist,
end drainage, field/            Agroprocessing Spcialist, and
horticultural crops,            Economist.
livestock. aquaculture, and
agroprocessing componente
in Liaoning end Jilin Prov.
04/96     Sunervision Mission              Economist, Irrigation Engineor.    10
Supervision team will carry    Agriculturalist. Livestock
out a review of the project    Specialist. Aquaculturalist.
covering all project             and Agroprocessing Spcialist.
cqonpaents in Jilin
and Liaoning Provinces.
10/96     Suo rvision Mission              Economiot, Irrigation Engineer,    12
Review team /one each for        Agriculturalist, Livestock
for the major componentas        Specialist, Aquaculturalist.
will be organized to carry       and Agroprocessing Specialist.
out a aid-term review and
agree on ch nges and follow
up actions.
1997-     Sunervision Mission              To be determined according
1999      Based on needs of project        to the needs of project.
but at least one supervision
a year, last mission to
discuss PCR with borrower.



- 133 -
Annex 5
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICDLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Prolect
A.1       Orchard Development Project, Liaoning Province, Songliao Plain
Agricultural Development Project Management Office, March 15,
1993.
A.2       Feasibility Study Report on Red Fuji Apple Development by
Exploitation of the World Bank Loan, People's Government of
Chaoyang County, February 24, 1993.
A.3       Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project (Liaoning)
Appraisal Report, World Bank Agricultural Development Project
Office, Liaoning Province, June 1993.
A.4       Feasibility Report on Songliao Plain's Agriculture Developing
Projects in Siping Prefecture- -Apple-Pear Planting in Dahei
Mountain Range, Pomology Institute of Jilin Agricultural
Institute, Agricultural PMO of World Bank Loan in Siping
Prefecture, March 1993.
A.5       A Study of the Feasibility for the Project Mecharization in
Agriculture Engineering, Changchun Institute of Farm
Mechanization, February 1993.
A.6       A Study of the Feasibility for the Project of Mechanization in
Agriculture Engineering, Supplementary Material, Changchun
Institute of Farm Mechsaization, June 1993.
A.7       The Appraisal Report on Songliao Plain Agricultural
Development Project, World Bank Loan Project M-nagement Office
of Jilin Province, March 1993.
A.@       The Tentative Design Report for Planting (Breeding) Project
with Producing 12,SOO Tons of Flax Original Stems a Year of
Oian An County Office of Leading Group Utilizing the Loans of
World Bank for Agriculture of Qian An, February 1993.
A.9       Feasible Research Report on Modernized Agriculture Development
of Songyuan City, Agriculture Machinery Bureau of Qianguo
County, Fuyu Region, Songyuan City, May 1993.
A.10      Feasible Research Report of Using World Bank Loans to
Construct the Production Base of Irrigated Wheat in Fuyu
District, Songyuan City, the Academy of Sciences of
Agriculture Crops Research Institute of Jilin Province, May
1993.



- 154 -
Annex- 5
CHINA                         Page 2
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Pro-ect File
A.11        Feasibility Study on Grain Development Project-Liaoning;
Liaoning PMO, February, 1993.
A.12        Feasibility Study Report on the Agricultural Development
Program of the Shongua and Liao Plain Region in China,
Irrigation and Drainage Works of ChungChun; ChungChun
Institute of Water Resources Design & Exploration; Jilin,
March, 1993.
A.13        The Supplementary Feasibility Report on the Agricultural
Development Program of the Songliao Plain Region in China,
Irrigation and Drainage Works of ChungChun City, ChungChun
Institute of Water Resources Design and Exploration; Jilin,
June, 1993.
A.14        Feasibility Study of Fu Yu Groundwater Irrigation Scheme, Fu
Yu County Water Resources Bureau; Jilin, June, 1993.
A.15        Assessment of Ground Water Resources in Liaoning Province,
World Bank Liaoning Cereal development Zone, Liaoning
Province Science and Technology Specialists Consulting
Department for the Design of Water Resources and Hydropower;
Liaoning, 1993.
A.16        Assessment of the Effect of Saline-Alkaline Wasteland
Reclamation and Rice Cultivating on Water Environment in
Zhangwu County,  Liaoning Province Science and Technology
Specialists Consulting Department for the Design of Water
Resources and Hydropower; Liaoning, 1993.
A.17        Typical Design for Pipe Well and Canal System Wheat
Irrigation Project, Liaoning Province Science and Technology
Specialists Consulting Department for the Design of Water
Resources and Hydropower; Liaoning, 1993.
A.18        Typical Design for Large-Diameter Well Wheat Irrigation
Project, Liaoning Province Science and Technology
Specialists Consulting Department for the Design of Water
Resources and Hydropower; Liaoning, 1993.
A.19        Typical Design for Pipe well Rice Irrigation Project,
Liaoning Province Science and Technology Specialists
Consulting Department for the Design of Water Resources and
Hydropower; Liaoning, 1993.



Annex-5
CHINA                         Page 3
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.20        Environmental Assessment of Songliao Plain Project, Edit by
the World Bank Agricultural Loan, Project Management Office
of Jilin Province; March, 1993.
A.21        Appraisal Report on Songliao Plain Agricultural Development
Project (Synthetical Part); World Bank Agricultural Loan,
Project Management Office of Jilin Province; March, 1993.
A.22        Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project (Liaoning),
Appraisal Preparation Report; World Bank Agricultural
Development Office, Liaoning Province; June, 1993.
A.23        Feasibility Study Report on Goose Series Project by Using
world Bank Loan in Nong An County; Commerce Design
Institute, Jilin Province; March, 1993.
A.24        Songlia Plain Agriculture Development Project in Siping, Pig
Raising Project, Feasibility Report, Jilin Province;
February, 1993.
A.25        An Appraisal Report of the Agriculture Integrated
Development Project-Breeding Mutton Sheep on the Songliao
Plain, The Project Office of Chngling County, Jilin
Province; March, 1993.
A.26        Feasibility Report on the Establishment of Stud Rabbit Farm
Project of Chaoyang City, Liaoning Province; May, 1993.
A.27        The Report on Animal Husbandry Services System Construction,
Fu Yu District, Songyuan City, Jilin Province; March, 1993.
A.28        The Feasibility Study on Beef Cattle Raising in Fu Yu, Shong
Yuan Municipality, Jilin Province; March, 1993.
A.29        Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project, Final
Preparation Report (Main Report and 8 Annexes), FAO/CP;
December, 1992.
B.    Working PaDers
B.1         Detailed Project Costs.
B.2         Irrigation and Drainage Component.
B.3         Field Crop Development Component.
B.4         Orchard Development Component.
B.5         Livestock Development Component.
B.6         Aquaculture Component.
B.7         Agroprocessing Component.
B.8         Soil Conservation Component.
B.9         Economic Analysis of Project Components.



- 130.-                               CHART 1
CHINA
SONGLTAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Project Management Organization
Bureaus of
Agriculture,
Livestock,icial                                         chnicl Adviso 
Water Conserv.
& Aqugculture
Administration       cFincnce         Engineering/        Procurement
Planning         A  ccounts       H L Msnagent  j X      jf
Municipal PLC
Bureaus of
Agriculture, 
Livestock,    - - - -            unicipalP
Water Conserv.
L Aquaculture
&    [ Administration  |      Ac counts   |      nineering &|
|Planming & Train. |        T -             Procurement
County PLG
Bureaus, of 
Agriculture, 
Livestock,    - -_               County PM0O
Water Conserv.
& Aquaculturc
Adminixtration      |Account7  |     Engineering |       rcurement|
Planning&
Training



Songliao Plain ADP
Jilin Province
Supply and Demand: Fenguan- Hadashan Reservoirs
2000.0
1 800.0-
1800.0~~~~\                                                          Total Supply
1600.0
E 1400.0
U1200.0
<,  c 1200.0  \         /                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Surplus  
I 000.0                                                                              tal Demand
¢ 800.0
C600.0
400.0                                         _
200.0
0.0                 .        .      .        .
1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8       9       10      11       12
Month



-  139 -                                       CHART 3.1
China - Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project
Userlbg Provinoc
ImplernntatIon Schodul
195 19    9- 119 999-   2000  2001r
Name
1 Songliao Plain ADP - Uning Provin e                                                                    Son li-o Plain ADP - UaoninC
1.1 errigation & Drainage                           _tion L Drai go
1.1.1 Reclamation of Saline-Alkaline Wasteland
1 .2 Conversion of Drvb4nd to IrTigated Wheat
1.2 Fied Crop D   pmnteopmnt
1.2.1 Fertilizers
1.2.2 Agro,mnchinery
1.3 Orcharde
_ ~~~~~~~~~Orch rrds
1.3.1 Apple Now Planting
1.3.2 Apple Top Gratting
1.3.3 Apple Inprovement
1.3.4 Peor Now Planting
1.3.5 POOr Improvement
1.3.6 Apricot New Planting
1.3.7 Apricot New Planting for Kernel
1.3.8 Apricot Improvemwnt
1.4 Uvetock Developm                                                                       c                  Development
1.4.1 Cati Production_
1.4.2 Rabbit Production
1.4.3 Door Breeding
1 .4.4 Deer Production
1.4.5 Geese Production                         __I_I
1.4.6 Abattoirs (catUe, rabbit & shtep)
1.4.7 Down Proceseing
1.5 Aquaacure
1.5  Aquaculture                          Aquaculture            !         I
1.5.1 Shrimp
1.5.2 Scallop
1.5.3 Hard Clam                                                I         T
1.5.4 Short Neck Clam
1.5.5 Crab
1.5.6 Cold Storage
1.5.7 Hetcheriee
1.6 Agroprootsing                                                       Agroprocessing
1.6.1 Furfurad 
Piqect Senobe Pwn ADP - Liem.       Ck"  cGPeiS.mwyw
DO: 1I23193
Tmk MnwL: R. Jmwj                                                M bme                        a.. Up O
1



- 140-                                           CHART 3.2
China - Songliao Plain Agricuttural Development Project
Implenmeaden Schedule
994     1995     1996  I 1997       1998      1999     2000      2001
Name                                                  lTTT
1.6.2 Poenut Protein
1.6.3 Ucoyang Hawthorn
1.6.4 Kaiyuan Hawthomr
1 .6.5 Xifeng Wild herbs
1.6.6 Bluih Dogban_
1.6.7 Sesame oil
1.6.8 Apple juice
rr.e: SwnkaO Pion ADP -            cIei  Crib"dm OF
am : II121313                               _ _ _ _ _  _  _                                     g
mk Me-aww FL Jd.wd                 MUWS                        Mum..Lop
2



-  141  -                                          CHART 3.3
Ching-Songliao Plain Agricuttural Development Project
Jun Provinoc
Impnementation Schedul
1994   j  1936   j  1996   j  1997   J  1998    1  1999    1  2000
am.e                                                                                           JQ*3040 A 3Q3 Ia21 a03 0              II(
Songiso Plin ADP - JWin Provinoe                           I          I          I          1                 Songliao Plain ADP - Ji
1. 1 Irrigatiort & Drhnaio                      v                                                           Irrigation & Drainage
1 1. 1 Songi Irrigation Schema
1.1.2 SongPo Irrigation Schema                                                                     ______I__
1.1.3 FyYu Groundwatr lrrigaton Schm                            _
1 1 .4 WazhonfGao & Huejis Drainage Schema                                                                    __
1.2 SBo & Water Conservatlon                                        l                                       Soil & Water Cornervat
1.2.1 Structuree
1.2.2 Small Reservoirs & Wells 
1.2.3 Larch & Poplar Plntation                                           =                                         _
1.2.4 Pinguoli Plantation                                                                                          _
1.3 Field Crop Development                              I           I          I          I                 Field Crop Developr one
1 .3.1 Fertilizers
1.3.2 Agromchnery                                                        =
1.4 Orchards                                                                                                Orchardc
1.4.1 Pinguoli
1 .5 Uveetock development                                ;          '                Lvectock developmen               __
1.5.1 Cattle Production
1.5.2 Sheep Production
1.5.3 Door Production
1.5.4 Goese Production
1.5.5 Pig Production
1.5.6 Abattoirs Icattle, rabbit & sheep)
1 .5.7 Down Processing
1.6 Agroprocessing                                       I          I           I     Agroproceasing              _
1.6.1 Yu Shu Modified Starch Plant
1.6.2 U Shu Absolute Alcohol Plant
1.6.3 Shuang Yang Rice Strew Paper Mill                                       _     _
1.6.4 Qianan Flax Textile Mill
1.6.5 Jiu Tai Tannery
1.6.6 De'An Bone Gelatine Plant
ict: Songlio Plain ADP - Jln      Crttical                      Pro...o                       Surnrv y
:e: 11/3/03                                                         t                          l-U
;k Managor: R. J.isOrd                                           Il*                          Rold Up



142                                                 CHART  3.4
China - Songliso Plain Agricultural Development Project
Agrolndu_Me and Livtock Proce_shg Component
Typicl Impberntation Scheduis
11     1994                1995                 1996                1997
iame                                                         JF      I       N I IJ |S DIJIFLW    |J IJIOINDDIJIF  J FS|O JMF   | JiA
I AgroindustrIe and LUvetock Prooesaing Component                              V|  Agroindustries _nd
1.1 Land Acquisiion                                           Land Acquisition
1.1.1 Site selection
1. 1.2 Soil load testing
1.1.3 Water ewnple
I 1.1.4 Negotiation for purchase
1.1.5 Legal releme of land
1 1 6 Site purchase
1.1.7 Site area clearanoo
1.2 C_i Desin and LC   dding Procedure                                      Civil Design and LCB Bi dding Procedures
1 .2.1 Auxiiary buildings 
1.2.2 Production building                        t
1.2.3 Civil specifications                      I
1.2.4 CIvi tender preparation 
1.2.5 LCB tendering                               i                       _ _          _
1.2.6 Opening bids
1.2.7 Bid analysis
1 .2.8 Place civil orders
1.3 Civil Construction Work                          T                                            civil Construction Wo
-.-
1..  ielayot1                                           
1.3.2 Boundary walls
1.3.3 Site levelling
1.3.4 Power lines
1 .3.5 BoreweUlls
1 .3.6 Office buildings
1 .3.7 Plant buildings
1.3.8 Effluent plant construction
1.4 Equipment specification and ICB Bidding Prooedure    _  Equipment specification and ICB Bidding Procedures
1.4.1 Equipment designispecs
1.4.2 Bidding docurnents
1.4.3 Translation to English
1.4.4 Printing                                     i   l
1.4.5 Send to Machimpex
1.4.6 Approval by SPC                                     -
1.4.7 Approval by World Bank
1.4.8 ICB Bidding Procedure                           _                         _
roomi: Sorch.. Pt.n AOP             cuiPvspnm                                                  5a-ys,
mae: 11/31C3
ask MsnbW: IL Jaseed                No  g                         Mimtua                       P.  Up
1



- 14'3.-                                               CHART 3.5
China - Songliao Plain Agricuttural Development Project
Agroindustrie. and Lestock Proomeshng Componnt
Tvlkal I_mplmentation Sehedule
1994       1       1995                1996               199,
Name                                                    i4tM J  hN4hlDIJIFIMhl  IJIAS INtDIJ JF|AJIJJLSJOOND J F
1.4.9 Opening bids                                                 *  |
1.4.10 Bid analysis
1.4.11 Approval by SPC                         A
1.4.12 Approval by World Bank
1.4.13 Plce orders 
1.5 Equpment hlbtaUaton Work                      -  -                                                       Equipment Installat
1.5.1 Equipment deliveries                    _                     _                  _
1.5.2 Equipmnt instAllation
1.5.3 Pipework installtion
1.5.4 Electrical cabling
1.5.5 Comrnbionis g__
1 .5.6 Product trials
1.5.7 Effluent plant testng
$wc .rjmft*   dn ADP                                                 _  _  _  _  _  _
aks a138 R.a~ftam up
k Mangem_~ K.. J_     u
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Chart *A
'  CHINA                                           PUOCtIJMUET tCHtDULE FOR IOUIPOT AND MATERIAtS                                                                     EsL fll s f   ?OVINCC    LIANIPG
Package I                                                         VI__         II
Construction Kateriala    ICE   6.3544 ava.e
Package 2
Chemical fertilizer           IC!  7,757  *~n
2Package  I                           __. _                  
Plastic Imaterials            Ica  7.305                                                 t                                                         T          I Ie
|  god goods  Aing                             L                                                --  - - - - -                                        X zm  
package 4
Spialiaed Vehicle             IC! 12.415 1
?ackag1 5                                     Cot                 I    - e_
Specialzled Ve_hicle          lCD 12.256  Aaya..                    =
2nd Batch                                CA
Package 6Am
Agriculture. Machinery        ICE    741
and Equipment                                                                                   *a
Agro-froceeaving              IC!  18,024  Nymg               
Etquipment                               ATA         p
I/ Base Costs          ac~ueMey            gp*.m M IO A.IN   meyeet            *ee*L EWIYIIY
ma~waavme a~,mma                                                                                                                           in'..e a. ,.a,..m
a~mNo "A,WeWNa                                                                                                      PAUL OML-10U Al ?s  . mo,U..tt ..m.,m
04SAMAN" *P  low ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~* ~eme



lopM "C. lo
Chart As
ate I of 2
CPOCURIJNMINT SC"HDUL5 PON IOUWUIT AND AMATINIALt S
_______________        _ CRIIUt                                                                                                                     AP 9' O n       IP ICK  JILIN
PackhaeI I tIIc               I                       _
Steel. l Ber. Cent            tCC   10.483.  _      - _ _         _
Package 2-3                                                            V'
PCeical Fertilizer/           13   .87.             -     - -        -   -           e
Peticides
Package 
Ce.ent(2nud Batch)            IdB  1,000.0 Ill."l-                             -     - 
Package 5
Diesel                        Ica  2.405   a".-- .--                                        ---~
Package 6-7                                                                     W-    7
Construction Vehicle, a.  ice   |.859.4 |             -
Specialized Vehiclesa     ___            AC'".                
Package S                                     lAIlL _-l                                                        
Cattle Slaughter and          Ice  4.199       S.
Processing
Packaga 9                                              4    -L
Sheep Slaughter and           ICa     "93.   "Me  _ _. _            _
Processing                                elf
Package tOlc 
Coose Slaughter and           lC    .I28.9 Mv-a            -- -
Proceasing  I____
Package Ii
Mcdiilaed starch              icR   3.034.0 u.4:    -   -
A-Mm"m sSmawuNYsuMinuUA&u  yo.                                 MI Oh "uJARAMI 0U ,ucac ".660.  C,M s Wf.t             H OAC0`6.g?".%   tellg.9*.00c6u
*te       ;     _     _     Id10.    ^t__ _n            _ ComC   _..a.o    thu   e _ah.  _v*  =hW  ea e60 .uc    eC _  l3 _t. !Fe#
9-wor-'''-!, 6wA aw".W '0    m.W   to oe..w                  p~" e4| c...2  -"..ca..>
5-6 ftStea4_I 0    mehu".u *°_                                 .o0t oe e,v  c.,_a*.ceucs_Ilts                         l ee_ *%Sc lEll a-ce_" |       te C"enx 1  *-t 
to cow ee_e>e-w X *^w B      R__,@,t ft *"COW:  * ee O ALCO-11ID
w zw1_||we-t_tca_teuro   t esze^yese.Xe¢z|_zeIxoeg   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~co-
*_eziALeaTm ee_low"_e"*e
1-4ltvCW.M PO.LWIMDT



FORM NO i1`3
Chart 45
tag. 2 of 2
en*t:  CauwA                                                   PROCUREMiNT SCHEDULE FaaI IaLWWtNT A,D MATIRIALS                                                                           IIOVIlCtI  J IL11
A'S         MIWAIW~~~~~~~~~~~s 4                                         S969
Package 12                                                                                                                      M
Lishu AlcohOI                   ICB    .378.9 AIvWD                                                                                                                                                           - _  -   - --
Package 13
Straw Paper Hill                ICe   2.771.7 I*ina  _            _              - _ _  _ _ _
Package 144                                                                                                                                              4-
Leather Processing              lCD    .150.7    w      _                                              - 
Package 15
Gelatine Processing             IC   1  226.4  m.msm;
Package 16
Flax Proceuuing                 IC&   4.766.8 AUIn@ I
Package 17M 
Tractors (Datch 1)              [CB   1.270.5   O*         -    -         -   - - -    |           -
Package la10R~
Tractors (BitcIm  2)            ICb   .270.52 M*".  r _    - _ _
Package 19                                                                                                              7g
Tractor* (Batch 3)              ICB   1.270.52 RtnCI   _          _   _ _.
Packate 20                                                         t                                                                                            in
Tractors (Batch 4)              ICB   .210.52 02--a           ~          
Tractors (atch  5)   l           CID  1.270.5aW 1    A                                                                                                                                                                      J  I-
a-'S Ieua          .l_tS.                                                                                                                                          KG-bII 010-       0
-aRDn.A  om A  c         a. e.                                    p a mA    "v   Ltfs                                          ,1   ..0 -2..15   -I S.lt nc  -  coa c*    .G
*_IIAScgIC "^Ax   nminio SND 01t0.A' M"                                                                                                                                mdio ..so
411cmtOP M"MACVOW FMMeAA1.FsCAVIDsalef*oa,alm.Al,.. tICAAO*ICOin'O   10*                                                                            ofVA  S oo,--110
a-_aatu^^_t    5a             "M         la                                II'A
or owcoks!gumvmpo~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
.)



- 138 -                          CHART 2.2
Heilong Jiang
|Nen RiverX
Had\sa RsrorrFirst Songhua River                            m
\planned:4 ?2BCM)                       (REQ. 04.2 BCM
38 3BC
Fu Yu Station
- >lll17.2 BCM
Ca cond Wate Su     River
(Req. 0.300 _ CMu F__w_
Hadasa ReserS                          ong Po Irrigation Scheme
(planned:4.2BCM                            (REQ. 0.062 BCM)
ChanE Chun Water Supply  =5N
.~~~~ -W           -ilin
{Req. 0.300 BCM)    
Song Qi Irrigation Scheme             Scako  tto
(Req. 0.050  CM1)
Fengman Reservoir
(Existing:10.2 BCM)
Inflow 13.6 BCM
Songliao Plain ADP
Snhematic Drawing
Songhua River nystem



-  139 -                                      C        3.1
China - Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project
U4ne P       °onm
kwplamornrutn Sdadi
1994  |199E  |1996  | 1997  | 1998    1999  |2000  |2001|
NameJ
1 SongIac Pbtn ADP - Wanin Pro                             $;                                         Songlijo Plain ADP - ULonin
1.1 Irigation & Draohgo                                                                        _Irriaton L Dreinago
1.1 .1 Recli~auton of Selina-Alkahin. Wwartlad
1.1.2 Converaion of Drand to Irrigatod Wheat
1.2 Fold Crop Devloment                                                                        _Field Crop Dovopment
1 1Forailzonr                                                                           |
1.2.2 Agromehinery
1.3 Orha rd                                                                            _  Orcha rd                   _
1.3.1 Apple Now Pla ntin
13 32 Appi* Top Of tting __
|am     1  3.3 AppleIrnrovnt
1 3 .4 Poor Now Paning 
1.3.5 Poor lmprovvnt n
1.3.6 Apricot Now Planting 
1.3.7 Apricot Now Planting for Kernel              _l                                                                 _
1.3.8 Apricot irnrovHnont                                    |                                                        _
14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uvoctoek Dobevon       +[1b+ iv okDvdapment_
|   1.4.1 Cattb Production                                                                                                _
1.4.3 Door firo ding__                                                        _         
1.4.4 Door Production_
1.4.5 Geese Production___
1.4.6 Abottoirs (cattle, rabbit L shehpl                      
1.4.7 Down Processing                                   I
1.6 Aquockeulu                                                     
*           s _ ~~~~Aquocuituro
1.5.1 Shrimp
1.5.2 Seallop                                  __                                         
1.5.3 Hard Clam                               -    __                                    
1.5.4 Short Nock Clarn
1.5.5Crab                                        _                         
1.5.6 Cold Storage 
1.5.7 Hatcehries__|
1.6 Agroproeoosing                                                     Agrprocessdng
1.6.1 F-urturol                                                                                              i
Dow. I _ _ _ r
Took Mw"r FL^ Jew               |     WWmmu                                                  ~u



- .1A0) -                                    CHART 3.2
China - Songliao Plabi Agriculral Development Project
u-rn
bnI.mW.Mm agdiweud
1994    I 9sSJ 1996    11997    1998    13999    2000    2001
1.6.2 Pawmn Prt_n
1.6.3 Usotene Hhown                         _
1.6.4 Kaiuon  Hnwth                                                                          _
1.6.s aifno Wldh tw=                                                                   =       
1.6.7s0 _*" ON
1.6.JAppl4be Mae
Pos   I    _no-u _w
Dow I ll^"j
T_8n_,:t J_ __ J_w                                *.W Up



-  141  -                                        CHART 3.3
China-Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project
Jin  Provinee
Impbemfenution Schedue
1994   1  1996   1  19s      1  1997       1998    1 i99"   1  2000
Name                                                  3      _03 1041  0Q3 41 ¢12AQ3  ¶4aQ   3    1 Q3g]4Q1 Q34_i0
1 Songlla Plain ADP  Jn Prwu                                                                                           Song    lain ADP-
1.1 iugatuon & Draitge                                                                               _  Irrigotion & Drainage
1.1.1 Song0i Imgation Schwme                                                                                        [
1.1.2 SongPo Imgaion Schma                                 ______
1.1.3 FyYu Groundtwor Irrie ton Schw_l! m 
1.1.4 WazhongG o & HuO  Drainage Sch                                               t          im
1__ ___ __  ___  __  ____W___      ___e__C                                                                Sor    WaerCanen
.    ,         ~     ~    ~~I  Fil C_pDvlpn
1U2volt  eWaConoonc l c | _Sot L Wdtor Copmetrv
1.2.1 Sttratumztn
1.2.2 Snhoel Rourvoim L Wed
1.5.3 Deerh  Proplar Ponto
1.2.4 Pingudi Pdntction                                                                                              _
1..5 Peld   ProoDuo_lopm nt                 *;_M   Foid C_rop Deveiop_ne
01.3.1 Fertilizon                            _               t m                   l                     l         i
|_      1_3_ 1 32 Agromc_ cn_ry_                                                                                           _
1.4 Orchardesrhed
156 Uvestoek de _ioprrnt                                                                               __
_________                        __  iUv otoek dovloprpnt
1.5.1 Cattle Production__                                                                                            _
152 S S heo p Production   ; 
reek~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ _aae  .Jssi  ~ elUluo.Rle  ~C
1.5.3 sDoorProduct=iiIn
1.5.4 Goes* Production_
1 5 5 Pig Production _
1.5.6 Abattoirs leattb, rbbt * sheepl);                           _
1.5.7 Down Processing 
1.6 Agroprooeming                                                                   goroesn
1.. Uf Sh Asolute Alco:hol Plant [  
1.6.3 Shusrng Yang Rice Stmw Pqr MilN            i11t                       
1.6.4 Marlon Rex T xdb Util                                  I71"M
1.6.5 Jiu Toi Tannery=
1.6.6 Da'An Bone Goi tine Plant                 li
Om 111'3J  93i"s 
Took Manaor Ft JoWeard     |       Noniia L~T- L+ 7        > ^    Itono                      Pklld Up 



- XL42_                                         CHART 3.4
Chins - Songlio Plain Agricuttural Development Project
Agreirduuvrie an Uiestock Prefseakig Conponent
TyPlee hI,pl.mher"atin Seliaduie
Name                                           F       J TJF                       JF  *rS
1  gridura  1994           1995               1996               199
N                                                     .  J |FI|v|J1J A[SODJ|EfiJI ASIOINFIIWMJJ ID NJ lFW>IAIJIJIf~  j^@ lk J|IIAI J
I A_r__ind_o__ _ and  Li__ to_ k P___________c _ _ _                                                          Agroindustnes on.
1.1 Land Acquieden                                        Land                                                _______
1 -11 Site seoefton
1.1.2 Soil load tesung
1.1.3 Wator wnpble
1.1.4 Negodadon for purehaee
1.1.5 L  o h_ d""  of                       _ 
1.1.f Sits pureheo 
1.1.7 Sitewo el sra_ne
1.2 CIA Design end LCU Bdding P   -         _ri                        Civl Deign and LCB Bidding Procedures
1.2.1 Au Msry buikngo                            
1.2.2 Pro-duetionrbi W  ng            
1.2.3 Civil apeoficadone                    _  _                                                          f_      _
1.2.4 Civil tender prtparefon
1.2.5 LC8 tneridetng
1.2.6 Opoerno bids
1.2.7 Bid anyss                              .                 U _ _ 
1.2.8 Place eivil orders
1.3 CMI Conotruetion Worwk                                           C Con_________Wo_rk
1.3.1S Ite laout                             _  - _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _                      __ _ _ _ _ _ _     i _ _ _ _
1.3.1 Site levelling                                                                         ortrcio w~
1.3.2 Boundary wake                                                        1'
1.3.3 Site bevoliNng__-                                                                                   I
1.3.4 Power lineo e-
1.3.5 Borewesl|
1.3.6 Officeo buildings                      _    _
1.3.7 Plant buildings
1.3.1 Effluent plant coneod aon
1.4 Equbrnent epeolflcatlri an d ICB Bidding Pregeduree      ~                Equipment epecification and ICB Bidding Procedures
1.4.1 Equiprent deoignispece
1.4.2 Bidding docunents
1.4.3 Trandiison to Englsh                                           1 _                 _
1.4.4 Prining                                                        1    _             |   _
1.4.5 Sond to Mactirnpex                       f      |_E____
1.4.6 Approval by SPC
1.4.7 Approval by World Bank                                         I _    _     _ |_
1.4.1 ICS Bidding Prorfure                        |_
Mn:~~~~~~ I 1,                                          _
T_k M&_wr: FL J*__                 "Id  __ *11111_MM                     Uee up
I             __      1~~~~Pep



14'3.-                                             CHART  3.'
- 143.
China - Songllso Plain Agricuttural Development Project
Agrainduetise and LU ltek Pmeeemg Copnet
Typii i_mpuon n u   Shedule
_      1994                i995                1996                19'
Name                                                   J10                                        N     J.JA.JI DNJWgJtA[S,OINO  JFtsT J4J SliD5
1.492 Oparming bidse                                                      
1.4.10 Bid a*nly b
1.4.11 Approval by SWC                         _  _
1.4.12 Approvel by World RPl
1.4.13 Place order s                               _          _
1.5 Equipment Inlbfati n Workt                     _  _                                                      - Equipment Install
1.5.1 Equipmnt deliveries
1.5.2 Equipment indtallaon                     _  _____
1.5.3 Pipework installation
1.5.4 Electrical cabling                                                                     _ -
1.5.5 Comnrisaion__ng                                 _                                                         |
1.5.6 Product triais
1.5.7 Effluent plant testing
Dow, 1 1___
.                 ~~~~~~~2



Chart 4A
CHINA                              FO~~~~~~POCIUIUIMNT KH01AI pOeI ImieNTm  AMS MATIIBIAt                     in   SosJ.nI,!Aia r1Bf       _!VINCft LIAOWIPC
N.om,sm G a"           -                                   ea 
Facliage I
Caaatructio.i materials    Ica             ".weccs                      
Cheelcal Pertlileer  Id   ?.?57  -              =        = - -   - ~~~- -- -   - --            
Plastica  faertialize        Ica  ?.jos  acama                          =    --              -       ---
Package 4                                                                                                                                                                                     
SlmutciallseadVeicl          ice  2*A0S  ccm                -=-                                               
Spacilaiied Vehicle          ice  2.2SBc.ne--
2nd Batch
Agriculture. Machineary    [Cs   *414~ie- 
anA Iquipeent
Piackage I
Agro-.Proesaing             [CB  18.024                     -11..a
I/ Bae. coats                                                                                              m  imiw a
S-inn I.cu anca  UinOM     e,.aaafl. ....'CL                           .a..    c..cc  min.i...                    aa.L. aa.4                      "G, aft~ff
am a,M.a*aua*VdM,c.a    La   ..   ..a  ,c.... aac,mcIa
*          n      a       naBa WfS     ca,   ...as&%                                                             IIn.at... a.It.f .fcc



Carut As
Prf IMENT 9CI1DULI CON EOUWWU5I AND MAtIA0LS
f   C_IIIA_                                                                                    _                                      f. gt. Pi.14  Anp            PROVINCEu  JILIII
mminw Ira ~   ~ ~ 1~                                  la. *.,9in9a -.
_________                                         if . ~ ~        I    Et1iI"  =f  1  UI i slllSElux 131lll;ii§xl2Xsii  liEi~dl11ji-  ~i
Package I                                                                                                                                                                               - - - - - - - - - - -
Steel. Timer. Ceme-nt          ice   NJ. 413. I   'm     -    .
Packaes 2-3
Chenial  t!artilizerl          ICI IC  1.9  =                                                                                  -                                            - --  -  |  - -  -- 
pestic idesat
Packages 4                                                                                        Li
camant(d match)                iIc   I.00.8 m             -    - 
Package 5
DiegIl- - - - - - -    - - -
package S-i
Cos cinVeh  Icts a,  Ice  l.359.4 mo                                               
SpclliedVeICcles                                                                                                                                T
Package 
C.ttle slaughter and           IC_     4.l99  mo s
s_e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t_ rt0_Z --  -----
Sheep Slaughter and             ca     493.      s
Processing                                                                                              - n                                              -      -- 
PVikaga 10                                                                                      _S       _#AMI
Coos. Slaugthter end           IcR    .2.   os                                                                                    
fisces!n in
Package of
modified starch                Ica   1.034. ,   n
.ssinatega,MI                              onoog.eeq mum.~      :L    - 
a  ,.an...,in..nina.en,inserraS.l*  I .Ifls* ImrSuIun ,bC5C.#   inOOinbon  5 te15.a,in rnt1,I        as .in.*..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t'



Chart 43
Pae 2 o1 2
PHOCUtIIMI  liDutCi FOfI laUn?NT ALND MATEIALuI
b W  1  -- 1w113 0   01                                                        to                       to                                                   -9   @t 
Package 12
Lick. Alcohol               3d    *3,09  '    -- -==-                   - -
Straw Paper  Mil            ECU   .fll.leeeae .-- _        -_.          - _ .-                              - .          -           -   - T  +   t   i- -   ----------
C,a                         ic tle.fe@s"  IS1. 22t., _-_____        00                               1     X11                                       I        l          l
Package 14                                                                                     I 1 I 1   I1
Leather Processing          ice  1.150.?  a                               
Package 5       |F      ie    r
Package 16
Flea Proce_eisg             *C *M.i-_ m--sa                                --___-                                                                - -- -   - -=
package 19
Tractors (Batch 2)         Ica  1.23O.52Sem       -
Package 2
tractora (Btatch 4)         iS .230.52 mS                                                      
Package 20
Ice~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Tractor. (Batch 5)          IC   l7.5ees 
oc~~~~    I    ',  --- ]   I  -                                                    -~~~~~~se..  e atlhe
c-ann--u ineaeets*Stea                      * -a"  M. *n
a-   eesoc.eSWtSosove'eo4
*IcetS t*tee tt tlett a
9-Sl SvattMtCinl an ~~~~~~~~~~~~flt5 tea  - as asseet - in.te.eSttCtI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~bon-4
a-mo,tsi. S,el in meeaSd..



- 147...
*6
hi
U
H
a
0
II __
ii  __ __
Uhi
he
0
U
hi
a
0
a..
hi
U
a          a
he         U



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE PROJECT
fRoroD CIOYING CAUNDAR
WAuDACCvED AILA
B?    OCT   NOV   DEC   JAN    13    "a    APR   HAT   JUN   JUL   AUG    sIP   OCT
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Corne1..                                                                  Cars
Soybean                                                                    Soybean



149 -   ~~~~Figure 5.3
- 149-
as~~~
Xe-~~~~~~~~ea
0. 
!A I
0 
4511e  3 
OI       _ _
Za 45
oi    E_
0~~g
_ U '



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE PROJECT
rtowu  CRotYIN CAI4A
FLAX M QIAJ4' Coum
Di EP    OCT   MOY    DEC   JAN    n3     me    At   HAT   JUN    JUL   A11    3          OCT



CHINA
SONGLIAO PLAIN AGRICULTURE PROJECT
PRoosED CROPriNG CAtxDAR
SEP   OCT  Now   DEC  JAN  FED  NAN   Al   HA   JUN   JUL   AUC  SEP  OCT
I   I .., I ocs I TAtEX:Ft~~I I                                                      U
Whe at                                                  Wheat             L
beans                                                                             _
(Relay cropping)                                      M___I1en.
Soybean                                                           Soybean
Paddy                                                          Ries l_____






RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN
rFION(;JIANG
MONGOLIA
>    REPUBSLIC                               *                                                                                      soNUO                 N                                   4
JAPAN I
\t/ XINIIAN(G                                             _/                                                         rF g  .5  ()NIN  )PR         An
. AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                             G           <            >"4e tEA                             U.
I&*   w   J s     b -   r  p=s °A        9-UNH                                                                                                JE.S
F., "   - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,P
of Th. W. A.* ~ ~        ~         ~          ~         LOPOWS           -.    ~      -*'o
Ud                                                      HAA                      I                                SHANDNAI
ONsX                                       * d.,                                  DCHUAN       J 0  OFGJ I                           A 
-i        HN -w           a                                                                > 0  (
th F7ROVINCF  CAFSTALSEr 5 rlJNeAN                                                                                      J / ,AJ                                                  ,
_  tROVINCE80UNDARIES  ;0 7            2              e        2           t                     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HA
tNTERNATIONAtSOUNDARIES  g   _|9   <,NAM    \_  tt7 tX    '                 \   HOHGlONG,UK~~IfusE
§ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~u orlso xo o  w    z                     5 _ S          EFES-) S{     wPIlPNS                                                   ( 
SO GLA                 PLISN   1   z      0 AGIULUA    DVEOPMN            HHIAD                 n                   r                                                                   






'U.
SONGUAO PLAIN AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,,,ft   5'-_-A                                          H E   L I      N G J I A N G
#~~~~~ CfEIL.N.G !ANG
oW.AT_ j&~-                                   '    4
*  .0" v *
Al~
or amCArr",,u-/_. 
Wuts 0 5 5                    c6i b                          . t-          -
0mm" iImAf                            , G   
W !VSTOCK Ml5SG ,
*AC.1 NOcSSIG MAIWT
tAOfa                                  7 " *>   ° q       §           *
: -sf                                                                            *AUt-  Nu
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao"
j 4tAu                                                       I
-  . -   :.N>.. A"Ef                           / r    -- 
_ . : ..-_I  I  I N
-.  - *  A°°,/ °
NE I M O NGOl                       -- 
0~~~~~
, ' \  j  ,.-'             aS's,o'^'.  
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                    " 3-    fwJ  
_,,14~~~~~ *<b"r                                                                              / )
*O                            ~~~LIAONING 
, t   -  -   *   . -  -  °-                               .,-   ~~~~DEMOCRATIC
C          s;-       *                           ,-'        ~~~~~~~~~~~~PEOPlE'S
_"C                                   , *9o ,.'REPUBUC OF KOREA
N-q  ~               d
0  -g 
'*       *  w..
H E B E I          * -RUSSIAN                                                                   ' '
M        DEMOCROATA
I'-'t'   .  N 'D  OF
~~~~_-   _  -                             PEPE',   Sp  
F.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~W0
-~~~~~                                              REPUBUC OF KOREA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
,~~~~~/         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
; w5 ~~~~~~~4                                    --  # _- -
.0         s     1t 0
-  .        wto.
"onm ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        t     PC
iw~~~~~~~~~~-                                                 5 ~



