Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2571-CHA
(Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LIAONING PROVINCE and JILIN PROVINCE
Dated March 23, 1994
Credit Number 2571-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and LIAONING PROVINCE and JILIN PROVINCE (Project Provinces).
WHEREAS: by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-eight million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR148,500,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS: the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Associaion's entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Project Provinces declare their commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out their respective parts of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, agricultural and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for their respective parts of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Provinces shall otherwise agree, the 
Project Provinces shall carry
out their respective parts of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Project Provinces shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and their respective parts of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Project Provinces shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
project, the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Project Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Project 
Provinces of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of their 
respective parts of the Project and of the departments or agencies of the Project 
Provinces responsible for carrying out the Project.
(b)
Each of the Project Provinces shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
Page  3
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
Section 3.02. Jilin shall construct the farm-level drainage networks related to 
the Song Qi irrigation scheme under Part A.2 of the Project in accordance with 
construction plans satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Jilin:
Jilin Provincial Bureau of Finance
60 Stalin Street
Changchun 130051
Page  4
Jilin Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
83109 JLFB CN
For Liaoning:
Liaoning Provincial Bureau of Finance
No. 103, North Nanjing Street
Heping District
Shenyang 110002
Liaoning Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
1908
804129 LNFB CN
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of one of the 
Project Provinces, or by such Project Province on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Vice Governor or such 
other person or persons as the Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and the 
Project Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
JILIN PROVINCE
LIAONING PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  5
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the 
respective Project Provinces shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued 
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to 
be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the respective Project Provinces shall use 
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic suppliers in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association, except that works for small canals, drains, land development and minor 
site preparation estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $18,200,000, may be carried out by force account.
2.
Specialized vehicles and equipment, computer and office equipment, 
agroprocessing equipment, pesticides and livestock supplies up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $5,400,000 may be procured under contracts awarded through limited 
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in 
accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding 
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.
Small pumps, motors, irrigation, fishery and electrical equipment, pipes, farm 
and livestock tools, small processing equipment and materials and supplies estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $45,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association.
4.
Items or groups of items for miscellaneous small equipment, supplies, 
furnishings and small production inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $29,000,000 may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
5.
Contracts for saplings, seedlings and livestock and aquaculture breeding stock 
which can be obtained only from one source in the area may be awarded after direct 
negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Page  6
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of such Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Project Provinces in carrying out the Project, the 
Project Provinces shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Project Provinces shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard 
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications 
as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Project Provinces shall use other standard 
forms agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A:
Irrigation Schemes under Part A of the Project
 
1.
Jilin shall: (a) by June 30, 1996, prepare and furnish to the Association for 
approval, a plan of operation and maintenance for the pumping stations in the 
irrigation and drainage schemes in Jilin under Part A of the Project; and (b) by 
December 31 of each year, review and revise the charges paid by water users under such 
schemes so as to cover all operation and maintenance costs by December 31, 2000.
2.
Liaoning shall prepare and furnish to the Association by October 31 in each year 
a report on the groundwater monitoring and assessment during the preceding May 1 to 
April 30 for each of the
areas in Liaoning developed for groundwater irrigation under the Project.
3.
(a)
The Project Provinces shall cause the dams and reservoirs supplying the 
irrigation systems under Part A of the Project to be maintained and inspected 
periodically in accordance with sound engineering practice, under arrangements 
satisfactory to the Association.
Page  7
(b)
The Project Provinces shall ensure that all persons who are involuntarily 
resettled, or whose rights to land are compulsorily acquired, under the Project 
receive adequate compensation for assets, logistic support for moving and relocation 
assistance.
Part B:
Agricultural Inputs
 
1.
The Project Provinces shall ensure that the imported fertilizers and pesticides 
provided under the Project shall be sold to farmers at prices which cover the costs of 
procurement, transportation and distribution.
2.
The Project Provinces shall ensure that:
 
(a)
all agrochemicals under the Project shall have been approved by the 
Association; and
(b)
the storage, handling, distribution and use of such agro-chemicals shall 
be consistent with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
Part C:
Livestock Processing and Agroprocessing
 
1.
The Project Provinces shall:
 
(a)
ensure that the final designs for effluent treatment for each livestock 
processing plant and each agroprocessing plant under Parts E and G of the Project have 
been approved by the relevant provincial environmental protection bureau prior to 
beginning construction of such plant; and
(b)
ensure that each enterprise shall monitor and treat effluents from such 
plants adequately before disposal, under the supervision of such bureau.
2.
The Project Provinces shall:
 
(a)
by June 30, 1998, cause the semen produced by the artificial insemination 
stations under Part E.2 of the Project to be sold at prices which cover the full cost 
of production; and
(b)
cause the goslings produced at the Changtu hatchery under Part E.1 of the 
Project to be sold at prices which cover the full cost of production.
Part D:
Project Management
 
1.
(a)
The Project Provinces shall ensure that all Project activities shall 
conform to environmental standards and guidelines, including the environmental 
regulations and guidelines issued by the National Environmental Protection Agency and 
the Provincial Environmental Protection Bureaus, which shall be satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
To that end, the Project Provinces shall each prepare and furnish to the 
Association for its concurrence an environmental management plan for Project 
activities, by December 31, 1994, and thereafter, shall implement their respective 
environmental management plans as agreed with the Association.
2.
The Project Provinces shall maintain or cause to be maintained:
 
(a)
a project leading group at the provincial level to coordinate Project 
implementation among various local agencies, with composition and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
a project management office at the provincial level to undertake 
day-to-day implementation and coordination of Project activities, with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association, staffed by qualified and experienced 
staff in adequate numbers.
3.
The Project Provinces shall, by April 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to 
the Association for review a detailed statement of approved budgetary allocations, for 
Project implementation for the following year.
Page  8
4.
The Project Provinces shall ensure that all training, including study tours, and 
research under the Project shall be carried out in accordance with training and 
research plans satisfactory to the Association.  To that end, the Project Provinces 
shall cause their respective Provincial PMOs to prepare and furnish to the Association 
for approval:
(a)
by October 31 in each year, the research plan proposed to be carried out 
in the next year; and
(b)
by October 31 in each year, the proposed plan for domestic and overseas 
training and study tours to be carried out in the next year.
Part E:
Financial Management
 
1.
Each Project Province shall on-lend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
through the local government finance departments to farmers and to enterprises, in the 
form of loans bearing interest at rates no less than the prevailing rate charged by 
ABC or other commercial banks acceptable to the Association to farmers and to 
enterprises for similar loans for similar purposes, of similar maturities.
2.
The Project Provinces shall establish and operate three revolving funds in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a revolving fund for agricultural inputs, financed from the proceeds of 
sales of fertilizer, pesticides and fuel under Part C of the Project;
(b)
a revolving fund for financing new livestock production activities, 
financed from the repayments of loans made for activities under Part E of the Project; 
and
(c)
a revolving fund for new well development and water-saving pipes, 
financed from payments of loans made for wells.
Part F:
Reports
 
Without limitation to the reporting provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Project Provinces shall:
(a)
furnish to the Association by March 31 and September 30 of each year 
during implementation of the Project, a report on the progress made by the respective 
Project Provinces in carrying out the Project; and
(b)
by not later than October 31, 1996, carry out a midterm review with the 
Association and the Borrower of the progress of and prospects for Project 
implementation.
