CREDIT NUMBER 2571-CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        , 1994


﻿Credit Number 2571-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           , 1994, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by Liaoning Province and
Jilin Province (the Project Provinces) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
each of the Project Provinces a portion of the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Project
Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "ABC" means the Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized
banking institution established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower.


﻿- 2 -
(b)   "Environmental Management Plans" means the respective
environmental management plans agreed between each of the Project
Provinces and the Association in accordance with paragraph D.1 (b)
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(c)   "Jilin" means Jilin Province.
(d)   "Jilin Special Account" and "Liaoning Special Account"
mean the account established for Jilin and Liaoning, respectively,
in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(e)   "Liaoning" means Liaoning Province.
(f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Liaoning Province and Jilin Province (the Project
Provinces), of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(g)   "Project Provinces" means Liaoning Province and Jilin
Province.
(h)   "Provincial PMOs" means the provincial project management
offices established by the Project Provinces in accordance with
paragraph D.2 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(i)   "Special Accounts" means the Jilin Special Account and
the Liaoning Special Account, collectively, and "Special Account"
means either of the Special Accounts.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the 3orrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred forty-eight million and five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR148,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of


﻿-3-
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars one special deposit account for Project
activities in Jilin Province (the Jilin Special Account) and one
special deposit account for Project activities in Liaoning Province
(the Liaoning Special Account), each in a bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protec-
tion against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of
June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i)    from the date sixty days after the date of this
Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
and
(ii)   at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the
next payment date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)    at such places as the Association shall reason-
ably request;


﻿- 4 -
(ii)   without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated
or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commen-
cing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2029. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on February 1, 2014 shall be
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-
1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever:
(i)    the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and
(ii)   the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Execu-
tive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment
of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount
of each such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the


﻿- 5 -
Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
provided that, in the judgment of the Associa-
tion, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause each of the Project Provinces to perform all its
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each
of the Project Provinces to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1)-(4) of the table set forth in Schedule
1 to this Agreement to Jilin and allocated to such Categories (5)-(8)
to Liaoning, on the following principal terms and conditions:


﻿- 6 -
(i)    repayment over a period not exceeding fifteen
years including five years of grace;
(ii)   interest at a rate of 5.3% (five and three-tenths
percent); and
(iii) commitment charges and foreign exchange risk over
the repayment period to be borne by the respec-
tive Project Provinces.
Section 3.02. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by the Project Provinces pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31,
1996, carry out a midterm review with the Association and the Project
Provinces of the progress of and prospects for Project implementa-
tion.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices records and accounts reflecting
expenditures for which payments are made out of the Special Accounts.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of


﻿-7-
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, or enmure that there are retained, until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
or payment out of the Special Accounts was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the    Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are includ-
ed in the annual audit referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section and that the report of such
audit contains a separate opinion by said audi-
tors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Either of the Project Provinces shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that Project Provinces
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by each of the Project Provinces, and is
legally binding upon the respective Project Provinces in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                Telex:
FINANMIN                     22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                      248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
(-t-4uRegional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit              % of
Allocated        Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category             SDR Equivalent)       Financed
For Jilin Province:
(1)   Goods                    66,500,000      100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
75% of local expen-
ditures for other
items procured
locally
(2)   Works                    13,500,000      50%
(3)   Training, study           3,200,000      100%
tours and consul-
tants' services
(4)   Unallocated               3,700,000
For Liaoning Province:
(5)   Goods                    49,900,000      100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local expen-
ditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items pro-
cured locally


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit              % of
Allocated        Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(6)   Works                      7,700,000      45%
(7)   Training, study            1,600,000      100%
tours and consul-
tants' services
(8)   Unallocated                2,400,000
TOTAL                    148,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR10,500,000 may be made in respect
of Categories (1), (2), (3), (5), (6), and (7) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after July 15, 1993.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and works not exceeding $400,000 equiva-
lent, and for expenditures for training and for works carried out by
force account, under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the
development of its market economy by increasing agricultural
production, farm-family incomes, rural employment and women's
participation in economic activities in Liaoning Province and Jilin
Province by increasing the productivity and marketability of crops,
fruit, livestock, aquaculture and agroindustries.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Irrigation and Drainage
1.    Reclaiming about 6,200 hectares of wastelands for paddy culti-
vation in seven counties and converting about 21,300 hectares of low-
yield corn areas to well-irrigated wheat in ten counties, all in
Liaoning, through construction and equipping of pumping stations,
tubewells, gravity irrigation facilities, water saving pipes, and
drainage facilities and land preparation.
2.    Expanding the Song Qi irrigation scheme to provide irrigation
to about 3,600 hectares and the Song Po irrigation scheme to provide
irrigation to about 4,500 hectares, converting about 2,000 hectares
of dry-farmed corn to well-irrigated wheat in Fuyu district in Song-
yuan Municipality and improving drainage on about 11,500 hectares in
waterlogged areas, all in Jilin, through construction and equipping
of pumps, pumping stations, water conveyance and associated control
structures, canals, irrigation network and associated structures and
tubewells.
3.    Strengthening the institutional capabilities of the agencies
of the Project Provinces responsible for water conservancy to plan,
operate and manage surface and ground water resources through the
provision of training facilities and overseas training, study tours
and technical assistance to improve data collection, processing and
analysis relating to ground water, floods and soil reclamation.
Part B:    Soil and Water Conservation
1.    Establishing about 11 soil and water conservation areas in
Shuangyang county in Jilin, through construction and equipping of


﻿- 14 -
check dams, gully head protectors, intercepter channels, and
associated cross-drainage works; afforestation with larch, poplar and
fruit orchards supported by the construction and equipping of catch-
ment dams and tubewells for irrigation; and planting and cultivation
of appropriate groundcovers.
2.    Operating one of the soil and water conservation areas under
Part B.1 above as a model demonstration watershed for training
farmers, providing training through visits to other watershed manage-
ment projects in China, and providing additional training in Shuang-
yang county to farmers and agricultural extension personnel in the
construction of small engineering structures, orchard planting and
management, soil and water conservation, and watershed management.
Part C:    Field Crop Development
1.    Provision of agrochemicals, tractors, farm implements, equip-
ment and tools, and storage and supply facilities to farmers in
Liaoning and in Jilin, for use in irrigated paddy and wheat culti-
vation, and construction, equipping of and upgrading staff training
for fuel storage and supply stations in Jilin.
2.    Supporting cultivation of medicinal plants in Kazuo county, and
development of seed production base for flax in Qian An county,
through provision of seeds, fertilizer, storage facilities, training
and transportation and construction of a flax processing factory.
3.    Strengthening crop extension services in the Project Provinces
through the provi.,ion of training, equipment and vehicles, and
through the provision of technical assistance for adaptive research.
Part D:    Orchard Development
1.    Establishment and improvement of about 6,200 hectares of new
orchards and of about 9,220 hectares existing orchards in Liaoning,
including construction and equipping of two fruit coldstores, provi-
sion of agricultural inputs and training of farmers and technicians.
2.    Establishment of about 5,000 hectares of new orchards in Jilin,
including provision of agricultural inputs, irrigation facilities,
equipment and tools, vehicles and tractors, and shallow tubewells and
sprayers and training for farmers and county technical staff and
establishment of experimental and demonstration plots in Gongzhuling
and Lishu county.


﻿- 15 -
Part E:    Livestock Development
1.    Supporting the integrated production and processing of live-
stock in the Project Provinces, including development of production
and processing facilities for cattle fattening, cattle breeding,
sheep breeding, rabbit breeding and production, deer breeding and
production, goose breeding and fattening and pig fattening.
2.    Strengthening agricultural support services related to live-
stock production and processing, including artificial insemination,
pasture development and livestock extension, through development of
the artificial insemination system, provision of laboratory and
related equipment and vehicles and training for extension staff and
farmers, and undertaking livestock research.
Part F:    Acuaculture Development
1.    Development of low-lying mudflat wastelands in Liaoning for
shrimp, shell-fish and river crab, including constructing, equipping
and stocking ponds, scallop fields, hatcheries and associated facili-
ties, as well as freezing, cold storage and processing facilities and
provision of trucks for transport.
2.    Strengthening aquaculture support services through provision
of domestic and overseas training for farm technicians, managers,
hatchery operators, farmers, and processing technicians, and monitor-
ing, laboratory and office equipment and vehicles to the Bureau of
Aquatic Products, Marine Research Institute and extension services
to enable them to monitor the coastal environment.
Part G:    Agro-Processing
1.    Construction, equipping and rehabilitation of five food proces-
sing plants, a liquid aldehyde plant, a paper mill, and a sesame oil
plant in Liaoning.
2.    Construction, equipping and rehabilitation of an anhydrous
alcohol plant, a paper mill, a tannery and leather manufacture plant,
a gelatin plant, a textile mill, and a starch plant in Jilin.
Part H:    Institutional Support
Strengthening project management capabilities of the Provincial
PMOs through construction and equipping of offices, provision of
office and teaching equipment and vehicles, and provision of training


﻿- 16 -
and overseas study tours for related government personnel in Project-
related subjects, including engineering management, financial admin-
istration, accounting, auditing, material procurement, loan assess-
ment and project appraisal.
Part I:    Environmental Protection
Implementation of the Environmental Management Plans of each
Project Province, including undertaking an environmental monitoring
program by Liaoning in both culture areas and shellfish areas and
undertaking an integrated pest management program and monitoring its
introduction in a pilot area through provision of training and equip-
ment to strengthen pest management programs, training personnel
responsible fo. spraying agrochemicals, and provision of equipment,
training, study tours and operating funds for the environmental
agencies responsible for environmental monitoring under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means, for the Jilin
Special Account, Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, for the Liaoning
Special Account, such Categories (5), (6) and (7);
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means for the Jilin
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $7,500,000 and for the
Liaoning Special Account, an amount equivalent to $5,500,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into such Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that one of the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the respec-
tive Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into such Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i)    For replenishment of such Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into such Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 18 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule "or the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
such Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of such Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of each Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
a Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals under the eligible Categories should be
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the Project for such Special Account,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the respective Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
for the Project for such Special Account shall follow such procedures


﻿- 19 -
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of one of the Special Account:
(i)    was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or
(ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or
(B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into such Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in one of the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.


﻿- 20 -
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and tne
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


