Report No. PID5812
Project Name              Bangladesh-Mitigation of Arsenic in Groundwater (+)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Water Sector
Project ID                       BDPE50745
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Local Government and
Rural Development Dhaka, Bangladesh.
PID Date                         July 29,1997
Projected Appraisal Date         December 1997
Tentative Board date             May 1998
1.      Background:              Groundwater in Bangladesh is contaminated
with Arsenic which occurs naturally in alluvial and deltaic
sediments. The first detection in 1993 and subsequent confirmation
after 1995 of high levels of Arsenic in numerous shallow and deep
wells in various parts of the country has raised serious health
concerns. Recent investigations, though incomplete, confirm that the
occurrence of Arsenic in groundwater is more widespread than assumed
at first and that it already affects a large number of people. Wells
in 28 out of Bangladesh's 64 districts are estimated to be
contaminated with Arsenic mainly in the south western, middle and
north-eastern parts of the country. Although 1,000 cases of chronic
arsenicosis have been reported in Bangladesh, it is estimated that
at least 1.2 million people are exposed to Arsenic poisoning. The
effects of Arsenic poisoning can vary from skin pigmentation and
development of warts and ulcers during initial stages to skin, liver
and renal deficiencies and eventually cancer in severe cases. Other
disruptive effects include diarrhea and social rejection as the
disease is often confounded with leprosy.
There is an urgent need for a project to address Arsenic poisoning
in Bangladesh since the situation can be described as a "crisis"
due to devastating effects on human health and lives. Government of
Bangladesh (GoB) and donors have also shown willingness to support a
"fast track" project to address the crisis. The project will be
financed by several donor under an "umbrella" arrangement" and
will include both research and remedial activities.
Project Objectives: The project aims to reduce morbidity and
mortality in Bangladesh due to high levels of Arsenic in
groundwater. Specifically, the project will aim to (i) research and
establish the extent, nature and causes of Arsenic poisoning (ii)
implement rehabilitative sub projects related to Arsenic-free water
supply and treatment, health and awareness building, (iii) improve
technical capacity within governmental agencies to implement
activities aimed at addressing Arsenic contamination.
Description: The project is being developed on a "fast track"
basis in response to the urgent need to address the Arsenic crisis.
It will consist of an "umbrella" type arrangement to coordinate



support from several donors. The project will consist of Annual
Implementation Plans (AIPs) which will be approved on an annual
basis. However, projects can be submitted at any time during the
year based on the urgency of the situation. Progress on project
implementation will be reviewed on a yearly basis.
The project will have three components: (i) improved understanding
of the nature of Arsenic contamination in groundwater and the
technical options for addressing them;
(ii) investment in water treatment and supply infrastructure and
related activities; and (iii) strengthening of decentralized
technical capacity to execute rural/urban supply projects. Sub
projects will correspond to these three components and are expected
to include projects related to rural and urban water supply, water
treatment, health and diagnostic surveys, medical support to
affected people and studies on geology and geohydrology of the region.
Implementation: The Ministry of Local government and Rural
Development will be the main implementing authority. The Department
for Public Health Engineering (DPHE) under MLGRDC is primarily
responsible for water supply and sanitation. Other ministries which
will play an important role in project implementation include the
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Water
Resources. Implementing arrangements are expected to involve NGOs in
designing and executing sub projects related to community
participation and public awareness.
Cost and financing: Total project costs are estimated to be US 20-25
million. These will be finalized during subsequent missions.
Project sustainability: Sustainability will be enhanced through
involving a wide range of stakeholders in project development and
implementation. The project will ensure sustainability through
increasing public awareness and community participation, emphasizing
cost-recovery for water supply projects where possible, using
appropriate technology solutions which are within the reach of local
government to operate and maintain and improving technical capacity
to implement effective solutions to the problem.
Program and Poverty Category: The project focuses on water supply
and poverty.
Benefits: The project mainly benefits people who are exposed to
Arsenic poisoning. In particular, the project will benefit those
that are already displaying symptoms of arsenicosis and are
chronically ill due to arsenic poisoning. Since poor people are
severely effected by the arsenic crisis and are least able to cope
with the situation, the project will yield particular benefits for
them. Further, the project will help relieve the suffering of those
who have been subjected to social rejection since the symptoms of
arsenicosis are often confounded with leprosy.
Environmental Category: The project has been awarded category "B".
Only minor environmental impacts can be foreseen in the disposal of
potential Arsenic contaminated water and treatment plant sludge. The
- 2 -



project will include the institutional input required to monitor
environmental impacts, in case there is need for such support.
Contact Point:           Nadim Khouri/Guy Alaerts, Task managers
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: 202 458 1905/ 202 473 6429
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending December 12, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
This project has been awarded a category "B". The project
concentrates on developing safe methods of alternative water supply
to the villages facing Arsenic contamination. Methods for
alternative water supply and treatment of effected water will be
required to comply with the World Bank's environmental guidelines.
Schemes for alternative water supply are likely to be small scale
and where possible, the equipment used for this will be low cost and
of an appropriate technological standard. The effects of developing
alternative water supply will have beneficial effects on the quality
of water distributed and the corresponding effects on human health
will be highly favorable. Only minor environmental effects can be
foreseen with the disposal of Arsenic contaminated water or
treatment plant sludge. The Bank will fully support any need for
monitoring the environmental effects of water supply and treatment
schemes.
There are no resettlement issues. The project envisages strong
participation from local communities, NGOs, government agencies and
donors. No adverse environmental impacts are foreseen with this project.
- 4 -



