                           Document of
                        The World Bank




                                             Report No: ICR000028




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-31240 SWTZ-21082)




                              ON A

         CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 24.2 MILLION
                (US$ 44.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO

                          BANGLADESH

                               FOR

             ARSENIC MITIGATION WATER SUPPLY




                           June 10, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Environment and Water Resources Unit
SOUTH ASIA REGION

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         Exchange rate effective: Average during project duration

                        Currency unit = Taka (Tk)
                            Tk 1.00 = US$ 0.016
                            US$ 1.00 = Tk 59.1

                 FISCAL YEAR January 1 ­ December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL     adaptable program loan

BAEC    Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission

BAMWSP  Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project

BWSPP   Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project

DANIDA  Danish International Development Agency

DFID    Department for International Development (UK)

DPHE    Department of Public Health Engineering

GPS     global positioning system

IAEA    International Atomic Energy Agency

ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report

ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report

MoU     memorandum of understanding

NAMIC   National Arsenic Mitigation Information Center

NWSSIC  National Water Supply and Sanitation Information Center

PDO     project development objective

PMU     Project Management Unit

SDC     Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation

SIL     specific investment loan

UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund

WAMWUG  ward arsenic mitigation water user group

WSP     Water and Sanitation Program

     Vice President: Praful Patel
   Country Director: Xian Zhu
     Sector Director: Constance Bernard
Project Team Leader: Karin Erika Kemper
  ICR Team Leader: Karin Erika Kemper

                              People's Republic of Bangladesh

                        Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project




                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information....................................................................................... i
   B. Key Dates................................................................................................ i
   C. Ratings Summary....................................................................................... i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes.............................................................................. ii
   E. Bank Staff................................................................................................ ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis...........................................................................iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs............................................................vi
   H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................vi
   I. Disbursement Graph....................................................................................vii

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 20
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 21
  6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 27
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Assessment Results .................................................................. 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 43
  Annex 7. Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................................ 46
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 60
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 61
  Maps...............................................................................................62
  Arsenic Contamination in Bangladesh
  Upazila Production Wells Screened by Different Stakeholders Since 1998
  Upazila Production Wells Screened by BAMWSP
  BAMSWP Mitigation Activities by Project Phase

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Arsenic Mitigation
Country:                Bangladesh            Project Name:
                                                                     Water Supply
                                                                     IDA-31240,SWTZ-
Project ID:             P050745               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     21082
ICR Date:               06/06/2007            ICR Type:              Intensive Learning ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              GOB
Original Total
                        XDR 24.2M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 16.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Department of Public Health Engineering
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/20/1997    Effectiveness:       02/20/1999         02/20/1999
Appraisal:             12/05/1997    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/27/1998    Mid-term Review:                        03/27/2001
                                     Closing:             09/30/2002         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of           Moderately
                          Yes
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA): Unsatisfactory
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               28                 15
Health                                                          20                 15
Other social services                                           20
Sanitation                                                       8                  5
Sub-national government administration                                             25
Water supply                                                    24                 40


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                           Primary          Secondary
Environmental policies and institutions                        Primary          Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                             Primary           Primary
Pollution management and environmental health                  Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                              Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Xian Zhu                          Pierre M. Landell-Mills
Sector Director:          Constance Bernard                 Ridwan Ali
Project Team Leader:      Karin Erika Kemper                Nadim Khouri
ICR Team Leader:          Karin Erika Kemper
ICR Primary Author:       A. D. C. Godavitarne




                                              ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Development Objective of the BAMWSP is to reduce mortality and morbidity in
rural and urban populations caused by arsenic contamination of groundwater using
sustainable water supply, health, and water management strategies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally           Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from      Revised            Achieved at
                                                approval         Target          Completion or
                                              documents)         Values           Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Coverage of sustainable safe water supply increased
                                                                              (a) Screening done
                                                                              in about 3.04 m
                                                                              wells in 190

                                           Appropriate on-                    Upazilas and 390

                Absence of ready-made, site mitigation                        pdctn. wells in 100
                                                                              Pourashavas.
Value           straightforward solutions. strategies                         (b) Mitigation
quantitative or Extent of problem not      developed and                      programs in 6
Qualitative)    known; hence no solution implemented for
                was foreseen at appraisal hotspot areas (both                 Upazilas (Phase 1),

                                           rural and urban).                  35 Upazilas (Phase

                                           Not defined                        2) and 17 Upazilas
                                                                              (Phase 3); 1 urban
                                                                              Pourashava; and
                                                                              one rural piped
                                                                              water supply
Date achieved 02/20/1999                   06/30/2006                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Appropriate mitigation strategies developed and implemented
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Quantity of arsenic ingested by most of the population at risk is significantly
                reduced
                                                                              (a) Water sources
                                                                              of about 50 m.
                                                                              people screened

Value           35 million people          Quantity of arsenic                and marked as

quantitative or exposed to unsafe levels,  ingested by                        (un)safe to

Qualitative)    85 million at risk.        population is                      incentivize switch
                                           reduced                            to different options;
                                                                              (b) about 95% of
                                                                              screened popn.
                                                                              aware of unsafe



                                                iii

                                                                               sources/health
                                                                               problems(c)
                                                                               mitigation options
                                                                               covering 2 - 2.5 m.
                                                                               people
Date achieved 02/20/1999                   06/30/2006                          01/31/2003
Comments        With acquired knowledge, unsafe wells painted, and availability of arsenic-safe
(incl. %        water sources, most people in project areas use arsenic-safe sources for drinking.
achievement)    All achieved during 2002/2003
Indicator 3 :   Increased percentage of arsenicosis patients treated in project areas
                                                                               (a) About 29,500
                                           Key treatment is                    people affected by
                                           less intake of                      arsenic-related
                Number of arsenicosis      arsenic. Therefore                  disease identified;
Value           patients unknown and       provision of                        (b) 2,300 doctors &
quantitative or number of treated          arsenic-safe                        12,599 health
Qualitative)    arsenicosis patients       sources is                          workers trained;
                unknown                    essential. - No                     (c) arsenic-safe
                                           specific target                     water provided to
                                           value defined.                      an estimated 2 - 2.5
                                                                               million people
Date achieved 02/20/1999                   06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Identification of patients & training of doctors /health workers achieved by 2003.

achievement)    All others by project closure.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Improved knowledge of extent and origin of arsenic contamination
                                                                               (a) Data from 190
                                                                               Upazilas screened,
                                                                               including
                Extent of problem and                                          household data in
                causes initially unclear.                                      NAMIC database;
                Results by 2001 showed                                         (b) water quality
Value           worse situation than                                           samples from 2,265
(quantitative   initially expected with 54                                     deep tubewells
or Qualitative) out of 64 districts with                                       constructed and
                confirmed arsenic                                              GPS location of ~
                contamination (270                                             half of all new deep
                Upazilas affected)                                             tubewells; (c)
                                                                               isotope analysis
                                                                               conducted in
                                                                               selected locations.
Date achieved 02/20/1999                                                       06/30/2006



                                                 iv

Comments       Results from screening in 2001 indicated a situation worse than originally

(incl. %       thought w/ 54 out of 64 districts (covering 270 Upazilas) with confirmed arsenic

achievement)   contamination; 29% of shallow TWs contaminated;14 out of 100 Pourashavas
               contaminated
Indicator 2 :  Arsenic-safe drinking water in 4,000 villages covered by the project
                                                                               (a) Covered: 122
                                                                               villages in Phase 1;
                                                                               1,026 villages in

                                           Preliminary target                  Phase 2; and 660

Value          Not measured. High          of 4,000 villages                   villages in Phase 3

(quantitative  levels of arsenic in        w/ new arsenic-                     (b) 9,272 deep

or Qualitative)drinking water in hotspot                                       tubewells, 300 rain
               villages                    safe drinking
                                           water sources                       water harvesting
                                                                               systems & 393 dug
                                                                               wells; 1 piped water
                                                                               supply system

Date achieved 02/20/1999                   06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
Comments       Coverage of 4,000 villages was set as a target when a programmatic intervention
(incl. %       was being considered. However, the coverage achieved was about 50% of the
achievement)   target villages with arsenic-safe water with a better distribution density of wells
Indicator 3 :  Implementation capacity strengthened
                                                                               (a) Local
                                                                               stakeholder capcty.
                                                                               increased through

                                           Increased capacity                  4,331 community
                                                                               actn. plans and 894
               Low capacity of             of communities,
                                           local and central                   ward actn. plans;

Value          communities, local and      government NGOs                     (b) capcty. of Union

(quantitative  central government in       and private sector                  Parishads

or Qualitative)participatory planning                                          strengthened; (c)
               and design and in O&M       in participatory                    DPHE implmntn.
               of water supply systems     planning and in
                                           O&M of water                        capcty. enhanced;

                                           supply systems                      (d) doctors/health
                                                                               workers trained in
                                                                               229 Upazilas;
                                                                               S.Comments for
                                                                               more
Date achieved 02/20/1999                   06/30/2006                          06/30/2006
               Continued...:

Comments       e) tariff reform in 1 urban water supply & a new type of water supply system; (f)

(incl. %       public-private partnership for rural piped water supply forrmed.

achievement)   Final outputs were possible only thru strengthened capcty. of communities &
               local govmnt.




                                                v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                              Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP           Disbursements
                                                           (USD millions)
 1    11/20/1998        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.00
 2    04/12/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.97
 3    05/07/1999        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               0.99
 4    12/02/1999        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             1.38
 5    06/14/2000        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             1.81
 6    12/14/2000        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             2.11
 7    06/14/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               3.00
 8    12/12/2001        Satisfactory      Satisfactory               5.44
 9    06/28/2002        Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             6.38
10    12/30/2002       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             7.13
11    06/30/2003       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory             9.45
12    12/21/2003       Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory           11.29
13    05/06/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             13.80
14    10/20/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             15.97
15    12/24/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             15.97
16    05/24/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             17.68
17    10/22/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             18.29
18    05/05/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             21.69
19    06/30/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory             22.84



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g. PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

In 1993, the Government of Bangladesh became aware that there was a problem of high
concentrations of arsenic in thousands of wells used for drinking water across more than
half of the country's 64 districts.1 The extent of the problem and its potential impact on
health were not known, but it was estimated that millions of people depending on shallow
tubewells were threatened by death and illness resulting from ingestion of arsenic.2 A
series of localized and isolated field tests carried out with donor assistance during 1995­
1999 revealed the possible extent of the problem, and a nationwide study by the British
Geological Survey of around 3,500 water sources indicated that nearly 27 percent of
shallow tubewells and about 35 million people were likely to be affected by arsenic,
which occurs naturally in groundwater in certain geological strata.

At that time, there was little scientific knowledge about how, why, or where arsenic
occurred in drinking water sources. Doctors and health workers did not have much
knowledge of the epidemiology, symptoms, or treatment methods, nor were there any
records of the number of patients suffering from arsenic-related illnesses. This new
development also risked rolling back the significant progress made over two decades in
both the provision of safe drinking water under the shallow tubewell program and the
complementary improved sanitation in the country, which had contributed to a reduction
in mortality and morbidity, especially among children. Arsenic contamination of the main
source of drinking water emerged as a national crisis, and action was urgently required.
The Government of Bangladesh sought international assistance to address this emerging
crisis. These conditions provided the rationale for the World Bank and other donors to
assist Bangladesh in its efforts to tackle the arsenic problem in a coordinated manner.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
(as approved)

The project development objective (PDO) was to reduce morbidity and mortality in both
the rural and urban population caused by arsenic contamination of Bangladesh's
groundwater within sustainable water supply, health, and water management strategies.

Quantitative key performance indicators were not specified in the project appraisal
document (PAD). The requirement of a results framework did not exist at the time the
project was processed. However, the project design summary specified the following
indicators: (a) quantity of arsenic ingested by most of the population at risk significantly




1The Bangladesh national standard for maximum permissible concentration of arsenic in drinking water is
  50 micrograms per liter.

2Chronic arsenic poisoning from drinking water is termed "arsenicosis".




                                                    1

reduced; (b) coverage of sustainable safe water supply increased; and (c) percentage of
treated arsenicosis patients in project areas increased.


1.3 Revised PDO (As Approved by Original Approving Authority) and Key
Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

Original Beneficiaries

Project beneficiaries were (a) communities, in 4,000 affected villages, and urban and
peri-urban poor affected by arsenic poisoning who would receive arsenic-safe water; (b)
arsenicosis patients who would receive advice and treatment from medical authorities; (c)
rural and urban dwellers who would be informed on arsenic-related issues, and receive
support for capacity building efforts directed at the formal and non-formal sectors, and
from increased participation of the private sector in water supply service provision; (d)
communities and local governments, which would be empowered with responsibilities for
planning, construction, and maintenance of rural water supplies through a participatory,
demand-driven, and cost-sharing approach; (e) the Government of Bangladesh and the
Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE), which would benefit from a
comprehensive database acquired through the project, providing a framework for future
policy decisions; and (f) scientists and researchers, who would have access to the
comprehensive national database containing information on the spatial distribution of
arsenic occurrence, wells with arsenic contamination, new arsenic-safe tubewells
installed under the project, including their water quality and global positioning system
(GPS) coordinates, household data, and hydrogeological information.

Revised Beneficiaries

Following adjustment of the 4,000 village target, project benefits accrued to between 2
and 2.5 million people through implementation of 9,977 mitigation options in 1,800
villages, and in one pourashava, which would not have been possible if the 4,000 village
target had been pursued. Other beneficiaries remained unchanged.

Co contributors to the achievement of some of the above benefits were a number of
donors, who undertook numerous field tests; the British Geological Survey, which carried
out a nationwide well screening program before the start of the project; and the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), which provided co-financing for
technical assistance support. These inputs contributed to formulation of the strategy to
address the problem.




                                                 2

1.5 Original Components
(as approved)

Project components are summarized below. The PAD provides a detailed component
description.

On-site mitigation (US$26.1 million): (a) Emergency mitigation relief to villages
affected by high concentrations of arsenic in drinking water; (b) rural water supply using
the community-based participatory approach with cost sharing and responsibility for
maintenance of assets; (c) capacity building of communities, assisted by support
organizations, to plan and implement water supply and sanitation schemes in about 4,000
villages; (d) appropriate intervention strategies for the 14 priority pourashavas following
analysis of 100 pourashavas; and (e) health interventions comprising limited training of
doctors and health workers.

Improved understanding of the arsenic problem (US$3.8 million): (a) Development
of baseline data on arsenic contamination and water quality monitoring; (b) establishment
of the National Arsenic Mitigation Information Center (NAMIC) with a comprehensive
database; (c) establishment of the Technology Assistance Group; (d) Setting up a
laboratory calibration and verification system to ensure analytical quality control; and (e)
studies and research on the arsenic problem, and coordination with leading research
organizations.

Strengthening of implementation capacity (US$14.50 million): (a) Operating costs and
strengthening of zonal laboratories; (b) technical assistance for NAMIC and zonal
laboratories; and (c) capacity building of all partners, monitoring and health sector
development.

1.6 Revised Components

Not applicable.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

The design of the project permitted flexibility to make changes in accordance with new
knowledge emerging with regard to arsenic, both generated by the project and by the
many other stakeholders. Changes were made during implementation to refine the
components, improve efficiency of implementation, and facilitate achievement of
outcomes. Changes were approved by sector or regional management, as needed, and by
the Government of Bangladesh through requisite changes in the project proforma. The
significant changes were:

(a) The original Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP)
allocation for health activities was shifted, in 2001, to a proposed Arsenic Public Health
Project, which was already included in the IDA pipeline. Thus, health activities under
BAMWSP were not further developed. In the end, however, the proposed new project did
not materialize.

(b) As surface water was recommended as the sole arsenic-safe source in the National
Arsenic Mitigation Policy, implementation of the deep tubewell option was permitted, as



                                               3

an exception, only in coastal areas; project interventions in other areas included dug
wells, pond sand filters, and rainwater harvesting systems.

(c) Project intervention criteria were revised as follows: (i) emergency response for
villages where more than 80 percent of wells were above the Bangladesh arsenic standard
of 50 micrograms per liter (31 upazilas); (ii) phase 1: villages with more than 40 percent
of wells contaminated above the Bangladesh standard (6 upazilas); (iii) phase 2: unions
with more than 40 percent of wells contaminated (35 upazilas); and (iv) phase 3: unions
with more than 60 percent of wells contaminated (17 upazilas).

(d) The spatial distribution of deep tubewells was changed from one deep tubewell for
100 families, to one deep tubewell for 50 families, and finally, to one deep tubewell for
10 to 15 families, responding to demands from communities rather than pursuing the
original supply-driven goal to cover 4,000 villages. Cost sharing was also reduced from
the original 20­40 percent to 10 percent for consistency with other Government of
Bangladesh-financed and donor programs.

(e) The approach of preparing a community-based action plan per option was changed to
the setting up of ward arsenic mitigation water user groups (WAMWUGs) covering many
options, to expand the coverage and to reduce the administrative burden on both the
Project Management Unit (PMU) and communities. In creating the WAMWUGs, the
project also followed the guidance of the new National Arsenic Mitigation Policy of
2004.

(f) In order to increase focus on linkage between groundwater resources and arsenic
mitigation options, the project introduced a deep well drilling program (up to 600 meters
in depth) to study hydrogeology and water quality in aquifers, including isotope analysis,
development of a water quality monitoring protocol, and building a database on wells
drilled under the project to provide a basis for aquifer mapping. Introduction of isotope
analysis in deep aquifers was a result of collaboration between the project, the
Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission, and the International Atomic Energy Authority.

(g) The PMU was incorporated into the DPHE, in 2003, in order to accelerate project
implementation and enhance DPHE ownership of the project.

(h) The grant closing date was extended four times, initially in 2002, and three more
times, after management changes and improved implementation progress.

(i) Grant cancellation occurred twice: in 2002, an amount of SDR 3.31 million (US$4.967
million3) was cancelled due to the slow progress of mitigation activities; and an amount
of US$6.48 million of the unutilized credit balance was canceled at project closure.
Additionally, the SDC trust fund closed in 2005 due to extremely low disbursement (see
section 7(b)).




3Using current exchange rate of SDR 1.5/US$. Source: Client Connection.




                                                 4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Lessons learned from past projects in Bangladesh included the need to reduce the lengthy
approval and funds release procedures for emergency projects; devolve implementation
responsibility to the field to expedite implementation; and link institutional support needs
to institutional objectives, including specific components, to have any significant impact.

Project Preparation

After considering various lending instruments, including an emergency investment loan,
the specific investment loan (SIL) was adopted. The Bank made a conscious decision to
embark on the project without the traditional full preparation, but using a flexible
approach because of the need for a quick response; the many uncertainties and the limited
knowledge of the problem; the lack of prior experience of a similar project; the
unavailability of proven test kits and technologies; and the lack of knowledge and
strategy for scaling up well screening and mitigation. It incorporated a learning-by-doing
approach based on existing technologies, evolving approaches, changing the mindset and
building the capacity of centralized agencies, and using a participatory delivery
mechanism with cost sharing, in close collaboration with other donors. The project
preparation went from concept to appraisal in a mere three and a half months, comparable
to the processing of emergency operations. It might have been more appropriate for this
intervention to follow emergency investment procedures.

Design

The project target was to provide arsenic-safe water in 4,000 villages out of an estimated
43,000 villages affected. This was the same target set when the adaptable program loan
(APL) instrument was being considered, but was not revised when the SIL was adopted.
The design and delivery modality were to be reviewed and revised on an annual basis,
learning from the previous year's experience, incorporating a community-based
participatory approach with the local government union parishad chairperson as the key
motivator. The project intervention criterion was the percentage of wells in a village that
were contaminated by more than the Bangladesh standard of 50 micrograms per liter.
This was adopted because arsenic test kits only show if water is above or below the
threshold. There was not sufficient capacity in the country to test the millions of
tubewells with more sophisticated laboratory procedures. The beneficiary assessment
observed that intervention on this basis had little relation to arsenic concentration levels,
population density, or the number of arsenicosis patients. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report (ICR) review believes that given the reality of millions of
contaminated wells and the need to work with communities and their leaders in order to
ensure a demand-based approach for future sustainability, the criteria adopted in the
project contributed to enhancing the outcome.

The key elements of project design included (a) screening of about 3.04 million shallow
tubewells and pourashava production wells to concretely establish spatial arsenic


                                                5

contamination and level of arsenic concentration, and to identify unsafe wells; (b)
conducting a mass awareness raising campaign to inform the population about the effects
of arsenic ingestion, introducing mitigation options, a delivery approach, and criteria and
procedures for participation; (c) development of affordable and appropriate mitigation
options for non-piped water supply, and testing, validation, and certification; (d) a
decentralized and fully participatory implementation modality involving communities
and local governments, with communities sharing 20­40 percent of costs and being
responsible for construction; (e) use of support organizations (mostly NGOs) contracted
and trained under the project, to form community-based organizations, inform them about
arsenic issues and mitigation options, train them to screen and field-test water sources,
help prepare community action plans, and conclude memoranda of understanding (MoUs)
with the PMU ; and (f) setting up a comprehensive database under NAMIC, comprising
information on spatial distribution of arsenic contamination, including level of arsenic
concentration; patient information; household data; details of mitigation options
implemented; water quality; and hydrogeological data from groundwater investigations.

An important design feature was the new project management model of a semi-
independent PMU parallel to the DPHE, with a direct link and reporting to the Ministry
of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. Justifiably, the project
management model intended to overcome many of the problems encountered in previous
Bank-financed operations with the DPHE. However, the arrangement did not provide the
PMU with the needed independence because it was still subject to all DPHE
administrative procedures and approvals, and relied on management and field staff to
perform its functions. This decision had a significant adverse impact on project
implementation.

There was no project intervention for the treatment of arsenicosis patients even though
the specific intent was stated as a performance indicator of the project development
objective. Though originally included in the project, healthcare activities were taken out
to be addressed under an arsenic health project, which was to be prepared concurrently
with BAMWSP. In the end, that project did not materialize. While other project
interventions were designed to have a health impact, for instance the provision of arsenic-
safe water and the massive training of health workers, the specific linkage to treatment
was thus not made. Under the circumstances, it would have been more proper to revise
the performance indicator for the project development objective.

Risks and Mitigation Identified

The project risks that were analyzed, and mitigation actions taken on the main risks, were
as follows:

(a) The risk of people continuing to drink water from arsenic-contaminated wells was
mitigated by the plan to identify unsafe wells and paint the handpump spouts red.

(b) The risk of the use of unsafe surface water was to be mitigated through development
of alternative treatment and mitigation solutions.

(c) The expected weak organizational capacity of communities was to be enhanced
through the use of project-contracted support organizations.



                                              6

(d) The risk of slow implementation due to the need to deal with a large number of
entities was mitigated through adoption of a decentralized participatory approach
involving local governments and complemented by support organizations and
community-based organizations and, in the last phase, ward-level user groups.

The identified risks were adequately addressed. The risk inherent in setting up a semi-
independent PMU under the administrative control of the DPHE was not recognized by
the Bank. This risk should have been obvious, and appropriate mitigation actions in the
form of clear operating procedures should have been formulated if this model was to
succeed.

Adequacy of Participatory Processes

The participatory process adopted under the implementation modality was highly
satisfactory, as it fully involved communities and local governments. Decisions on
mitigation options, site location of facilities, and construction organization were made
entirely by community-based organizations with the union parishad chairperson playing a
key role, thus empowering local government institutions. This was achieved with the
assistance from support organizations (usually NGOs) contracted by the project, and
regional PMU and DPHE field engineers. Communities provided valuable inputs and
contributed to capital costs (except in the emergency phase), procured material, organized
contractors to construct the facilities, supervised the work, and undertook maintenance of
completed assets. Following well screening, women were informed of the unsafe wells so
that they may be avoided. The beneficiary survey indicates, however, that even though
participation of women was built into the project design, they did not adequately
participate in decisions on well locations; and people used arsenic-safe water for
drinking, while some continued to use surface water for cooking.

The uneven distribution of wells in some communities may be due to participation not
being equally comprehensive in all locations, or because some people were able to
influence decisions regarding the siting of wells. Though not perfect, the participatory
process has worked satisfactorily. Community contributions have not always been
uniform; more affluent people have contributed more to compensate for the smaller
contributions from poor households. Thus frequent location of facilities close to homes of
affluent families has occurred. The factors that contributed to this situation included the
difficulties of mobilizing timely contributions from all community members; the ability
of larger contributors to influence location of facilities; the accelerated implementation
that occurred in the last phase immediately prior to project closure; and the difficulty of
closely monitoring the participatory process in a project of this scale. In spite of this,
every family in project areas had access to arsenic-safe water. The beneficiary survey
states that the project provided more safe options to higher-income households. It is
entirely possible that those contributing more than their share were able to influence the
location of wells; however, there is no evidence to support the position that the project
promoted this outcome.




                                                7

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, midterm review, project at risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The required project start-up and initial activities, especially establishment and staffing of
the PMU, well screening, procurement of consultant services and water quality test kits,
progressed extremely slowly over the first 2½ years. Recruitment of the international
consultant, who had a significant role to support the PMU in detailed design,
implementation, and monitoring, was started, but was finally abandoned prior to
negotiating a contract. This decision of the Government of Bangladesh not to provide this
key international input caused a major setback at the outset.

The selected project management model had a significant impact on the operation of the
PMU, contributed to delays in project implementation, and turned out to be a major
bottleneck. The project had six project directors, all from the DPHE, and the PMU was
subject to all approval procedures of the DPHE. A number of directors did not share the
project concept, were unable to break away from the working practices of the DPHE, or
were not sufficiently motivated to move the project forward. Over a 2½-year period
(December 1999 to December 2000; June 2002 to December 2003), the project was rated
"unsatisfactory" for implementation. In 2003, the Bank supported the reconstitution of
the PMU as part of the DPHE. Following that change, and coinciding with the
commencement of new proactive management that took decisive actions, improved
communications with field operations, and, at times, bypassed bureaucratic procedures,
there was significant acceleration of the pace of implementation. The Bank responded
with four extensions of the grant closing date as the prospects for successful completion
of the project improved significantly. Despite the initial poor performance, Bank
management waited over four years to take action. With hindsight, it may be too hasty to
conclude which model stood the better chance of success or whether proactive project
management would have assured success, based on the implementation progress of the
follow-on project, the Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project (BWSPP), which has
been under full DPHE management from the outset. This project is in the same position
in which BAMWSP was in its early years, with extremely slow progress made thus far,
and only US$1 million of the credit disbursed after nearly three years.

The approach of using community-based organizations gained the trust and confidence of
communities, as they were able to make decisions, make their contributions, and have
services delivered in about five months. It also resulted in a flurry of activity during the
last six months of the project as communities tried desperately to participate in the
program. However, monitoring results indicated that the approach using community-
based organizations to cover the 4,000 villages resulted in an installation ratio of one safe
source for 50 to 100 households, which was deemed inadequate to prevent many people
from reverting to contaminated sources due to the convenience factor associated with
travel distance. It also became apparent that, in the remaining project time, it was
unrealistic to cover 4,000 villages using the community-based organization modality. The
high demand for one deep tubewell for 10 to 15 households therefore led to the formation
of ward arsenic mitigation water users groups (WAMWUGs). This modified approach
was more effective, reduced the burden of dealing with a large number of community-




                                               8

based organizations, and also accelerated implementation significantly, resulting in the
completion of nearly 10,000 options by the end of the project.

A water quality testing and monitoring protocol, including arsenic, iron, chloride, and
other parameters, was developed in the last two years of the project to ensure that safe
water was available in project areas. In addition, guidelines were developed for site
selection, drilling, and testing of arsenic-safe wells in the deep aquifer. The project also
supported the use of isotopes for characterizing and mapping the origin and quality of the
arsenic-safe deep groundwater. This took place in collaboration with the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the Bangladesh Atomic Energy Commission
(BAEC). Furthermore, a pilot project to test the feasibility of surface water infiltration
schemes as a potential source of arsenic-free river water was implemented in one
pourashava.

The screening of shallow household tubewells in urban pourashavas was abandoned
because there was little support from the then project management, for several reasons:
the scope of the task was much larger than estimated; the PMU lacked the capacity to
undertake nationwide urban water source screening within the original credit closing
date; counterpart funds were limited; and the urban unit of the PMU was less organized
and resourced. Consequently, an undetermined number of people using shallow tubewells
in pourashavas continue to be at risk. The follow-up BWSPP addresses 5 of the 14
pourashavas found to be arsenic-contaminated and other donors are in discussions with
the Government of Bangladesh for support to additional pourashava water supply
systems.

The main findings of the Quality of Supervision Assessment carried out in 2000 are
described in Annex 4. This assessment was critical of the Bank's supervision strategy, the
project management model adopted, and the lack of Bank management response for
several years, despite all the indications that the project was progressing extremely
poorly.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization

Although planned, formal independent monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation was not done because the then project management was not convinced of
its utility. Instead, the PMU and task team conducted their own monitoring and
evaluation on an ongoing basis. Based on the number of changes in design and
implementation modality and the project's outcomes, this effort proved to be valuable. In
addition, the key activity of water quality monitoring in deep tubewells was carried out
under the auspices of NAMIC. The beneficiary survey also notes that monitoring and
evaluation of project achievements did not receive much attention from the PMU, and
that records were not maintained in a consistent manner.

The deep tubewells constructed are in operation, and are being used. In accordance with
the MoUs prepared under the community or ward action plans, the operation and
maintenance responsibility lies with the communities. Given the long experience with
shallow tubewells in the country, capacity exists within communities to manage this task
satisfactorily. The beneficiary survey observed that over 90 percent of the wells
constructed are in working order.



                                               9

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguard Compliance

The project triggered the Bank's safeguard policies, primarily on environmental
assessment, and the project was classified as Category B. Since communities themselves
arranged the necessary land for the facilities, involuntary resettlement policies were not
triggered.

Disposal of arsenic-rich water treatment sludge was not an issue because the project did
not include water treatment plants with arsenic removal. The impact of the arsenic-rich
media waste from the four prototype household chemical treatment options that were
under validation is considered insignificant due to the small number of prototypes and
quantities of residue involved.

Evidence from the field had indicated that routine end-of-the tap (spout) water quality
monitoring was insufficient to provide assurance that people were ingesting arsenic-safe
and bacteriologically safe water. This concern prompted the development of a water
quality testing and monitoring protocol during the last two years of the project, to ensure
that arsenic-safe water was available in a sustainable manner in the mitigation options
constructed. At project closure, due to the acceleration of the project in its final years,
there was a backlog of 7,710 deep tubewells (of a total of 9,272 deep tubewells) for
which water quality had not been tested or GPS coordinates recorded. Completion of
testing and recording of GPS coordinates for the remaining deep tubewells has been
formally included under the follow-on BWSPP.

Based on information from the well-screening database, arsenic-safe locations were
determined and made known to communities. For deep household tubewells and dug
wells, there was no formal requirement to include an environmental screening data sheet
along with the community action plans and ward action plans submitted to the PMU for
appraisal. In the case of the larger piped water supply projects, a full environmental
screening procedure was developed and applied. Additionally, health messages were
confined to water issues only.

The project provided only arsenic-safe water supply; no sanitation was provided although
the intent was stated in the PAD. There was no requirement to include a statement on
sanitation in the community action plans and ward action plans submitted for appraisal by
the PMU.

Fiduciary Compliance

Financial management. For a substantial period of the project, financial management
inputs in the PMU were insufficient due to frequent turnover of the financial management
specialist and accounts manager. The computerized accounting system envisaged in the
project was not in place. Quarterly project monitoring reports were prepared irregularly in
the initial years, but later improved in accuracy and timely submission. Project
monitoring reports frequently used information that was not derived from the general
accounting system, thus making them not entirely reliable. Some component expenditures




                                                10

were estimates rather than actuals, rendering the comparison with original component
allocation relatively weak.

The Financial Management Unit developed procedures for accounting and financial
reporting at community level, but monitoring of compliance was inadequate. Throughout
the project, the Financial Management Unit had an experienced and knowledgeable staff
to deal with the disbursements, yet submission of replenishment claims was rarely done
at monthly intervals.

At credit closure, there were 43 outstanding audit observations. They related largely to
form, rather than substantive irregularities. Despite the preparation of a dated action plan
and agreement to assign a dedicated staff to pursue settlement of the audit observations,
target dates were missed for many actions, which could have been easily resolved.

Procurement. Findings on procurement administration by the PMU, based on post
reviews conducted on a number of contracts, were: (a) in general, the procurement
capacity of the project staff for the types of contracts processed was weak; (b) the
frequent turnover of procurement staff was reflected in variations in the quality of
procurement processing; (c) documentation was found to be in a poor state, with files not
being maintained satisfactorily in some cases; (d) the project generally complied with
agreed provisions; and (e) processing time was generally satisfactory. The ICR review
notes that the simplified procurement procedures adopted for community contracting
worked well. However, delays in procurement actions and decisions occurred regularly
when DPHE or ministry approvals were required.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, operation and maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

In accordance with the MoUs between the communities and the project, operation and
maintenance of the rural mitigation options are the responsibility of communities. The
technologies introduced are well within the capacity of the communities to maintain. The
country has a well-established tradition of individuals and communities maintaining
nearly 9 million shallow tubewells on their own.

The follow-on operation ­ the BWSPP ­ incorporated all the lessons learned from
BAMWSP. The PMU, now part of the formal structure of the DPHE, continues to
mainstream BAMWSP experiences. The delivery modalities and cost sharing
arrangements have also been incorporated into the BWSPP. The works of BAMWSP not
completed by project closure ­ about 600 ward action plans for which MoUs had been
signed, water quality testing of new deep tubewells, measurement of GPS coordinates of
the tubewells, building a GPS-based deep groundwater quality database, further testing of
surface water infiltration schemes, implementation of the 10 pilot rural piped water
supply projects, and follow-up to the completed pilot rural piped water supply project ­
have all been transferred to the BWSPP. Until the proposed National Water Supply and
Sanitation Information Center (NWSSIC) is established at the DPHE, the BWSPP has
agreed to support updating of NAMIC as an interim measure. The Government of
Bangladesh needs to fully operationalize the NWSSIC as soon as possible to sustain this
valuable resource.


                                               11

Four regional DPHE laboratories were upgraded and five new laboratories built with
modern equipment providing them with the capability to analyze up to 34 chemical
parameters. Due to inadequate provision of operating budget, equipment, spares, and
chemical supplies, the water quality testing facilities at the new and upgraded regional
laboratories were frequently interrupted. This was happening despite payments made
from project funds for all water quality tests, and repeated reminders from the task team.
Assurances should be sought from the Government of Bangladesh that adequate funding
will be provided for the continued operation of the upgraded laboratories, which will
play a key role in the prevention of arsenic ingestion by the vulnerable population.
It is recommended that the government continue with the program started under
BAMWSP by expanding the program to address the large number of villages that were
not covered under BAMWSP using the demand-driven participatory modality, and
addressing the pourashavas where incidence of high levels of arsenic contamination has
been reported.

3. Assessment of Outcomes4

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance of Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

More than 95 percent of the rural population depends on the widely used shallow
tubewells with handpumps constructed during the last four decades. The discovery of
arsenic in drinking water threatened to derail and diminish this significant achievement.
The project development objective (PDO) responded to the emerging crisis, which had
put a significant portion of the Bangladesh population at risk from arsenic-related
illnesses, resulting in increased morbidity and mortality. The PDO was also closely
linked to the National Water Supply and Sanitation Policy adopted in 1998, which,
among other things, aims to provide basic levels of (safe) water supply and sanitation
throughout the country. The project development objective was also consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy approved by the Bank's Board in March 1998. It had five
strategic priorities, four of which were supported either directly or indirectly through the
project, namely: (a) promoting faster and more equitable human development with
respect to education, health, nutrition, and population; (b) promoting a competitive
private sector as the engine of growth, and providing essential physical infrastructure; (c)
promoting better public sector management and improved public services for the private
sector and civil society; and (d) accelerating agricultural growth and rural development.




4The ICR assessments make use of the full spectrum of ratings now available. ISRs were constrained to
  use only "satisfactory" or "unsatisfactory" ratings.




                                                     12

Relevance of Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

Project design using the adaptive approach was highly appropriate to respond to the crisis
in an environment of little knowledge of the spatial distribution of arsenic contamination,
and limited knowledge on feasible mitigation solutions.

The community-based, demand-driven participatory approach with community cost
sharing, and a substantive role for local governments (union parishads) in the planning,
implementation, and management of water supply schemes, was successful. By
continuing to provide the union parishads with an important decisionmaking role, the
project supported the governance and decentralization objectives of the Government of
Bangladesh.

The use of support organizations to mobilize and build capacity in communities was an
important contribution to successful delivery of outputs. Moving from the community-
based organizations to the ward-level water user groups facilitated the scaling up of the
program to reach the 2 million to 2.5 million people that benefited from arsenic-safe
options. The delivery modality was singularly successful in the project's ability to reach
the large number of people that benefited from arsenic-safe water at costs affordable by
communities. This would not have been possible through a supply-driven approach.
Communities gained confidence in and came to trust the delivery modality, which
assured delivery of outputs within a short time, and led to the unsatisfied demands at
project closure. The beneficiary assessment notes the need for longer involvement of
support organizations beyond arsenic mitigation, to support community development.
Had support organizations spent more time in the communities, they could have provided
inputs to improve maintenance arrangements through contributions to bank accounts for
operation and maintenance and a sinking fund for asset replacement, as described in the
PAD.

The criterion for intervention based on the percentage of wells contaminated in a village
was a sound basis to address the problem in villages with a large population at risk. The
widely used deep tubewell option (80 percent of all options), implemented through
communities, was able to deliver affordable arsenic-safe water options at the community
level, and was the most popular option. This option was permitted only as an exception in
coastal areas under a rigorous protocol to protect deep aquifers from infiltration and
contamination by arsenic, under the National Arsenic Mitigation Policy, reformulated in
2004, which recommended surface water as the primary source for arsenic mitigation.
This effectively foreclosed use of the less costly option of tubewells as a safe source for
small communities, leaving the less popular dug wells, rainwater harvesting, and pond
sand filters as options for other areas. Many dug wells were abandoned, and some
communities installed new shallow wells (with uncertain arsenic levels) or reverted to
surface water from ponds (where water quality is suspect). The few pond sand filters
were not popular due to the high maintenance required. Implementation experience
confirms that user preference is influenced significantly by the convenience factor
(walking distance), the most favored being handpumps (mostly shallow with low
maintenance needs) serving on average two to three households. Failure to achieve a




                                             13

similar service level when offering mitigation options may cause households to return to
unsafe yet convenient water sources.

Project design included an important initiative to advance knowledge of arsenic in
drinking water. In addition to support for research activities, the project included the
creation of the National Arsenic Mitigation Information Center (NAMIC), and
development of a comprehensive database. The database contains data on the national
well screening, water quality in shallow wells and new deep tubewells installed under the
project (including their GPS coordinates), household data, and hydrogeological data from
the deep well drilling and aquifer studies (including isotope analysis and water quality
test results, which would provide a scientific basis for aquifer mapping). This is a
valuable resource for research, and for the Government of Bangladesh to review its
national arsenic mitigation policy and strategy.

In summary, the objectives, design, and implementation were consistent with the
Government of Bangladesh's key policies on water supply and sanitation and arsenic
mitigation, the later-issued Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of 2005, and also with the
Bank's new Country Assistance Strategy for 2006 to 2009, which is built on three pillars:
improving the investment climate, empowering the poor, and core governance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The achievement of the project development objectives against indicators defined at
project appraisal is illustrated below. Detailed outputs by component are described in
Annex 2.

Quantity of arsenic ingested by most of the population at risk is significantly
reduced. The following proxies illustrate that the population at risk reduced significantly
the ingestion of arsenic, although it was not possible to determine the actual reduction in
quantity of arsenic ingested by the population at risk: (a) identification of wells with
arsenic levels exceeding safe levels (with spouts painted red), signaling to people to avoid
water from those wells, following screening of over 3 million tubewells in 190 upazilas5
and production wells in 100 pourashavas; (b) construction of nearly 10,000 arsenic-safe
water options, including simple alternative surface water or rainwater mitigation options,
identification of groundwater aquifers with arsenic-safe water, piloting surface water
infiltration as an arsenic-safe water resource option for urban water supply systems, and
piloting a private sector-community partnership for piped water supply in a high-density
village; (c) wide dissemination of information about the health impacts of drinking




5Originally, the total number of upazilas screened by BAMWSP was 189. However, one of the upazilas ­
  Meherpur ­ was later divided into two upazilas by the Government of Bangladesh: Meherpur and
  Mujibnagar. Thus the number of screened upazilas is 190.




                                                    14

arsenic-contaminated water; and (d) upgrading of laboratories for water quality testing, as
well as developing a water quality testing and monitoring protocol, and the GPS-based
water quality testing of over 2,200 deep tubewells to evaluate the overall quality of the
deep groundwater.

Coverage of sustainable safe water supply increased. Between 2 and 2.5 million
people in project areas now have access to sustainable water supply through (a)
construction of about 10,000 technologically appropriate and affordable arsenic-safe
water points in rural areas, and surface water infiltration wells in one pourashava
covering a population of about 44,000; (b) construction of a much larger number of safe
water supply options and a significantly higher density of coverage than was originally
planned, though about half of the planned coverage of 4,000 villages was achieved; (c)
provision of rural mitigation options that owe their sustainability to several factors,
including use of a decentralized participatory approach with a key role for local
government and communities that have planned, organized, and supervised construction;
use of technologies that were not complex, were capable of construction by small
contractors, and were easily maintained by community artisans; and community
contribution of at least 10 percent of capital costs and assumption of responsibility for
operation and maintenance, consistent with the track record of communities and
individuals maintaining over 9 million shallow tubewells throughout the country.

Increased percentages of arsenicosis patients were treated in project areas. There is a
disconnect between this performance indicator of the PDO and project components. The
project included training for 2,300 doctors and 12,599 health workers on the
identification of symptoms and treatment options for arsenic-induced illnesses. The
provision of safe water supply itself is also part of treatment of arsenicosis. The health
messages provided through a mass information dissemination campaign advised the
population that drinking water with no arsenic and use of vitamin supplements to
strengthen the immune system are effective means to reverse early symptoms of arsenic-
related illnesses. Thus the health aspect of the overall PDO was addressed by the project.
However, the project had no specific intervention for the treatment of arsenicosis
patients. There are no data available to confirm that hospitals treated more arsenicosis
patients, or that hospitals were equipped with necessary medical supplies, or that any
special treatment camps were conducted based on the extensive training provided. This
was also shown in the beneficiary survey, which states that patients did not know where
to go to receive treatment.

Achievement of Intermediate Outcome Indicators

Achievement of intermediate outcome indicators, as tracked in the implementation status
and results reports (ISRs), is summarized below.

Improved knowledge of extent of arsenic contamination. The spatial distribution of
arsenic occurrence in the country has been established. The deep tubewell drilling
program, borehole lithographs, and water quality tests have established the existence of
arsenic-safe water in the aquifer below the clay layer at varying depths, which can be
tapped by community contractors experienced in drilling tubewells in alluvial soils.




                                              15

Mitigation options were studied and tested and the appropriate options were available for
selection by communities. Some chemical treatment options were under monitoring
through project closure. National and international specialist organizations and donors6
provided technical assistance for testing, monitoring, and validation of the mitigation
options.

The initiative to carry out a pilot project to test the feasibility of surface water infiltration
schemes as a potential source of arsenic-safe river water in one pourashava also enabled
the project to provide safe water to an urban population and to develop an alternative for
safe water supply to be applied in other settings in Bangladesh.

The project introduced the use of isotopes for characterizing and mapping the origin and
quality of the arsenic-safe deep groundwater, in collaboration with the IAEA and the
BAEC, which provided vital data for future water supply in the pourashava and
demonstrated the opportunities for this technology to inform the identification of arsenic-
safe water.

The publicly accessible database developed by NAMIC is a useful research and study
resource comprising information on the spatial distribution of arsenic, water quality test
results, GPS coordinates of deep tubewells constructed under the project, and
socioeconomic data of households. Hydrogeological information from the very deep
drilling (600 meters) carried out by the Geological Survey of Bangladesh, the Bangladesh
Water Development Board, and the isotope analysis have established the existence of
another arsenic-free deep aquifer that could be used as a future safe water resource.

The above activities have significantly helped to improve the understanding of the
occurrence and the spatial distribution of arsenic in groundwater. Uncertainties remain on
the source, mobilization, and transport of arsenic in groundwater. The monitoring carried
out so far is insufficient to understand the variations in arsenic levels in groundwater over
time. Further monitoring will continue under the BWSPP and by donors, who have
expressed interest in supporting detailed countrywide groundwater mapping.

Implementation capacity strengthened. The modality for implementation of mitigation
options was a decentralized, demand-driven, community-based approach closely linked to
the local governments (union parishads). Support organizations (mostly NGOs) were
contracted, trained, and deployed to communities to mobilize and form community-based
organizations, convey information on arsenic-related matters and mitigation options, and
assist communities to enter into contracts with the PMU to undertake the work
themselves.

A highly effective and successful model, trusted by communities, for delivery of safe
water to a large number of villages, with explicit cost sharing criteria, has evolved. Union
parishads and communities have been empowered to plan and construct facilities for safe
water through an approach that includes capital cost sharing and responsibility for


6The Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, the Ontario Center for Environmental
  Technology Assessment, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Danish International
  Development Agency (DANIDA), the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), and the
  Arsenic Policy Support Unit of DFID.




                                                  16

operation and maintenance. Through this modality, it has been possible to provide
arsenic-safe water to a large population. A community-level contracting industry capable
of drilling deep tubewells (in coastal areas) has also developed. A model for private
sector participation in rural piped water supply has been developed, and implemented in
one scheme. Through their involvement in the project, support organizations (mainly
NGOs) have been recognized as partners and facilitators for development work.

The capacity of the DPHE has been strengthened. A number of the key staff of the PMU,
including project directors, came from the DPHE. Despite the earlier setbacks, the
performance of the PMU showed significant improvement during the last three years
when it was formally incorporated into the DPHE structure. Thus the DPHE will be able
to replicate the BAMWSP approach in its future activities.

The ICR review concludes that project development objectives were substantially
achieved, except for treatment of arsenicosis patients, thus leading to a "Moderately
Satisfactory" rating.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net present value/economic rate of return, cost-effectiveness, e.g. unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and financial rate of return)

The project benefited between 2 million and 2.5 million people who received arsenic-safe
water. Potentially, another 40 million to 50 million people benefited from health
messages on the ingestion of arsenic, and the countrywide screening of wells, and clear
identification of unsafe wells.
A cost-benefit analysis was not done at appraisal. The primary aim of the project was to
provide safe water to people, focusing on minimum needs and health. During
implementation, project-established criteria and procedures ensured that least-cost
acceptable solutions were selected to meet the drinking and cooking requirements of the
population.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The PDO was highly relevant to the crisis at hand, except that there were no health
interventions for treatment of arsenicosis patients. Although the first step was taken and
training was provided to doctors and health workers, there is no evidence to conclude that
there was a sustained attempt to treat arsenicosis patients, notably because this
responsibility had been shifted to the planned project that would specifically address
arsenic and health issues under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.

(a) Through provision of nearly 10,000 safe water points, including 1,800 (of the planned
4,000) villages in 58 upazilas, and a water system in one pourashava, the number of
people ingesting arsenic-contaminated water has been substantially reduced.

(b) Project activities provided nearly 10,000 arsenic-safe water points serving between 2
million and 2.5 million people at risk in project areas.




                                               17

(c) Sustainable safe water supply was provided through the community-based approach
adopted, whereby communities shared costs and assumed responsibility for maintenance.

(d) Through the wide information campaign conducted by the project, between 40 million
and 50 million people were informed about the health impacts of arsenic ingestion.

(e) Through the comprehensive well screening and water quality testing program, the
extent of arsenic contamination in Bangladesh has been established and the understanding
of the arsenic problem has improved.

(f) The capacity of communities, local governments, and the private sector was
strengthened to screen, plan, implement, and maintain community-level infrastructure
with capital cost sharing.

Since neither BAMWSP nor other Government of Bangladesh or donor-financed projects
have as yet covered all arsenic-affected areas of Bangladesh, the task is not complete, as a
section of the population at risk continues to drink arsenic-contaminated water. The
follow-on project (BWSPP) addresses some of this population and aims at providing an
approach that will permit scaling up.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Cost sharing by communities made allowances for the poor, who contributed at least 1
percent of capital cost in cash or physical labor. In some communities, affluent families
contributed more than the 10 percent required. As a consequence, the poor were also less
able to fully participate in the decisionmaking process for locating the new tubewells.
The beneficiary survey also states that the poor had fewer opportunities to influence the
location of mitigation options. However, indications are that reduction of the well-to-
household ratio has increased the potential for the poor to have access to a safe source of
water, though they may have to walk longer distances for their water supply compared to
other income groups.

Equal participation of women in ward arsenic committees is specified in the National
Arsenic Mitigation Policy. Participation of women in the community-based organizations
occurred, as one of the two joint signatories for the community bank account was a
woman. However, their actual participation in decisionmaking was limited. The first
health messages on arsenic impacts were given to women as part of the well screening
process, establishing knowledge about not using water from wells painted red. In keeping
with past practices, women were frequently assigned the role of caretakers of wells.

With regard to social development, the project has contributed to bringing
decisionmaking power to the village, ward, and union levels. This has led to significant
empowerment of local-level government institutions.




                                               18

Institutional Change and Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The project has successfully demonstrated the feasibility of the decentralized, demand-
driven, participatory approach to providing community infrastructure. The modality is
trusted by communities for its transparency and efficiency to deliver services, and the
union parishad chairpersons are expected to be the principal advocates for the continued
use of this decentralized planning and construction of services. The approach is also
consistent with the National Water Supply and Sanitation Policy.

The project intended to restructure the DPHE, linking it to an independent PMU, and
changing it to a planning and regulatory agency that would adopt a demand-driven
approach with communities planning and implementing community-level water supply.
However, specific project-supported initiatives were not included to achieve this goal,
and the new institutional arrangement was perceived by the DPHE as an attempt to
undermine the established administrative structure. The arrangement was abandoned in
2003, when the PMU was formally incorporated into the DPHE structure.

The "independent" PMU was closely linked to the DPHE hierarchy and adopted the same
administrative procedures. A number of key staff, including the project directors, were
drawn from the DPHE, supplemented by specialist consultant support. The
implementation modality enabled the PMU staff to gain hands-on experience in
implementing the demand-driven approach, working with support organizations and
communities, appraising community proposals, and providing general oversight of
implementation. Noteworthy was the interest and motivation demonstrated by DPHE
superintending and assistant engineers at the upazila level in participating in the project
activities in close collaboration with the regional PMU staff. Overall, this arrangement
served to strengthen the DPHE, and it could be inferred that this level of interest and
collaboration even at the field level, and the success of the project, may have some
lasting impact on the DPHE. Whether the DPHE's senior managers are ready to change
established practices is not certain at this time.

The incorporation of NAMIC as part of the DPHE will provide an in-house resource that
will enhance its long-term capacity for integrating arsenic mitigation planning into water
sector planning, and developing policies and strategies.

Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive and negative)

Other supplementary unintended outcomes are (a) the development role of NGOs as
consultant partners to support public sector programs; (b) the strengthening of informal
contractors to enter into simple contracts with community-based organizations for
community infrastructure; (c) the development and use of a water quality testing and
monitoring protocol, which will have a significant influence on the national water quality
protocol under preparation; and (d) the operational linkage between (ground)water
resource and water supply interventions.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The detailed findings of a beneficiary survey, carried out by an independent consultant,
based on a sampling approach, are provided in Annex 5, and the lessons learned are


                                               19

summarized below. The complete report is available in the project files. The findings
were discussed at a stakeholder workshop held on 21 June 2006.

(a) Overall, the report finds that the project was successful in providing sustainable
arsenic-safe water supply options, with better design than other approaches; and
significantly strengthening local government institutions by giving power (and funding)
to union parishad chairpersons.

(b) The report states that while the demand-based approach had significant other benefits,
project interventions did not relate to arsenic concentration levels, population density, or
number of arsenicosis patients, and did not result in a uniform distribution of mitigation
options, because of the demand-based approach adopted (see commentary on this
statement in Section 2.1).

(c) The stature of union parishad chairpersons was significantly enhanced as they played
a key role in the community and ward-level decisionmaking and implementation.

(d) Support organizations need to spend more time in communities to raise awareness to
support community development.

(e) The project provided more safe water options to the higher-income population as the
poor took part less in the decisionmaking process to obtain safe water.

(f) The quality of work was satisfactory due the local control of quality of material and
implementation.

(g) Over 90 percent of deep tubewells constructed were in good working order, but
people had concerns about the presence of high concentrations of iron and salinity.

(h) Despite a project design that formally included women, they generally had a limited
role in the decisionmaking process, though they were often involved in caretaking of
constructed facilities.

(i) Over 90 percent of the sample population used arsenic-safe water for drinking, but
used surface water for cooking.

(j) Since 2003, BAMWSP became closely identified with the DPHE, and the PMU's
regional management units had a strong and decisive presence.

(k) On health aspects, there was no coordination between BAMWSP and government
health services; a few villages having a high concentration of arsenicosis patients did not
receive arsenic-safe water; trained doctors were not always posted in upazilas with
arsenicosis patients; and neither the patients nor the community knew where to go for
treatment of arsenic-related illnesses.

(l) Monitoring and evaluation of project achievements was not given enough attention by
the PMU, nor was it carried out in a thorough or consistent way.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The assessment is based on the following:




                                               20

(a) The current National Arsenic Mitigation Policy is restrictive and does not provide
affordable options to provide arsenic-safe options to a large population still at risk. The
mitigation options adopted in non-coastal areas (dug wells, pond sand filters, and
rainwater harvesting) were not popular. The wealth of data and experience that accrued
from BAMWSP provides a unique opportunity for the Government of Bangladesh to
review this policy. Not to do so would risk achieving development outcome.

(b) Since distribution of the new deep tubewells is not as dense as the widely used
shallow tubewells, requiring longer walking distances, people may revert to using
arsenic-contaminated water from shallow tubewells or unhygienic surface water. Some
people use the safe option for drinking, and continue to use surface water for cooking.
This risk is minimal because, similar to the proliferation of shallow tubewells in the last
two decades, it is highly likely that individuals and communities will construct more deep
tubewells with their own resources.

(c) Due to possible change or deterioration in water quality in new deep tubewells,
specifically the increase in the level of arsenic contamination, communities need to be
made aware of the need for periodic testing of the new tubewells to monitor changes in
arsenic concentrations. The continuation of the awareness raising campaign would reduce
this risk.

(d) People will avoid using water from tubewells painted red, but will drill new shallow
tubewells for use without testing water quality. This risk could be reduced by a
continuing education campaign, and an arrangement for community-level water quality
testing in tubewells installed in the future.

(e) The DPHE may not be committed to using the demand-driven community-based
approach to provide arsenic-safe options to all vulnerable people in the country, which
could put achieving the development outcome at risk. The risk is not considered high, for
several reasons: the demand-driven approach achieved overwhelming success under
BAMWSP; the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA) used the same model except that funding was passed
through the DPHE, unlike in BAMWSP where funding was passed through the
communities; and the national water supply and sanitation policy recommends
decentralized implementation.

(f) It is possible that the new deep tubewells will fall into disuse because communities
will fail to maintain them. This risk is minimal because maintenance of the tubewells is
within the capability of communities; communities have made firm commitments to
maintain the assets; and because of the established track record of communities that have
maintained millions of shallow tubewells in the country.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality of Entry




                                              21

(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank responded quickly and confidently to a crisis, the magnitude of which was not
known, and with limited available knowledge of arsenic occurrence in drinking water.
Based on preliminary, but sound, assessment of the problem and available limited
knowledge, the project was formulated incorporating a flexible approach explicitly
providing for adjustments based on experience gained during implementation. The design
included countrywide well screening; an intensive awareness-raising campaign;
development of arsenic-safe mitigation options, implementation strategies, and eligibility
criteria; 20­40 percent cost sharing by communities; arsenic-safe affordable and
sustainable community-friendly mitigation options appropriate for community-level
construction; empowerment of local governments, particularly the union parishad
chairpersons; a scalable demand-driven delivery modality, with appropriate fiduciary
controls, capable of reaching many communities, emphasizing community participation
in planning and construction, cost sharing and maintenance of assets; use of support
organizations (including NGOs) as partners to form community-based organizations and
help them to prepare action plans based on community preferences; piloting private
sector participation in the provision of piped water supply to large rural communities; and
activities to improve understanding and expand knowledge of the arsenic problem. Donor
collaboration was accorded priority to coordinate assistance to the Government of
Bangladesh and to harmonize implementation. The project design and implementation
modality were entirely appropriate to the prevailing emergency, and are judged "highly
satisfactory".

The project recognized the primary need to improve understanding of the extent and
occurrence of arsenic contamination. The project provided for two key start-up activities,
which were well screening and an information campaign on health issues. Another
important activity planned was the development of the comprehensive database through
NAMIC. These activities were correctly recognized as having significant impacts on
improving the understanding about arsenic, and reducing the quantity of arsenic ingested
by the population at risk.

A cornerstone of project design was a strong and "independent" Project Management
Unit (PMU), which would depart from traditional practice and procedures to successfully
manage the program using a demand-driven approach with extensive community
participation. It should have been obvious to the Bank that the arrangement would meet
considerable opposition from the DPHE. The risk was compounded because no systems
and procedures were put in place to enable the PMU to operate without being subject to
administrative controls of the DPHE.

The overall rating of quality at entry is therefore "satisfactory".

Quality of Supervision
(Including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision teams faced a number of challenges: timely establishment and staffing of the
PMU, project directors who were unable to advance implementation, and delay in start-


                                               22

up procurement of test kits and consultants. The supervision mission's aide memoires
provided detailed accounts of the problems in the project. Unsatisfactory ratings started
within the first six months of the project, and it was designated a problem project for over
1½ years. Many staff were involved in supervision ­ 30, according to the QAS
assessment. The large supervision input appears to have had little impact on, or response
from, the PMU, which was closely controlled by the DPHE. In the face of mounting
problems in the project, Bank management did not react decisively until four years into
project implementation. Quality of supervision by the Bank during this four-year period
is assessed as "moderately satisfactory".

The Quality of Supervision Assessment in 2000 (Annex 4 provides details) rated Bank
supervision as "marginal". Their main findings were: (a) supervision effort lacked a
strategy, and did not use the Bank's leverage to achieve project objectives; (b) the Bank
miscalculated the practicality of the project management arrangement independent of the
DPHE; (c) regional country management did not take action despite "unsatisfactory"
ratings, and differences within the supervision team; (d) supervision was not well
planned, having 30 staff at one time and exceeding the supervision budget, and receiving
little cooperation from the DPHE management; (e) after four years, the Bank actively
supported incorporation of the PMU into the DPHE, and granted extensions to the credit
closing date four times in response to improved progress; and (f) supervision improved in
later years with a new team and greater cooperation with the Water and Sanitation
Program (WSP).

In 2003, the Bank supported the incorporation of the PMU formally into the DPHE. This
action also coincided with the appointment of new management for the PMU and a
change in the Bank's supervision team. The combination of the new proactive PMU
management and the new Bank team, reinforced by the Dhaka-based WSP inputs, was
the turning point for improved cooperation between the PMU and the Bank team. The
implementation modality was changed from community-based organization to the ward
level and the pace of implementation improved significantly. Both disbursements and
project performance improved significantly enabling the project to substantially achieve
its objectives. Bank supervision during the latter period from 2003 onwards is rated
"satisfactory".

The overall rating of supervision during the project's lifetime is "satisfactory".

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The project demonstrated successfully a model for decentralized implementation, and it
also improved the understanding of the arsenic problem. Project design, incorporating a
flexible approach and a decentralized participatory approach empowering communities
and local governments, was highly satisfactory considering that the project started out
with little knowledge of the problem. The flexible approach enabled changes to suit new
situations. In the search for an alternative to the DPHE, the Bank settled on a model that
had little chance of success. Bank supervision was poor during the first four years, but
improved significantly in the last three years. The project management model created
many difficulties in the early years, reflected in the critical appraisal by the Quality of



                                              23

Supervision Assessment. Having made the necessary adjustments in 2003, the Bank
resolutely pursued the primary objective of providing arsenic-safe water to the target
population; between 2 and 2.5 million people benefited from safe options and about 50
million people were educated on the impacts of arsenic in drinking water. Based on the
Bank's overall performance over the entire period, performance is assessed as
"satisfactory".

5.2 Borrower Performance

Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government of Bangladesh was highly committed to the project, recognizing the
need to address the arsenic issue urgently. Consistent with the National Water Supply and
Sanitation Policy, the government was very supportive of the decentralized participatory
approach to deliver mitigation options. The government also supported the establishment
of the PMU independent of the DPHE, and it was keen to restructure the DPHE.
However, it was not able to influence the DPHE to actively support the PMU during the
first four years. The government constituted a National Expert Committee to draft the
National Arsenic Mitigation Policy, which many experts believe needed review. The
government was not able to provide adequate counterpart funds to meet the high demand
for mitigation works during the last six months of the project. It did not encourage and
support the PMU to use the SDC grant funds for technical assistance activities. There
were also significant delays in decisionmaking or approvals sought.

Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

During the first four years, when the PMU was the formal implementing agency, it did
not operate proactively, or with any degree of independence, as the senior management
comprised staff deputed from the DPHE. The project directors were not effective because
they were not motivated, did not support project concepts, or were too entrenched in the
DPHE practices. During that period, the performance of the PMU is assessed
"unsatisfactory". The performance improved significantly in 2003 after the PMU was
incorporated into the DPHE, and new management was installed in the PMU, and the
project outputs were fully achieved. The performance during the post-2003 period is
judged "satisfactory".

For all intents and purposes, the DPHE remained the de facto implementing agency
throughout the project. Even though managers of the DPHE may not have fully supported
the project management model, it appears that senior managers supported the
involvement of the field engineers to work in close cooperation with the PMU's regional
staff to provide implementation support. The overall performance of the DPHE is
assessed "moderately satisfactory".




                                            24

Department of Public Health Engineering.            Project Management Unit. Project start-
Indirectly, the DPHE influenced the                 up was delayed for about 1½ years due to
performance of the PMU as it had certain            delays in establishment and staffing of
administrative and financial powers. The            the PMU, procurement of test kits for
DPHE opposed this independent                       well screening, and engagement of key
arrangement, and cooperation from the               consultants. The PMU was not able to
DPHE was not forthcoming. Matters that              operate independently of the DPHE.
were within its powers were referred to the         Performance during the last 2½ years of
Local Government Division for decision or           the project improved significantly,
approval. Since the incorporation of the            primarily due to improved management,
PMU into the DPHE in 2003, the DPHE                 and incorporation of the PMU formally
probably facilitated the PMU to operate more into the DPHE.
efficiently without interference.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Despite the initial and continuing difficulties, the Government of Bangladesh remained
committed to the project and to achieving the primary goal of providing arsenic-safe
water in the project areas. The government continued its support for the decentralized
participatory approach that empowered communities and local governments. Following
delays at project start, the PMU complied with most agreements with the Bank, and it has
made significant progress since 2003, following several years of poor performance. Thus,
despite the protracted initial difficulties, given that outputs exceeded the original targets
set, and project outcomes were substantially achieved, the borrower's overall
performance is rated as "moderately satisfactory".

6. Lessons Learned
(Both project specific and of wide general application)

6.1 General

Arsenic mitigation needs to be mainstreamed into the water supply sector in order to be
sustainable, focusing on innovative ways to deliver safe water supply in both nonpiped
and piped water supply. The BWSPP incorporates this key lesson learned from the
BAMWSP experience. Mitigation options should be based on a sound National Arsenic
Mitigation Policy that takes account of the understanding and scientific knowledge
acquired through the implementation of BAMWSP and by other donor interventions. A
significant population of the country continues to ingest arsenic-contaminated water,
including in pourashavas, as BAMWSP interventions covered only a small portion of the
affected population. Continuing public and private sector interventions will be required to
address the problem.

Decentralized community-based planning and management of rural water supply and
sanitation with a central role for local governments has been demonstrated as a model for
future interventions by the Government of Bangladesh. Communities came to trust the
implementation modality of BAMWSP: it empowered them to plan, share costs, and


                                               25

implement the options, and results could be delivered in a relatively short time compared
to the traditional supply-driven approach. Views expressed at the stakeholder workshop
indicated that union parishad chairpersons would have played a greater role in the
delivery of mitigation options once they gained confidence and understood the process.
While encouraging the key role of the union parishad chairpersons, the participatory
process needs to be made more transparent and include women and the poor in
decisionmaking. The conclusion is that there are good prospects for implementing rural
community infrastructure, adopting the same or similar approaches with appropriate
fiduciary controls and transparency.

Supply of bacteriologically safe water should be the priority, not just arsenic-safe water.
Though alarm was raised over arsenic, available information indicates that there are about
30,000 arsenicosis patients and an estimated 6,500 annual deaths from arsenic-induced
cancers, compared to the reported average of about 110,000 deaths of children per year
due to water-related illnesses (2002 UNICEF statistics). Consumers concerns about iron,
taste, odor, and safe levels of barium and manganese should be addressed.

The rolling out of pilot village piped water supply with significant private financing and
management through carefully controlled and guided assistance from both the PMU and
the Bank is a good example of field-testing and development of large-scale investments.
Further development of this model will require that issues relating to hygiene and
sanitation, disposal of wastewater, non-revenue water, and regulation of service providers
are addressed.

6.2 Project Specific

Practical and workable project management models need to be designed taking account
of administrative and political sensitivities. The model of a PMU independent of the
DPHE, but still under its administrative and financial procedures, had little chance of
success unless systems and procedures were clearly specified to provide it with the
necessary powers. Alternatively, a program to restructure the DPHE through the vehicle
of BAMWSP should have been considered, including activities or incentives to support
the institutional change.

The treatment of arsenicosis patients could have been addressed with more vigor, through
the new health project that had been planned. Continued monitoring of patients and
outreach activities by the health services are necessary, as symptoms of arsenicosis may
appear many years after ingestion.

It is important to continue the awareness campaign regarding arsenic in drinking water,
reinforcing messages on drinking arsenic-safe water, testing of new shallow tubewells,
periodic testing of new deep tubewells, and the safe storage and use of water. Since many
more wells are being constructed outside the public sector, consumer awareness should
be enhanced to include testing water quality at construction, and periodically thereafter.
A system to make available water testing kits through union parishads or leading NGOs
would complement the private sector efforts to provide drinking water, and provide a
check on water quality.




                                               26

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners


7.1 Borrower/Implementing Agencies

The output figures mentioned in the Borrower's Comments and Report, which had been
based on the earlier draft submitted by the Borrower, have been revised in this final ICR
document, as applicable.

7.2 Cofinanciers

We agree with the observations conveyed by SDC (see Annex 8).

7.3 Other Partners and Stakeholders

DFID was a close partner during project implementation and provided the comments
shown in Annex 8.

ICR Team Comments: (a) BAMWSP has demonstrated that the less costly mitigation
options than that of the surface water proposed in the National Arsenic Mitigation Policy
are available through the program of deep tubewells and scientific knowledge and data to
support exploitation of a deep aquifer. Accumulated evidence makes a strong case for the
government to revisit the policy; (b) Coordination between BAMWSP and the health
sector did not occur because a planned project that was supposed to take place in parallel
to address health issues in a more comprehensive manner did not materialize; (c) It is
likely that the integration of the PMU into the formal structure of DPHE in 2002 did
influence the DPHE to adopt a demand-driven approach, which now has a proven track
record of success; (d) though more research studies could have been carried out, valuable
work was done on the use of isotopes for characterizing and mapping arsenic-safe water
in the deep groundwater aquifer, development of a water quality testing and monitoring
protocol, and testing of household-level chemical treatment options for arsenic removal;
(e) the NAMIC database is now fully accessible to all interested parties, after technical
problems and data validation issues have been addressed.




                                             27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in USD Million Equivalent)

                                            Appraisal             Actual/Latest
Components                               Estimate (USD            Estimate (USD               Percentage of

                                             millions)                millions)                 Appraisal

On-Site Mitigation                             26.10                   11.731                      44.95

Improved Understanding of the
Arsenic Problem                                 3.80                   11.712                     308.21

Strengthening of Implementation
Capacity                                       14.50                     4.959                     34.20

             Total Baseline Cost               44.40

Physical Contingencies                          0.00                      0.00                       0.00

Price Contingencies                             0.00                      0.00                       0.00

             Total Project Costs               44.40                     28.40

Project Preparation Fund                        0.00                      0.00                       0.00

Front-End Fee IBRD                              0.00                      0.00                       0.00

     Total Financing Required                  44.40                     28.40                     63.96


Financing

                                                           Appraisal         Actual/Latest

Source of Funds                        Type of              Estimate            Estimate        Percentage of
                                       Cofinancing            (USD                 (USD            Appraisal
                                                            millions)           millions)7

Government of Bangladesh               Counterpart             4.90                3.66              74.69

Other (Community)                      Cofinancing             4.10                1.51              36.82

International Development
Association (IDA)                      Credit                 32.40                23.16             66.66

Switzerland: Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation            Cofinancing             3.00                0.207              6.90
(SDC)




7 GoB and Community contributions are those reported by the Borrower. The difference between the total
estimate reported here and the estimate reported in the project cost table is attributed to a difference in the
exchange rate used to calculate these contributions. IDA and SDC contributions are from Client Connection.




                                                     28

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

On-site mitigation

Four alternative arsenic mitigation options were identified, tested, and validated: dug
wells, deep tubewells, pond sand filters, and rainwater harvesting. Four arsenic removal
technologies (chemical options), approved by the Bangladesh Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research and the Ontario Center for Environmental Technology Assessment,
were deployed by the proponents; they were under testing and validation until the end of
the project. The deep tubewell option, which was the most popular, reliable, and
considered to provide arsenic-safe water, costs about Taka 45,000 (about US$650). The
deep tubewell option was also the lowest-cost option on a per capita basis. Where deep
tubewells were not permitted by government policy, dug wells, pond sand filters, or
rainwater harvesting were adopted, which together accounted for only about 7 percent of
the options chosen.

In total, 9,977 mitigation options for nonpiped water supply have been constructed. These
include 9,272 deep tubewells, 393 dug wells, 12 pond sand filters, and 300 rainwater
harvesting systems. The mitigation options benefited households in about 1,800 villages.
A further 600 ward action plans had already been approved by the PMU, and those
additional mitigation options have been carried over for implementation under the
BWSPP. A population of between 2 million and 2.5 million were provided with arsenic-
safe water.

The density of distribution of deep tubewells increased as the project progressed, as
follows: one per 200 households in the 6 upazila program; one per 50 households in the
35 upazila program; and one per 10­15 households in the 17 upazila program. The
decision to increase the well density per village, thus reducing the project target to less
than 4,000 villages, was made for two reasons: the increased demand and evidence from
other projects indicating that increasing the number of families using one tubewell results
in longer walking distances, and the tendency of people to use nearby sources irrespective
of water quality, resorting to contaminated water sources nearby.

390 production wells in 100 pourashavas (urban areas) were screened, establishing data
on the status of arsenic contamination. The project financed two new production wells,
rehabilitation of existing production wells, and the distribution network in one
pourashava (Chapai Nawabganj), which had registered the highest level of arsenic
contamination. The urban screening as originally planned was not carried out towards the
end of the project because of limited PMU capacity, resources, and time for an analysis of
all the household shallow tubewells in 100 pourashavas.

One scheme for rural piped water supply for 1,100 households was completed based on a
new model that includes construction, management, and operation for 15 years by a
sponsor (an investor, most often an NGO) on a cost sharing basis of 10 percent, 40
percent, and 50 percent by community, sponsor, and project, respectively. Under this
scheme, consumers have individual connections that will facilitate internal plumbing,
including water closets. There is an explicit emphasis on provision of safe affordable
water to the poor. This new option permits the convenience factor to be addressed in
household water supply choices. It would also permit, on a large scale, the focusing of



                                             29

water quality monitoring on one point source per scheme, rather than dozens of deep
tubewells or hundreds of shallow tubewells per village.

Mitigation options were affordable, and could be constructed by communities or
community contractors. A participatory delivery mechanism with cost sharing (10 percent
minimum) developed under the project was able to reach a large number of beneficiaries.
The union parishad chairperson played a lead role in the planning and implementation of
the options for which funds were passed on to the bank accounts of the community
organizations. The communities own the assets created, and will maintain them.

Improved understanding of the arsenic problem

Overall, a reasonably good understanding of the arsenic problem has emerged through
project activities carried out jointly with other actors. Continuous monitoring and more
research and studies are required to improve this understanding.

Project activities that helped improve the understanding of the arsenic problem include
the countrywide well screening program, the deep tubewell drilling program, and the
water quality database developed by NAMIC. Collaboration with other partners
participating in the arsenic mitigation program has led to the NAMIC database being
essentially converted to a national database. Analysis of the NAMIC database indicates
that the extent of arsenic contamination is worse than was originally estimated. About 54
of the 64 districts, amounting to 270 upazilas, have been confirmed to have arsenic
contamination. About 29 percent of all shallow tubewells in the country have arsenic
contamination above Bangladesh's standard.

The project supported the development of a comprehensive database that provides a
picture of spatial distribution of arsenic in the country, level of arsenic contamination in
all screened wells, water quality in new deep tubewells constructed, hydrogeological
information results from the deep tubewell drilling program, GPS coordinates of new
wells, and household socioeconomic data. NAMIC has helped advance knowledge of the
arsenic problem. The database will facilitate policymaking and integration of arsenic
mitigation into water sector investment planning in Bangladesh. This freely accessible
database can also serve as a baseline reference, and provide information to researchers
and the general public. Data from the NAMIC database are available on the BAMWSP
website and have been transferred to the BWSPP website for continued access. The
database will be a useful resource for researchers, sponsors of village piped water supply,
and decisionmakers.

At project closure, the database included screening results of the existing shallow
tubewells in most of the country; more comprehensive data from the 270 upazilas where
arsenic levels exceeded the Bangladesh standard; water quality and GPS coordinates of a
large number of the new deep tubewells constructed; and household and hydrogeological
data. However, it is known that additional shallow tubewells have continued to be
constructed by private households since completion of the national screening effort and
data from these are not yet included in the database. The Bank has agreed that water
quality testing, GPS coordinates, and validation of water quality results of the BAMWSP
program be completed under the BWSPP.




                                               30

The above activities have helped to improve the understanding of the occurrence and the
spatial distribution of arsenic in groundwater. However, uncertainties remain as to the
source, mobilization, and transport of arsenic in groundwater. The monitoring carried out
so far is insufficient to understand the variations in arsenic levels in groundwater over
time.

An ironic twist of painting unsafe wells red is that while most people have avoided taking
water from those wells, some have instead drilled new shallow tubewells on the
presumption that the new wells were safe. Since shallow well drilling is an ongoing
activity in communities, the project was not equipped to screen these new shallow wells.
A program for communities to undertake screening of wells, and to continue education
and awareness-raising on arsenic issues, is necessary.

Strengthening of implementation capacity

The project financed the establishment and operating costs of the consultants in the PMU
and NAMIC; consultant services for research and studies; support organizations to assist
communities; numerous training programs for all partner organizations (support
organizations, community-based organizations, WAMWUGs, union parishad officials,
DPHE and PMU staff and officials, local government officials, and sponsors of rural
piped water supply); water quality test kits and testing; and vehicles and equipment. The
Government of Bangladesh financed about 74 key positions in the PMU, including the
project director and senior staff.

Through the above support and experience gained in implementation, the capacity of the
PMU and the DPHE were strengthened. Despite earlier setbacks, the implementation
capacity was significantly strengthened under strong leadership, especially in the last
three years of the project. This period coincided with the integration of the PMU into the
DPHE, and this will enable the DPHE to replicate these approaches in the future.
Whether willingness exists among senior DPHE management to follow this course will
be demonstrated in time.

NAMIC is planned to become part of DPHE's proposed National Water Supply and
Sanitation Information Center, until which time it will be supported by the BWSPP.
Being the repository of data and information on arsenic-related issues, NAMIC is
expected to play an important role in keeping the arsenic problem to the forefront, and
facilitating integration of arsenic issues into water sector policy, planning, and
investment.

The project succeeded in building the capacity of communities to plan and construct
simple arsenic-safe water supplies using a participatory demand-driven approach with
capital cost sharing. Working closely with the union parishad chairpersons, the project
also empowered the union parishads and demonstrated a model for decentralized
infrastructure construction with communities taking responsibility for planning (based on
affordability and preference), managing funds passed on directly to the communities,
organizing construction, and managing the assets created. Support organizations,
primarily local NGOs, played a key role in the mobilization of communities, informing
them of mitigation options, opening bank accounts, fostering participatory
decisionmaking and preparation of proposals and MoUs, and supervising construction.



                                              31

Through the intensive training received under the project and experience gained, a cadre
of capable support organizations has been created.




                                           32

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

As the necessary information was not available at appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was
not carried out. The primary aim of the project was to provide arsenic-safe water to as
many people as possible, focusing on minimum needs and health. The preferred
mitigation option developed with each community-based organization was the least-cost
solution acceptable to the community. Arsenic-safe water provided through the project
benefited between 2 million and 3 million people in the project areas. Potentially, an
additional 40 million to 50 million people benefited from the countrywide well screening
and health messages delivered through the mass information campaign.

Least-cost analysis was carried out during implementation for each option, using
guidelines developed by the project. Working closely with community-based
organizations or WAMWUGs, support organizations helped communities identify least-
cost solutions acceptable to the communities to meet their minimum needs for drinking
and cooking, as well as meeting arsenic and other water quality standards. Support
organizations engaged by the project were trained on the project's intervention modality,
conduct of social and economic surveys, and assessment of demand. Detailed manuals
were prepared by the PMU covering all aspects of support organization activities,
approved mitigation solutions, cost sharing criteria, schedule of unit rates, and
specifications for works.

Four mitigation options were adopted as follows: deep tubewell, ring (dug) well, pond
sand filter, and rainwater harvesting system. In accordance with Government of
Bangladesh policy, the deep tubewell option was permitted only in coastal areas, and in
the last year, in a few other upazilas where no other options were deemed viable. The
eligibility criteria for project intervention assured that project resources were targeted
toward areas with large numbers of contaminated wells, thus achieving high arsenic-
related health benefits.

Benefits

The primary benefit from the project was that about 2 million to 2.5 million people in
about 1,800 villages and one urban area now have access to arsenic-safe water,
contributing significantly to the reduction in the incidence of arsenicosis, and mortality
and morbidity due to arsenic-related illnesses are expected to decrease. Potentially, about
40 million to 50 million people have benefited from information on arsenic ingestion and
health impacts, the testing of wells, and clear identification of unsafe wells.




                                               33

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

Task Team Members

Names                    Title                             Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Guy Alaerts              Lead Water Resources Specialist   ASUEN      TTL/Water
                                                                      Resources
Arun Banerjee            Sr. Operations Officer            BDO        Financial Analysis
G. Dent                  Economist                         Consultant Economic Analysis
J. Phofl                 Hydrogeologist                    Consultant Hydrogeology
J. S. Ruz                Community Participation           Consultant Community
                         Specialist                                   Development
D. McDonnell             Water Supply Specialist           Consultant Water Supply
Khawaja M. Minnatullah   Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist RWSG/NDO Water Supply &
                                                                      Sanitation
Babar Kabir              Country Sector Leader             RWSG/NDO Water Supply &
                                                                      Sanitation
Zahed Khan               Sr. Urban Specialist              RWSG/BDO   Water Supply &
                                                                      Sanitation
Supervision/ICR
Nadim Kouri              Sr. Natural Res. Mgmt. Specialist  LCSER     TTL/Natural
                                                                      Resources
S. Ahmed                 Water and Sanitation Specialist     WSP/
                                                            SASAR
Nurul Alam               Procurement Specialist             PSSAR     Procurement
M. Sayeed                Disbursement Officer               RFM       Disbursement
Mozammal Hoque           Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM    Financial
                                                                      Management
Aminul Haque             Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS    Procurement
Babar Kabir              Country Sector Leader              RWSG/     Mission leader/Water
                                                            NDO       Supply & Sanitation
M.A. Ghani               Irrigation Engineer
Nilufar Ahmad            Sr. Social Scientist               SASSD     Social Scientist
Quanrul Hasan            Sr. Procurement Specialist          SARPS    Procurement
Toshiaki Keicho          Sr. Urban Environment Specialist    SASIN    TTL
Kirsten Hommann          Economist                          SASIN     Economics
Shafiul Azam Ahmed       Water and Sanitation Specialist     TWUSA    Sanitation
Lamia Rashid             Social Scientist                    SASSD    Social Scientist
Rebecca Robe             Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM    Financial
                                                                      Management
Paul Martin              Sr. Environmental Specialist       Ex SASES/ TTL/Environment
                                                            now AFTSD
Rachel Kauffmann         Health Specialist                  SASES     Health



                                            34

M. Khaliquzzaman           Consultant                           SASSD   Environment
Roy Boerschke              Program Coordinator/Arsenic Donor SASES      Donor Coordination
                           Coordination Unit
Zita Lichtenberg           Communications Officer               SAREX   Communications
Suraiya Zannath            Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM    Financial
                                                                        Management
Shahpar Salim              Research Analyst                     SASES   Environment
Jeffrey Racki              Sector Manager                       SASES   Management
David De Groot             Senior Urban Specialist              AFTU1   Urban Development
Munawer Khalfan            Consultant                           SASES   Water Supply
Debabrata Chakraborti      Procurement Specialist               SARPS   Procurement
Burhanuddin Ahmed          Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM    Financial
                                                                        Management
Karin Erika Kemper         Lead Water Resources Management SASES/       TTL/Water
                           Specialist                           SASSD   Resources
Cecilia Belita             Senior Program Assistant             SASES/  Overall Support/
                                                                SASSD   Support to ICR
Amal Talbi                 Young Professional                   YPP     Hydrogeology
Tanveer Ashan              Consultant                           WSP     Environment/Arsenic
Albert Tuinhof             Consultant                           GWMATE Hydrogeology
Kamal Ahmed                Consultant                                   Financial Analysis
Sakil Feduosi              Consultant (Water Engineer)                  Water Supply
Bernardo Gomez             Consultant (Financial Specialist)    SASES   Water Supply
                                                                        Financing
Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez   Sr. Environmental Specialist (at the ENV     Environment/Water
                           time of involvement)                         Supply
Swarna Kazi                Program Assistant                    SACBD   Environment
Pieter David Meerbach      Young Professional                   YPP     Environment
Siet Meijer                Operations Analyst                   SASES/  Environment
                                                                SASSD
Sanjay Pahuja              Environmental Specialist             SASES/  Environment
                                                                SASSD
Husein A. Rashid           Consultant (Water Supply Engineer) SASES     Water Supply
                                                                        Engineering
Mohammad Abdullah Sadeque  Procurement Specialist               SARPS   Procurement
Razia N. Sultana           Program Assistant                    SACBD   Overall Admin
                                                                        Support
Guillermo Yepes            Consultant (Water Supply Engineer) SASES     Water Supply
                                                                        Engineering
Md. Abul Fayez Khan        Program Assistant                    ETWSA   Overall Admin
                                                                        Support
Catherine Signe Tovey      Young Professional (Technical        YPP     Water Policy/Social
                           Specialist)                                  Issues
A. D. C. Godavitarne       Consultant                           SASES/  ICR Main Author
                                                                SASSD
Carla Vale de Holguin      Research Analyst                     SASSD   Support to ICR
                                                                        Preparation



                                            35

Staff Time and Cost

                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of Staff Weeks         USD Thousands (Incl.
                                                                Travel, Consultant Costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                       2.86
  FY98                                                                     237.78
  FY99                                                                      37.53
  FY00                                                                       1.16
  FY01                                                                       0.00
  FY02                                                                       0.00
  FY03                                                                       0.00
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                       0.00
  FY07                                                                       0.00
                            Total:                                        279.33
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                      0.00
  FY98                                                                      0.00
  FY99                                                                    108.57
  FY00                                         114                        304.87
  FY01                                          59                         80.23
  FY02                                          44                        105.79
  FY03                                          60                        223.27
  FY04                                          30                        142.62
  FY05                                          22                        103.06
  FY06                                          14                        119.59
  FY07                                           2                         95.83
                            Total:             345                       1,283.83




QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment (2000): Summary of Findings

A Quality of Supervision Assessment carried out by QAG in 2000 rated Bank supervision
"marginal". The panel's main findings were:

(a) The supervision effort lacked strategic thinking in working towards achieving the
project's development objectives, for example how to use the Bank's leverage to
accelerate project decisions, how to introduce international experience, and what risks to
take when trying to balance speed and sustainability.

(b) The Bank miscalculated on the practicality of having a PMU independent of the
DPHE without prior agreement on the detailed framework that would have enabled the


                                             36

PMU to operate successfully. It also set the project on a collision course with the DPHE.
The ad hoc arrangement for the PMU, outside the DPHE but within the same ministry,
had not worked, as there were many delays in establishing an operational PMU, and this
arrangement was seen as the root cause of the slow take-off of implementation.

(c) Two "unsatisfactory" ratings within three months of credit effectiveness, nonstart of
the well screening program, and lack of disbursements should have signaled to regional
country management that greater and higher-level attention was warranted, and
differences of views within the supervision team were not dealt with decisively or
expeditiously.

(d) Supervision was not well planned; over 30 staff from the field and headquarters were
involved, and the large supervision budget was overspent. This was corrected after over
four years of difficult implementation, during which there had been little cooperation
from the DPHE's senior management. In recognition of the prospects of successful
completion of the project, the Bank extended the credit closing date four times. This
proved to be the correct course of action.

(e) The Bank performed well in supervising fiduciary safeguards, bringing to light
tensions that had developed between the emergency nature of the project and the long-
term sectoral and institutional agenda, and in successfully coordinating with donors and
the Water and Sanitation Program-South Asia (WSP-SA).




                                             37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Assessment Results

Context

As part of this Intensive Learning ICR, a beneficiary assessment was carried out. The aim
was to learn from a project with significant public health implications, and to obtain
feedback from the ultimate beneficiaries ­ water users in mostly rural arsenic-affected
communities ­ in order to enhance the lessons learned and apply them in follow-on
operations where applicable.

Scope

A comprehensive and an in-depth beneficiary assessment for a limited number of
randomly sampled households in rural areas and in one urban pourashava were
undertaken. The beneficiary assessment covered 13 rural upazilas and Chapai Nawabganj
pourashava.

In the rural areas, the surveyed population consisted of one upazila from phase 1, six
from phase 2, five from phase 3, and one with a rural water piped supply system. The
impact and general effectiveness of these services were assessed using quantitative and
qualitative sampling methods.

Three surveys were administered, covering six rural subdistricts and Chapai Nawabganj
town, and assessing (a) arsenic awareness and water uses in 616 randomly sampled
households; (b) the condition of 148 randomly sampled project deep tubewells and a few
other options provided under the three different phases; and (c) satisfaction with and
levels of interest in piped supply water among 150 randomly sampled Chapai Nawabganj
piped water users and nonusers.

Respondents were mainly women responsible for the households. The qualitative part of
the study was done through data collected by a team of six to eight experienced field
workers.

Summary findings

Overall

(a) The period of this project's existence, 1998­2006, has been one of immense changes
in water-related policy, arsenic removal technology development, and mitigation program
approaches. Alongside the World Bank, several other donors and organizations have
supported the government's response. Each assumed responsibility for some part of the
nation's 270 affected upazilas. BAMWSP had responsibility for the single largest number
of 190 upazilas with a population of over 46 million.

(b) The evaluation reaffirmed the project's findings that user choice was directly
influenced by the convenience of service levels and aesthetically acceptable water
quality. Arsenic does not have any taste or color and it is difficult to sustain continuous
use of arsenic-safe water when a safe source is located farther than alternative unsafe
sources. Union parishad (local council) chairpersons were the chief local decisionmakers



                                             38

regarding distribution of safe water options and the arrangement of installations. Their
role gradually became stronger as they came to understand the project's procedures and
benefits. Involving local government institutions in local safe water options planning and
distribution was the project's most important contribution in the arsenic mitigation field.

(c) Transparency in the entire implementation cycle is equally important as participation
to ensure equitable and effective access. Comparing phase 2 (35 upazila program) and
phase 3 (17 upazila program), the study found that in phase 2 project benefits were more
equitably distributed than in phase 3. Phase 3 work was carried out in the last phase of the
project, under a very tight deadline and by bundling decisionmaking to the ward level
(and the phase was not entirely completed when the survey was administered). This
combination resulted in respondents feeling that mitigation activities were done in a less
transparent manner in phase 3 than in phase 2, which was more cumbersome
administratively (for both beneficiaries and for project staff), but worked with smaller
groups (community-based organizations specifically created for each mitigation option).

Specific findings

(a) Problems were noted with some alternative water supply options as these need careful
implementation and routine and substantial operation and maintenance compared to the
shallow tubewell handpumps that households have been using through their own
financing. Two different mitigation options (dug wells and pond sand filters) had failed
due to poor quality construction, lack of people's technical knowledge, and lack of
follow-up support from the project.

(b) The community-based organizations fulfilled their immediate purpose of obtaining a
safe water option, but did not endure beyond that.

(c) The project has provided a larger number of safe water options in places where there
existed more energetic union parishad chairpersons. The project being demand-based,
distribution was influenced accordingly.

(d) Time limits and deadlines for community contribution results in putting the poor
segment at a disadvantage, as poor members are either short of cash or can arrange to pay
seasonally only. In both phase 2 and phase 3, around half of all deep tubewell recipients
reported paying more than the officially required cost share amounts. In the majority of
cases cost share amounts were paid by only one, two, or three households, rather than by
the 10­100 who signed application papers. Seasonality and alternative resource sharing
should be taken into account to ensure the poor's participation.

(e) The demand-based approach, while having many benefits, does not result in a logical
distribution of safe water options by union, according to established public health
principles; there was no evident relationship to arsenic contamination levels, population
percentages, or identified patients within the project upazilas, except for the fact that the
project-targeted areas had relatively higher overall arsenic contamination percentages.

(f) Mainstreaming the PMU under the DPHE enhanced project performance. As a result
of the changes made in 2003 in the project pro forma, BAMWSP became more closely
associated with the sponsoring line agency, the DPHE.




                                             39

(g) The technical quality of deep tubewell installation was, for the most part, satisfactory,
largely because of the high degree of local control over materials procurement and
regular checking by local users and others on the progress of work.

(h) The project's regional PMUs were a strong and decisive presence in the project.

(i) Acceptability of NGOs as project implementing partners has been a difficult challenge
for the centralized agency. NGOs contracted to work on awareness raising and mitigation
worked more effectively in some areas than others for various reasons. The role of the
NGOs remained somewhat controversial and ambiguous as the project drew to a close.

(j) Record keeping was not satisfactory. The project headquarters did not thoroughly
maintain records or document the precise status of its activities. This shortcoming made it
difficult to measure precisely the achievements of BAMWSP.

(k) Awareness raising calls for repeat campaigns. A 2004 evaluation study of BAMWSP
awareness raising activities, which was conducted by 19 NGOs in 147 upazilas, found
that the campaign had been successful in about half of the locations. The present study
found people to have been generally informed but alarmed by the screening campaigns,
during which their household tubewells were painted either red (indicating "unsafe"
arsenic contamination levels) or green ("safe" water). Awareness of the arsenic problem
among household survey respondents was found to be generally satisfactory: for
example, around 74 percent could describe symptoms of arsenicosis; around half said,
correctly, that the illness was not contagious; and two thirds said, correctly, that it was
not hereditary.

(l) Claim of ownership of safe deep tubewells is generally low. In the survey of deep
tubewell caretakers, 10 percent of poor households covered by the household survey were
found to have ownership share in a BAMWSP-provided deep tubewell, compared to 25
percent of high-income households. The poor are less capable of paying the required cost
share amounts than others. Perhaps more importantly, local government officials, not
expecting them to be able to pay, failed in some cases to inform poor neighborhoods of
the opportunity to obtain safe water through this project.

(m) The participatory process enabled local women's active involvement. A positive
feature of the project was that it employed local women to do tubewell screening and
awareness raising, thus ensuring that women confined to small areas by purdah were able
to hear some arsenic messages. In virtually all places visited by the evaluation team,
however, women were found to have been excluded from decisions about options
distribution or siting of options. Their lack of inclusion in the project's processes
notwithstanding, it is women who travel long distances in search of arsenic-safe water,
bearing the physical burden of decisions in which they have no part.

(n) As regards urban piped supply water in Chapai Nawabganj pourashava, a large
proportion of the households with existing piped supply connections reportedly also made
use of tubewells and other water sources; 86 percent of sample households from the core
area and 70 percent from the extended area drank piped supply water; all the households
in the sample had taken half-inch pipe connections and were paying Taka 80 as a monthly
tariff; on average, two households were using water from a single house connection; all
respondents said that water was supplied twice a day; the average daily supply was



                                              40

available on average 10.1 hours in the core area and 8.3 hours in the extended area; a
majority of the households (58 percent in the core and 72 percent in the extended area)
did not have any underground or overhead water reservoir or tank; those who complained
of low pressure or inadequate supply tended to be those with neither underground nor
overhead tanks; 78 percent of households in the core area could not say that their water
quality was good; they mostly said that the piped supply water was "unclean" or "dirty";
with a few exceptions, respondents in fringe areas currently spent nothing on water.
Nonetheless, almost all expressed their willingness to get piped connections in their
houses; they expressed their willingness to pay specific amounts mentioned as connection
charge (Taka 500) and monthly tariff (Taka 80); in making general comments about
water issues, core area respondents emphasized the iron problem more than others; and in
the extended area, there was an expressed interest in increased supply. In fringe areas the
emphasis was on obtaining arsenic-safe water.

Health-related findings

The project supported a large-scale training of healthcare providers by the Bangladesh
Medical Association in 2004. A change occurred around 2003, when the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare took over all responsibility for health services to arsenicosis
patients; so BAMWSP did not have any formal obligations to them beyond the provision
of safe water sources. The results of the project-sponsored training were not investigated
in depth. The evaluation team's health-related findings, in brief, are:

(a) Trained doctors and health workers were not deployed by the Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare to upazila health centers in any rational or consistent manner, in relation
to arsenic-related health problems.

(b) The governmental health service was not actively identifying, confirming, or
managing arsenicosis cases in most upazilas visited by the evaluation team. The
exceptions were Hajiganj, where records were maintained and field staff had been trained
for some time; and Raipur and Gournadi, where the health complexes had recently
arranged arsenicosis training and begun to rescreen the population in search of patients.

(c) There was no coordination or communication between BAMWSP and the
governmental health services in the areas visited.

(d) Of 616 respondents to the household survey, 1.5 percent (9 respondents) reported
having at least one arsenicosis patient in the home. Another 2.1 percent said there was at
least one such patient among their neighbors.

(e) A good number of patients were found to lack access to both safe water and health
services. Two visited villages known to have large numbers of arsenicosis cases had
received no project safe water options. Nor were the patients recognized by the respective
upazila health complexes.

(f) Neither patients nor other community people knew much about where to go for
diagnosis and treatment of arsenic-related illnesses.

(g) A great many patients were yet to be identified by the responsible health authorities.

(h) The government's health service was actually keeping its records properly and health
field staff were knowledgeable about the symptoms of arsenicosis.


                                             41

Key conclusions and lessons learned

(a) The alternative options distribution and installation procedures of BAMWSP in the
DPHE have been more successful technically than the normal DPHE procedures. Giving
local people some control over materials and quality of work enhances technical quality.

(b) Screening data on populations and risk factors (contamination of shallow tubewells)
have been organized through NAMIC in a way that could easily support rational planning
of mitigation work.

(c) Awareness raising activity is never finished. It should be a continuous process.

(d) Ward-based planning may improve if it is implemented in a less centralized manner;
provided with enough time for adequate communication and information dissemination;
and organized as part of a well-structured, widely understood system of resource
distribution.

(e) In a demand-driven approach, demand among some of the highest-risk sectors of the
population must be developed. Due to the late full-scale start of mitigation activities,
BAMWSP did not have sufficient time to build such demand or to more strongly
mobilize disadvantaged community residents.

(f) The project introduced a number of new procedures, giving local leaders (union
parishad chairpersons) primary responsibilities. Many leaders, however, took a long time
to understand the project and extract benefits from it for their people. Leaders need time
to learn, and they need even more time to communicate with their constituents. This type
of process is slower than the purely top-down, technically driven processes more familiar
in the Bangladesh context; but it probably produces more beneficiary satisfaction in the
long run. The central role of the union parishad chairpersons in this project has produced
mostly positive results. The project experience shows, however, that in any program
managed by locally elected leaders, it is necessary to ensure that public services are made
available on an equitable basis to the population. Leaders must take responsibility to
conduct business according to certain guidelines, and to distribute benefits to the whole
population. Monitoring is essential.

(g) Rushed work as the project's end approached resulted in some unfinished installations
and in some groups not getting options despite having paid money and started the
application process. This was mitigated by moving implementation of these options to the
follow-on BWSPP.

(h) The changes in project cost share requirements and other requirements, while done for
understandable reasons, have been generally confusing to rural people. Any national-
scale project such as this one must be conducted in a highly clear and consistent manner,
with similar rules for all. Indeed, the whole country should have some uniform pricing
standards, to avoid confusion and unnecessary competition that might hinder acceptance
of new domestic water options and opportunities.

(i) The future emphasis on piped supply schemes is based on some interesting
assumptions and research findings. As rural schemes are developed on a pilot basis in the
follow-on BWSPP, some important issues that will require close attention are delivery of
services, cost recovery, and long-term implementation.



                                             42

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
In the context of the Intensive Learning ICR, a BAMWSP stakeholder workshop was
held on 21 June 2006 at the Spectra Convention Center, Gulshan-1, Dhaka. The
workshop was attended by union parishad chairpersons, representatives of the
community-based organizations, a few women members of the community-based
organizations, officials from the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives, PMU head office and regional staff, DPHE headquarters staff, and
representatives of UNICEF, SDC, the World Bank and the World Health Organization.

The project director welcomed everyone to the workshop, and gave a summary of the
achievements of the project. These included:

    · Screening over 3 million tubewells, both public and private

    · Making people aware of the arsenic problem

    · Providing mitigation options in more than 60 upazilas through the innovative
        approach of giving money to union parishad chairpersons and involving local
        people in construction

    · Carrying out emergency mitigation, mostly through provision of dug wells, which
        were not successful because of poor water quality

    · Maintaining high standards of technical quality in deep tubewell installations

    · Introducing a management innovation through which, for the first time, the DPHE
        involved local leaders and union parishad chairpersons in planning and
        implementation ("Management is what matters")

    · Training of doctors and health workers through financial support to the
        Bangladesh Medical Association

    · Modernizing and establishing laboratories where water samples can be tested
        properly

    · Helping the central laboratory of the Bangladesh Council for Scientific and
        Industrial Research to acquire new equipment

    · Upgrading the Chapai Nawabganj municipal piped water supply system

    · Carrying out groundwater surveys

    · Establishing NAMIC as a uniquely comprehensive central source of information

    · Streamlining the management system of BAMWSP.

The World Bank task team leader gave an overview of the project's activities,
emphasizing the overall goal of the project, namely "To reduce mortality and morbidity
in rural and urban populations caused by arsenic contamination of Bangladesh's
groundwater". Three types of activities have been conducted in order to achieve this end:

    · On-site arsenic mitigation in rural and urban areas

    · Improved understanding of the arsenic problem

    · Strengthening of implementation capacity



                                            43

The task team leader posed the following questions for discussion by the participants:

    · Has BAMWSP reached its objectives?

    · Has it contributed to better understanding of arsenic?

    · Has it strengthened capacity?

    · Has its on-site mitigation activities been successful?

    · What has been learned?

The field survey evaluation team summarized its preliminary findings and presented its
recommendations. Some observations and recommendations that stimulated discussion
were:

    · Maintaining a good technical standard by including local people in material
       selection and site supervision

    · The valuable contribution of this project in strengthening local government
       institutions

    · A recommendation to increase the role of NGOs by engaging them for at least one
       year and working in a spirit of partnership

    · Poor coordination between BAMWSP and the Ministry of Health

    · The project has not provided safe water options evenly in the targeted
       populations; specifically, poor households have been bypassed

    · Inadequate services for arsenicosis patients in the upazilas visited

    · Poor transparency in BAMWSP processes and poor maintenance of project files.

Ministry participant

The Deputy Chief, Ministry of Planning, who has had a longstanding involvement with
the project, said that BAMWSP was considered by most people in government to have
been a failed project for its first three or four years. He said that performance improved
rapidly after responsibility was transferred from directly under the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives into the DPHE, and after the present
project director was posted. He emphasized the importance of using projects such as this
one to strengthen local government institutions.

Union parishad chairpersons, community-based and support organizations, NGOs

Eight union parishad chairpersons made comments. All were pleased at having been
given important responsibilities by the project. Most said that it had taken some time for
them and their constituents to understand the nature of the project and its potential
benefits, so they did not move as quickly as they might have. All of them said that the
numbers of deep tubewells provided was hardly sufficient to meet demand. Their union
populations were not adequately covered.




                                               44

A couple mentioned problems with local expectations not being met, or many households
having deposited money in the required bank accounts but not having received any safe
water options due to the closing of the project.

Some expressed the view that the NGO work could just as easily have been done by
union parishad people. One said the NGO work in his union was entirely unsatisfactory
and caused people to mistrust the whole project. This issue of the proper role of the
NGOs, or whether NGOs were necessary or not, was hotly debated in the discussion
period. One of the NGO representatives argued that NGOs deserve appreciation for
usually supporting local government institutions (union parishads) more than
governmental agencies do.

There were a few complaints from participants (both NGOs and union parishad
chairpersons) about bureaucratic procedures, delays, and problems with delayed
payments.

One NGO that is setting up a rural piped supply system said that people would prefer the
new piped supply systems to handpump tubewells.

The representative of the Environmental Health Unit of the World Health Organization
(WHO) stated that the only way to reduce morbidity and mortality related to arsenicosis
was to provide arsenic-safe water to the population. These were ambitious objectives.
The impact of BAMSWP on health indicators may only be seen in a few years and people
may have to be rescreened.

Conclusions

World Bank

BAMWSP was a complex project that involved multidisciplinary approaches. The
evaluation study suggests that a major part of the outputs was achieved; yet about US$6
million of the available grant will be canceled. Some reasons for weaknesses in
BAMWSP have been the slow implementation due to bureaucratic problems, and the
differences between the DPHE and BAMWSP. This project has seen major
improvements after the restructuring: capacity building and technology development have
occurred in this project; local government assumed monitoring responsibility; and well
screening was carried out effectively with the help of ward members and union parishad
chairpersons. Arsenic mitigation is not just a technical issue; it is in fact more an
institutional issue. Participants were encouraged to learn from this project's experience
and use the lessons to improve approaches in future work.

Project Management Unit

The project director challenged the evaluation team's statement that transparency was
weak in BAMWSP. Use of community bank accounts fostered transparency, he argued.
Although certain difficulties overshadowed his efforts at times, he did his best to make
this a transparent project. The project director thanked all participants and invited them to
a festive lunch.




                                              45

  Annex 7. Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




   Borrowers' Implementation Completion and Results
                                   Report (ICR)

          Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP)
                  Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE)
                 Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh

1.  Introduction:
    Bangladesh achieved tremendous success in rural water supply with the assistance
    from different donors agencies, and bilateral agreements with donor countries
    between 1980 and 1995. About 97% rural population had their access to safe water
    through hand tubewells during this period. Ground water is the principle source of
    water supply in Bangladesh. But suddenly in 1993 arsenic contamination in ground
    water was detected first at Chapai Nawabganj district. Afterwards DPHE conducted
    water analysis from tubewells from different western districts of the country. Arsenic
    contamination in ground water was found almost in all districts. In 1997 British
    Geological Survey, with the assistance from DFID initiated a survey on ground water
    quality in Bangladesh and published its report in 1999. The study revealed that the
    shallow aquifer of ground water in entire Bangladesh was affected by arsenic
    contamination. As a result the coverage of safe water came down to 75% from 97%.

    To address the arsenic problem in the country and to ensure the safe water for the
    people the Government of Bangladesh took the project styled as "Bangladesh Arsenic
    Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP) in 1998 with a credit from the World
    Bank (WB) and grant from SDC. The WB provided US $ 32.4 million for the project,
    and SDC contributed US$3.0 million to the project as co-financing.

2.  Objectives:

2.1 The overall objective of the project was to reduce mortality and morbidity in rural and
    urban population caused by arsenic contamination of ground water within sustainable
    water supply, health and water management strategies. This Project is the first phase
    of long-term effort to mitigate the impact of naturally occurring arsenic contamination
    of ground water.

    Project consists of following components (a) On-site Mitigation, (b) Improved
    Understanding of the Arsenic Problem and (c) Strengthening of Implementation
    Capacity.


                                            46

   The specific objectives were as follows:
       (i) Identifying the causes of arsenic contamination through exhaustive surveys of
       tube wells, and in-depth assessment of the extent of arsenic contamination of
       water sources and developing an improved data management system;
       (ii) Identification of alternate sources and development of a range of affordable
       technological options and levels of service for long term and sustainable solution;
       (iii) Construction, rehabilitation and augmentation of water supply and sanitation
       schemes including emergency activities needed to mitigate arsenic free
       community water supply;
       (iv) Awareness building on arsenic hazard & hygiene education on environmental
       sanitation;
       (v) Development, testing, and scaling up of decentralized, community based, cost
       effective, and demand responsive institutional mechanisms for water supply
       service delivery;
       (vi) Capacity building at community level, at the levels of Union Parishad, and
       Municipality and various stakeholders, Government agencies and Support
       Organizations;
       (vii) Preparation of detailed proposals for a national rural and urban water and
       sanitation program for arsenic mitigation based on lessons learnt for the
       subsequent phases of investment;
       (viii) Creating employment opportunities at the grass root level and to promote
       private initiative in the sector development;
       (ix) Set up of National Arsenic Committee, Secretaries Committee, National
       Expert Committee and Project Steering Committee to oversee and promote
       project activities. Set up of Ward, Union, Upazila & District Arsenic Mitigation
       Committees to supervise project activities at their terrains.
       (x) Partnership building up with DGHS, GSB, and BCSIR etc. to address arsenic
       related multi-sectoral issues.

3. Funding Arrangements, Financial Performance and Project Implementation
   Timeline:
   The Project was originally designed for fifteen years from 1998 onwards. Initially the
   project was started in July 1998 and supposed to be completed in June 2001. It was
   revised and extended up to June 2002. Because of many practical reasons, specially
   different implementation modalities the project implementation could not be
   completed with in the stipulated period. As a result the project was extended up to
   June 2006.

   BAMWSP Implementation Completion Report Project Cost by component (US
                                          $ million)
                                            Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
         Project Cost Component           Estimated US Estimated US      Appraisal
                                            $ million     $ million
   1. On site mitigation :                       26.10        11.731            44.95
   2. Improved Understanding of the
   Arsenic Problem :                              3.80        11.712           308.21

   3. Strengthening of
   Implementation Capacity :                     14.50          4.959           34.20
   Project Total                                 44.40          28.40
   Percentage of total                                                          63.96


                                             47

   Note: Total expenditure of the Project is BDT 1681.183 million. Among the total
   expenditure of the project the expenditure under IDA is BDT 1370.764 million
   (including RPA & DPA), under SDC BDT 10.498 million, under GoB BDT 212.401
   million and under Community BDT 87.52 million respectively.
   As per client connection the (historical) disbursement made under IDA shown US
   $ 23.160 million and under SDC the disbursement is US $ 0.207

   Using the conversion rate as per last revised PP of BAMWSP We use the conversion
   rate as 1 US $ = BDT 58.00 the GoB expenditure stands at US $ 3.66 million and
   community US $ 1.51 million. As per PAD the allocation kept in GoB is 4.9 and in
   Other (Community) is US $ 4.10 million. Considering the allocation of PAD the uses
   of GoB funds is stand as 74.69% and in Community fund 36.83% respectively.

4. Assessment of Project Design and Implementation:
   BAMWSP launched a drive to mitigate the arsenic crisis from the very early stage of
   its implementation. After experiencing lesson from five years of its implementation,
   some new concepts (on Program Approach & Implementation Mechanism) were
   developed; this project will directly deal with water supply and sanitation sector and
   support other relevant government agencies to address multi-sectoral arsenic related
   issues. Partnership approach will be developed with i) Ministry of Health for health
   treatment of patient, ii) GSB-BWDB for ground water investigation, iii) ITN for R &
   D and technical matters, iv) BCSIR for Technology verification issues, v)
   Unicef/Ministry of Information for communication and vi) Others as and when
   required. Besides, restructured approach will be brought to project implementation, in
   which the technical strengths of DPHE will be combined with community-based
   planning and implementation of water-supply schemes; Village piped water supply
   schemes will be added with the range of options available in the CAP; urban
   pourshava piped water supply is included, NGO, private sector organization or local
   government institution may act as potential SO, who will provide support to the
   project in CBO formation, scheme preparation and complete implementation; and (iv)
   Short-term & long-term infrastructure development works will be initiated in Chapai
   Nawabganj.

   The project commenced with three main components: (1) On site mitigation, (2)
   Improved understanding of the Arsenic Problem, and (3) Strengthening of
   Implementation Capacity. Field activities were identified as Screening, Community
   Development & Mitigation (under new concept preparation of Community Action
   Plan) and implementation of sub-project (or CAP or scheme). Field Activities under
   Screening Program includes: (i) identification of arsenic affected tubewells (including
   the extent of arsenic contamination); (ii) primarily identification of arsenic affected
   persons; and (iii) awareness creation in the community. Field Activities under
   Mitigation Program or CAP/WAP includes: (i) Formation & Capacity building of
   Community Based Organization (CBO); and (ii) Developing & implementing
   Community Action Plan (CAP) through community initiatives. For implementing


                                           48

CAP, a separate account has been maintained in which the Union Parishad Chairman
is a co-signatory. BAMWSP provided final approval of the proposed scheme, and
transferred half of the 80% of the total cost (WAMWUG/WAP 90%) of the approved
grant amount to the community's account. The amount of community's contribution
was fixed in the context of the National Policy for Arsenic Mitigation. As already
established under BAMWSP, no single household may provide more than 40% of the
community's contribution, while each beneficiary must provided 2% of the
contribution, whether in cash or labor. Local Government and Communities
purchased construction materials for the options with the first installation of the fund
transferred in their bank account. The second half of the approved grant amount
transferred to the community's account once the initial trance was drawn based on
certification by DPHE engineers of satisfactory progress in construction. During the
supervision mission it was agreed that the further consideration would be given
during preparation of the revised Operational Manual to the possible establishment of
a threshold contract value above implementation of CAP, expenditure statement,
voucher/CAP documents have been kept in union parisad's office for further audit.

Beside the normal mitigation, immediate emergency relief intervention was provided
to the community in villages where more than 80% of households lacked access to
arsenic safe water. On emergency basis, mitigation options one per 50 families were
provided in those villages where there was no nearby alternate water sources. A rapid
assessment was done in consultation with the local government entities and the
communities, to select suitable technological options. Water sources installed at the
community level in public places and public places authorities will bear the operation
and maintenance cost.

Project design and its implementation procedures was appropriate in the context it
was designed/prepared. The PP was revised and extended three times. The original
PP was from July 1998 to June 2001. It was later revised and extended up to June
2007.

Cost sharing of option installation by the community       should be at par with other
donors, NGOs etc. to avoid confusion

Modality of the project was appropriate provided the intervention period was longer,
one year. The community would then have been able to vividly understand the
process and procedures of their involvement in getting not only the option but also
of its O and M. Local government along with community would be able to think
about the fund generation and its utilization especially for O and M. The decision of
the community along with the Local government would have been strengthened. In
the field the process had to be "rushed" under this project design.




                                         49

5. Assessment of objectives:

   Achievement of outcomes against the objectives:

  · Ex-post evaluation is yet to be conducted by a third party in the project
     implementation areas. However, mortality rate arising out of arsenicosis has been
     reduced to a large extent. The morbidity rate was also found very low for the same
     reason. People of the project areas are very much aware of the adverse impact of
     arsenic poisoning. They are using arsenic-safe water from alternative sources. This
     outcome is very much matching with the overall objective of the project.
  · All available data were processed and analyzed at the National Arsenic Mitigation
     Information center (NAMIC). The upazila-wise data were compiled in book
     format and distributed among all relevant officials and stakeholders at central,
     regional as well as field level.
  · Alternative options for arsenic free safe water have been promoted in the affected
     areas. Deep Hand Tubewells, Dug wells, Pond Sand Filter (PSF) and Rain Water
     Harvesting System were promoted in the project areas. Cost effective and
     affordable alternative water sources were identified, including deep tubewells, dug
     wells, pond sand filters and rainwater harvesting. Due to the incidence of iron and
     odor, the dug well and pond sand filter options were not popular. The deep
     tubewell was recognized as the safest alternative for arsenic-safe water supply.
  · Chapi Nawabganj water supply system was upgraded and the town has a arsenic-
     safe water supply. In addition, the coverage area has been expanded, and the
     financial reforms have improved sustainability of the service.
  · Massive awareness campaign was launched using all form of media to make
     people aware of the adverse impacts of arsenic contamination and importance of
     the use of arsenic free safe source of water. People of the country are now fully
     aware of the arsenic problem and need for safe drinking water.
  · The project has successfully decentralized community-based water supply delivery
     using a demand-based approach. The capacities of communities to undertake
     construction of preferred facilities has been achieved. In addition, sustainability
     has improved because of community cost-sharing of capital and O&M costs. The
     local governments have been strengthened through involvement of the Union
     Parishad Chairmen, who assuming a key role.
  · The capacity of the local government has been developed to use it in further
     program.
  · Through implementation of BAMWSP many important lessons have been learnt.
     These lessons have helped much to take actions on preparation of new projects on
     Water supply. Bangladesh Water Supply Program Project is a unique example of
     the follow-up activity. The new project has been designed based on the lessons
     learnt of BAMWSP project.
  · The overall capacities of DPHE laboratory facilities have been increased.
  · For screening of tubewells and installation of mitigation activities a large number
     of grass root level people were engaged who earned their livelihood from
     BAMWSP activities.



                                          50

· All these committees were involved in the project activities in the form of
    providing guidance, implementation and direct supervision of work. All these
    committees were involved in the project activities in the form of providing
    guidance, implementation and direct supervision of work.
· Capacity of 2,300 physicians and 12,599 health workers in 229 upazillas has been
    developed through providing training to address arsenicosis patients.

Achievement of Outputs against the objectives:

· A total of 3.04 million tubewells were screened in 190 upazillas throughout the
    country covering more than 50.45 million populations. About 9.44 million
    households were surveyed during screening of tubewells. (Initially the number of
    upazila was 189. But a new upazila as Mujibnagar was emerged after demarking
    the Meherpur sadar upazila in Meherpur district and as a result the number of
    upazila rose to 190 from 189).
· Of the total 9,977 different types of options installed are: 9,272 Deep Hand
    Tubewells, 393 Dug wells, 12 Pond Sand Filter and 300 Rain Water Harvesting
    System. 1,008 villages covered providing arsenic-safe water to about 1.7 million
    (16,10,080) people of 322,016 households.
· Calculation of items under options installed is based on "served". Villages, unions,
    CBOs, WAMWUG and household are calculated based on options installed and
    serving. The number of population was based on 5.5 members per family. The
    household that are using installed options are counted.
· RWH is family based. PSF serves and covers the geographical area of the pond
    easily communicable to the user, around 75 HHs. DW serves easy communicable
    distance to users and a range of 20-25 HHs. DTW serves 10-15 HHs, under 17
    upazila and in 6 and 35 upazilas ranging from 40-80 HHs because of project
    modality.
· Chapainawabganj water supply system has been renovated and expanded to
    improve the water supply status with the installation of 2 (two) nos of Surface
    Water Infiltration System (SWIS) well at the bank of the river Mohananda. The
    old production tubewells have been regenerated and pipe network has been
    extended. The overhead tank has been also brought into service by repair and
    renovation. The number of street hydrant has been increased with repair of the
    existing ones. All old production tubewells have been provided with new pumps.
    People of the town are now getting improved services
· A total of 4,549 CBOs and 477 WAMWUGS were served.
· Four zonal laboratories upgraded and 5 new laboratories constructed, thus
    increasing DPHE capacity for water quality monitoring.

DTW is recognized as the "safest" option in the community after the detection of
arsenic in the wells. DTW is a well accepted and affordable option in the community.
It is because the community is familiar with DTW as an easy operating system. The
beneficiary cost is affordable.




                                         51

   Reference to surface water (river, pond, etc) as mentioned in the NAMP, the
   community is unwilling to go back to surface water. They think it is not safe to drink
   and a hassle and burden to carry may be in many places, even from a distance. TW is
   within the community reach in most places and they have become accustomed to this
   system. In many places they collect water from TW as and when required which may
   not be the case in surface water. Even children can go and collect water from TW.

   Surface water has to be purified by boiling or using alam. Boiling means were
   collecting and or cutting wood, another hassle and time consuming. Social
   mobilization about using surface water has to be encouraged and its benefits
   propagated to the community. This activity is not possible within a short time of the
   project period (five / six months).

6. Assessment of Project Implementation:

   BAMWSP has undertaken screening of tube wells and mitigation program since
   October 1999. After the screening of tube wells and the hot spot upazilas are
   identified the mitigation activities are under taken. Hot spot upazilas were unions in
   which more than 40% and 60 % respectively in phases of households were found not
   to have access to arsenic safe water. The objective of the arsenic mitigation was to
   harness the potential of the hot spot communities and local government institutions to
   deal with the problem of arsenic safe water supply.

   In the first phase of the mitigation in five upazilas local Support Organizations (SO)
   were involved in the process of carrying out mitigation works. During this phase, it
   was noted that the local government institutions were not adequately involved,
   resulting in lack of community ownership of the activities. Consequently, a revised
   approach was tested in one location, in which Members of the Union Parishad, Ward
   Members and Upazila administration were more directly involved.

   A demand driven approach was adopted to mobilize local resources at the community
   level for cost sharing; 20% contribution from community was deposited at the CBO
   account.

   Under the five upazila mitigation program all types of options were installed, like
   dugwell, deep tubewell and PSF.

   As a result, the Local Government Division and BAMWSP restructured arrangements
   for screening in the subsequent phase covering 35 upazilas. To assist in the
   implementation of the revised approach, the Government issued a circular requiring
   the formation of Arsenic Committees at Ward, Union, Upazila and Zila levels.

   Drawing on the recommendations and experience arising from prior phases,
   BAMWSP intended to contract SOs to help build the capacity of communities and
   local government institutions to respond to the arsenic crisis through awareness
   raising, training and management of arsenic mitigation activities in hot spot upazilas.

   Under this arrangement CBOs were developed in each village in the hot spot upazilas.
   This process required capacity building of Local Government entities and CBOs



                                            52

   involvement in identifying and planning low cost options to provide sustainable
   supplies of arsenic safe water.

   A demand driven approach was adopted to mobilize local resources at the community
   level for cost sharing; 20% contribution from community. Arrangements for financial
   management, fund flow and opening of CBO bank accounts in villages are an integral
   part of the institutional development. Under the thirty five upazila mitigation program
   dugwell and deep tubewell are installed.

   Again, based on the results of the 35 upazilas mitigation program the previous
   approach will be further modified not only to expedite the process but also to
   streamline the financial process with emphasis on involving Union Parishad more
   vigorously.

   To assist in the implementation of the modified approach, the Government issued a
   circular requiring the formation of Arsenic Committees at Ward, Union, Upazila and
   Zila levels.

   Drawing on the recommendations and experience arising from prior phases,
   BAMWSP now intends in the 17 upazilas community development and arsenic
   mitigation program to help build the capacity of communities and local government
   institutions to respond to the arsenic crisis through awareness raising, training and
   management of arsenic mitigation activities in hot spot unions. Here, hot spot is
   defined as 60% contamination of ground water sources were detected, not to have
   access to arsenic safe drinking water.

   To assist in this process SOs were be engaged to manage locally to help build the
   capacity of communities and local government institutions to respond to the arsenic
   crisis through awareness raising, training and management of arsenic mitigation
   activities in hot spot Unions. Ward arsenic mitigation water user group (WAMWUG)
   were developed in each ward of the hot spot unions

   A demand driven approach will be adopted to mobilize local resources at the
   community level for cost sharing; 10% contribution from community. Arrangements
   for financial management, fund flow and opening of WAMWUG bank accounts ward
   wise became an integral part of the institutional development

    Under the 17 upazila mitigation program deep tubewell were installed

   In unions where more than 80% of households lack access to arsenic safe water,
   immediate emergency relief interventions were provided to the community in public
   places in villages as an interim arrangement. The modality was involving local
   government and community to select sites for installations of different types of
   options, namely, deep tubewell, dugwell, PSF and RWH.

7.  Major factors affecting project achievements:

7.1 Different modalities: The implementation modalities of the project were new and
   different from the usual modalities exercised by the DPHE. Normally DPHE gets
   work done by contractors. But under BAMWSP the project activities were carried out



                                            53

   by support organizations and user groups. This different process involved a signing of
   MOU between BAMWSP and UP Chairman and community head. The selection of
   NGOs for screening of tubewells was a lengthy process and it took a long time to
   complete the work. Different stakeholders like local administration, local government
   institutions and the user groups were involved in the process. Similarly the mitigation
   activities were carried out involving support organizations and users. Preparation of
    TORs and other formalities involved in the selection of NGOs/SOs was not only
    cumbersome but also lengthy. But ultimately the project activities were successfully
    implemented as planned in the project document. This is also an important lesson
    learnt as how the community is involved in the development work.

7.2 Institutional arrangement of PMU independent of the DPHE: PMU itself has no
    manpower and office set up at the grass root level. So, it was difficult to participate in
    the community mobilization and ensure coordination of work. It was also not possible
    to provide manpower and establish office set up at local level under the available
    arrangement. But DPHE has network up to union level across the country. So,
    initiative had been taken to utilize the institutional arrangement of DPHE.

7.3 Changes in the management: Frequent changes in the top management of the project
    delayed project implementation. Lack of efficient management also slowed down
    project progress. Timely support of logistics and transport delayed the
    implementation process.

7.4 Absence of long-term planning: The presence of long-term planning is congenial to
    effective and speedy implementation of any project. The long term planning was
    lacking. As a result the project activities were undertaken and implemented on casual
    basis in absence of preplanned objectives and targets.

8.  Evaluation of performance by the WB, co-financers and other partners:

8.1 The WB's role in assisting BAMWSP: In the initial period of the implementation
    there were changes in the management of the project from the Bank's side. This
    slowed the progress of the project. The Bank's role in implementing the project is
    laudable. Since inception of the project the Bank monitored the progress and
    problems of the project. But, in the initial period of the project it was a trial and error
    method for the WB itself. Supervision Mission in every 2-3 months helped very much
    implement the activities. The Bank was flexible enough to adapt to situations and
    decisions of Bank were well taken by the Government.

8.2 Technical collaboration provided by the WB: The WB provided technical support in
    implementing the project activities. Particularly, observation and suggestions made
    during supervision missions largely helped improving the pace of activities.

8.3 Quality of WB assistance and analytical advisory services: The Bank's assistance for
    the last few years is of highest degree and the service rendered by the Bank was
    congenial to the smooth implementation of the project.




                                              54

8.4 WB's interaction with other donors: The Bank interacted not only with the GoB but
   also with other donors like Unicef, WHO, Danida and NGOs like Dhaka Community
   Hospital, RDA Bogra and other development partners in connection with
   implementation of the project.

8.5 Monitoring by the WB: Bank intensively monitored the project activities and resolved
   issues that hampered the progress of the project promptly.

8.6 The WB's processing of trance release, waivers or modification of conditions, delay
   or complications: Everything was positive from the Bank side. The project was to be
   closed two years back because of poor performance. The Bank agreed to extend the
   project for another two years and provided all sorts of assistance to the project
   management. This is why the complete implementation of the project has been
   possible

9. Evaluation of borrower's performances:

9.1 Arrangement for monitoring implementation: The project implementation was
   regularly monitored by the Local Government Division every month. The monthly
   progress report of the project was reviewed in the monthly coordination meetings
   chaired by the Hon'ble Minister of LGRD & Cooperatives or the Secretary of the
   LGD. Besides, the Steering Committee reviewed the progress and problems of the
   project in every 3-4 month. This committee is also headed by the Secretary of LGD.

9.2 Impacts: The overall impact of the project implementation is positive. Through this
   project the entire people of the country have understood the problem of arsenic
   contamination and its adverse impacts. They have been aware of the safe water from
   the alternative options. A large number of the arsenic affected people have been
   served from installation of 9,977 options. The people of Chapainawabganj
   pourashava are now getting arsenic free safe water through this project. The
   strengthening of DPHE laboratory and the new construction of five laboratories have
   definitely enhanced the capacity of DPHE for monitoring water quality.

9.3 Implementation of actions and decisions agreed-upon in the Loan Agreement:
   Implementation was made as agreed upon.

9.4 Review of agreed actions: Review was done in the wrap up meetings of the Bank's
    mission each time held at the Local Government Division.

9.5 Review of the WB funded procurement: Procurement was reviewed by the Bank in
    different times and it was found satisfactory in general. But in some cases it was rated
    as marginally satisfactory.

10. Lessons learnt and recommended actions: Many lessons were learnt through
    implementation of the project. Some of the key lessons are as follows-




                                            55

    1. A project with different modalities can be implemented if management is active
       and dedicated.
    2. Project can be implemented with the involvement of the community.
    3. The community (CBO, WAMWUG) itself can take up implementation work if
       guided by the project management.

11. Sustainability
   Arsenic safe water provided by installation of DTW to the community is sustainable.
   Regular arsenic testing, may be, along with other toxic element/s by the community is
   a question, because of the generation of fund by the community. Social mobilization
   for awareness of regular testing of water has not been focused enough because if time
   constraint. Though O&M of the DTW is an important factor it is unknown how this
   will be carried out under this local government modality.




                                            56

                       Bangladesh Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP)
                   Intensive Learning Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR)

                                               Comments on the ICR

Reference                  Statements in ICR                                        BAMWSP Remark
Item-C: Ratings
Summary
C .1 Performance rating    ICR rated the performance as               Aide Memoire of June 2005 reflects that the
by ICR at page i           moderately satisfactory.                   performance is satisfactory.
                           Borrower Performance has been rated
                           as moderately satisfactory.

C.2 Detailed Ratings of    Overall Borrower Performance has
Bank and Borrower          been rated moderately satisfactory.
Performance (by ICR) at
page i
PDO Indicator 1:           (a) Screening done in about 3.04 m         The number of production wells that were
Coverage of sustainable    wells in 190 Upazilas and 400              screened is 390 Not 400.
safe water supply. Page    production wells in 100 Pourshavas.
iii.
PDO Indicator 3:           (b) 2330 doctors and 12590 health          The figures should be changed to
Treatment of arsenicosis   workers were trained                       2300 physicians and 12599 health workers
patients. Page iv.                                                    trained by BAMWSP.



Intermediate Outcome       (a)Covered: 130 villages in Phase 1;       (a) BAMWSP has covered
Indicator 2: Arsenic ­     1026 villages in Phase 2; and 660          122 villages in Phase 1 instead of 130 villages.
safe drinking water        villages in Phase 3.
coverage in 4000 villages                                             (b) BAMWSP has installed
at Page v.                 (b) 9270 deep tube wells.                  9272 deep tube wells.

Intermediate Outcome       (a) Local stakeholder capacity             (a)Local stakeholder capacity increased
Indicator 3:               increased through 4123 community           through 4331 community action plans.
Implementation capacity    action plans.
strengthened at page v.
1.4: Revised               Following adjustment of the 4000
Beneficiaries at page 6.   village target, project benefits accrued
para 1: Number of          to between 2 million and 2.5 million
beneficiaries.             people through implementation of           The numbers of mitigation option is 9977 in
                           about 10,000 mitigation option in 1800     place of 10,000 and number of villages is 1008
                           villages and wards, and in one             in place of 1800
                           Pourshava which would not have been
                           possible if the 4000 village target had
                           been pursed. Other beneficiaries
                           remain unchanged.
                                                                      This should be noted that the well screening
para 2: Nation wide well   the British Geological Survey, which       program was carried out under Grid Pattern
screening program by       carried out a nation wide well             except Chittogonj and four Hill Tracts to
British Geological         screening programme before the start       assess the arsenic contamination levels by not
Survey.                    of the project                             only BGS but also DPHE and GSB.
Section 2.1: Design        The beneficiary assessment observed        Criteria targeting relation to arsenic
criteria at page 9         that intervention on this basis had little concentration levels, population density, or the
                           relation to arsenic concentration levels,  number of arsenicosis patients as set by the



                                                    57

                         population density, or the number of      World Bank was followed for implementation
                         arsenicosis patients.                     of the project activities and achievements that
                         The ICR review further believes that      were made led to
                         the criteria adopted in the project       the ICR review to conclude that the criteria
                         contributed to enhancing the outcome.     adopted in the project contributed to
                                                                   enhancing the outcome
Section 2.1: Adequacy of Following well screening, women were      After the well screening, the community as a
participatory process:   informed of the unsafe wells that they    whole were informed that includes both men
Para 1at Page 11         may be avoided.                           and women.
Section 2.3: Monitoring  In addition, the key activity of water    In fact, the key activity of water quality
and Evaluation Design,   quality monitoring in deep tube wells     monitoring in deep tube wells were carried out
Implementation and       was carried out under the auspices of     by PMU and data was recorded in NAMIC.
Utilization: Water       NAMIC.
quality monitoring and
record keeping in Para 1 The beneficiary assessment also notes     The beneficiary assessment was carried out in
at Page 13,              that the monitoring and evaluation of     March ­April 2006, when the project was
                         project achievements did not receive      trying to rush the activities to come to a close.
                         much attention from PMU, and that         Full documents and records are now in place.
                         records were not maintained in a
                         consistent manner.
Section 2.4: Procurement Findings on procurement                   It may be mentioned that there were no
at page 15               administration by the PMU on post         frequent turn over in procurement section in
                         reviews conducted on a number of          BAMWSP.
                         contracts were: (a) in general, the
                         procurement capacity of the project
                         staff for the types of contracts
                         processed was weak; (b) the frequent
                         turn over of procurement staff was
                         reflected in variations in the quality of
                         procurement processing.
Section 2.5: Post        The works of BAMWSP not completed         In fact the number of option to be transferred
completion operation     by project closure ­ about 600 ward       is over 600 under CAPs and WAPs.
/Next Phase: transfer of action plans for which the MOUs had
works from BAMWSP to     been signed, water quality testing of     Water quality testing is being undertaken from
BWSPP at page 15.        new deep tube wells , measurement of      BWSPP.
                         GPS coordinates of the tube wells,
                         building a GPS ­ based deep ground        Rural piped water supply schemes of
                         water quality data base, further testing  BAMWSP were transferred to BWSPP.
                         of surface water infiltration schemes,
                         implementation of the ten pilot rural
                         piped water supply projects, and
                         follow ­up to the completed pilot rural
                         pipe water supply project ­have all
                         been transferred to the BWSPP.
Section- 3.5 Overarching Participation of women in the             In general both the signatories were men. But
Themes, Other Outcomes   community ­based organizatio              in a few cases, women were joint signatories.
and Impacts at page 22   ns occurred, as one of the two joint
                         signatories for the community bank
                         account was a woman.
Section 3.6(k):          On the health aspects, there was no       Coordination was there till the time the health
coordination on health   coordination between BAMWSP and           component was included in BAMWSP while
issues between           government health services; a few         physicians and health workers were trained
BAMWSP and               villages having a high concentration of   and patients were sent for referral. Later on the
government at page 24.   arsenicosis patients did not receive      health component was dropped from
                         arsenic- safe water; trained doctors      BAMWSP. However, the issue may be taken
                         were not always posted in upazilas        up by the Health Ministry.


                                                  58

                           with arsenicosis patients; and neither
                           the patients nor the community knew
                           where to go for treatment of arsenic-
                           related illnesses.
Annex 1: Project Costs     Financing:                              Actual/Latest Estimate (USD)
and Financing at page 32   Actual/Latest Estimate (USD)            GOB 3.66
                           GOB 1.75                                Other (community)1.51
                           Other (community)1.48

                           Percentage of Appraisal                 Percentage of Appraisal
                           GOB 35.71                               GOB 74.69
                           Other (community) 36.09                 Other (community) 36.83

                                                                   (Considering the conversion rate
                                                                   1US $=Tk 58.00 as per last Revised PP of
                                                                   BAMWSP)
Page 33,                   In total, 9975 mitigation options for   9977 mitigation options for non piped water
Annex 2. Outputs by        non piped water supply have been        supply have been constructed. These include
Component at page 33       constructed. These include 9270 deep    9272 deep tube wells,
                           tube wells.


Annex 5: Specific          In both phase 2 and phase 3, around     The system was to deposit community's
findings: Over payment     half of all deep tube well recipients   money in a bank account where project's grant
by tube well recipients at reported paying more than the           money is also transferred to make entire
page 43                    officially required cost share amounts. money available for spending by CBO that
                                                                   leaves no scope for receiving money from
                                                                   CBO. However, in consideration of this
                                                                   finding, measures taken to prevent such issue
                                                                   in BWSPP.




                                                    59

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) comments on Draft ICR, received on May
15, 2007:

Between 1998 and 2005, the SDC was involved in major discussions with the BAMWSP
team with regards to project implementation. This was extremely useful to SDC as it
contributed to create cross-links to SDC's own Water and Sanitation programme mainly
implemented by NGOs.

A general conclusion to the overall programme is that the institutional set-up of
BAMWSP was complex which hampered easy decision-making at the project director's
level. Nevertheless, important steps could be made to develop nation-wide arsenic
mitigation strategies.

Unfortunately, the technical assistance budget foreseen by SDC for BAMWSP was
underutilised. After three extensions, SDC decided not to further extend its contribution
as the SDC cooperation strategy planned for a phasing-out of the Water and Sanitation
sector. SDC's decision was based on the fact that meanwhile major donors had entered
the sector and could contribute more significantly to arsenic mitigation.

Department for International Development (DFID, UK) comments on BAMWSP
received during the ICR mission:

DFID recognized the significant achievements of BAMWSP: the screening of wells and
the important contribution through the NAMIC database; the awareness raising of arsenic
problems, resulting in fewer arsenicosis cases; the important contribution to developing
sustainable mitigation technologies; expanding the use of deep tubewells; and community
management of rural water supplies in Bangladesh.

DFID observed, however, that BAMWSP had less impact on the following: shaping the
Government of Bangladesh's strategies and policies on arsenic mitigation; pushing for
effective coordination between the health sectors and water supplies; changing the
DPHE's approach to one that was more demand driven; widening the delivery of research
in hydrogeology or technology; achieving accessibility by other organizations to the
NAMIC database; and collaboration with other partners.




                                            60

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Concept Note (August 1997)

2. Project Appraisal Document (August 1998)

3. Development Credit Agreement

4. Project Agreement

5. PSRs and ISRs

6. Mission Back-to-Office Reports and Aide Memoires

7. Beneficiary Assessment (by Planning Alternatives for Change, LLC)




                                         61

Maps




62

Percentage of Contaminated Wells
above the Bangladesh Standard of
      50 Micrograms/Liter

Upazila Production Wells Screened by
 Different Stakeholders Since 1998
              BAMWSP 190 Upazilas
              DANIDA 8 Upazilas
              WPP 13 Upazilas
              UNICEF 44 Upazilas
              WVI 14 Upazilas
              AAM 1 Upazila

          88°                                                            89°                                             90°                                            91°                                         92°



                                                                                                                                                                          BANGLADESH
                                               Panchagar

                                        PANCHAGAR                                                                                                  UPAZILA PRODUCTION WELLS
                                                                                                                                                           SCREENED BY BAMWSP
                           THAKURGAON
                                                           NILPHAMARI
         26°                      Thakurgaon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   26°
                                                               Nilphamari         LALMONIRHAT                                                                           UPAZILAS SCREENED (190)
                                                                                                     KURIGRAM
                                                                                          Lalmonirhat
                                                                                                      Kurigram
                                                                                                                                                                                   ARSENIC SAFE MUNICIPALITIES (86)
                                                DINAJPUR                      Rangpur

                                                                                                                                                                                   ARSENIC CONTAMINATED MUNICIPALITIES (14)
                                                     Dinajpur                  RANGPUR




                                                                                           GAIBANDHA

                                                                                          Gaibandha

                                                                 JAIPURHAT

                                                                            Jaipurhat                                     SHERPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                  Sunamganj
         25°
                                                NAOGAON                                                                                                NETRAKONA                                                                                   25°
                                                                                      BOGRA                            Sherpur                                                                                   SYLHET
                                                                                                              Jamalpur                                                               SUNAMGANJ
                                                  R A J S H A H I                                                                     MYMENSINGH
                                                                                                                                                        Netrakona                                                  Sylhet
                                                                                                              JAMALPUR                   Mymensingh
                    CHAPAI                               Naogaon                        Bogra                                                                                              S Y L H E T
               NAWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                                              I N D I A
                                                                                                                                  D H A K A
                   Chapai
             Nawabganj                      RAJSHAHI                                                                                                                                  HABIGANJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Moulavibazar
                                                               Natore                             Sirajganj
                                                                                           SIRAJGANJ                 TANGAIL                                                                            MOULAVIBAZAR
                                                Rajshahi                 NATORE                                                                              Kishorganj
                                                                                                                                                                 KISHORGANJ               Habiganj



                                                                                                                     Tangail
                                                                                  PABNA                                                  GAZIPUR


         24°                                                                                                                                    Gazipur
                                                                                     Pabna                                                                 NARSINGDI      Brahmanbaria                                                             24°

         Note: Meherpur upazila has                                                                                                                                     BRAHMANBARIA
        been divided into two upazilas:                                    Kushtia                            Manikganj                                       Narsingdi

          Meherpur and Mujibnagar.                                                                                                      DHAKA
                                                                         KUSHTIA
                                               Meherpur                                                           MANIKGANJ             DHAKA
                                                                                                                                                 NARAYANGANJ
                                          MEHERPUR                                                   Rajbari
                                                        Chuadanga
                                                                                               RAJBARI        Faridpur
                                                                          JHENAIDAH                                                                 Narayanganj

                                                CHUADANGA                   Jhenaidah                       FARIDPUR                             Munshiganj
                                                                                      Magura                                         MUNSHIGANJ

                                                                                      MAGURA                                                                                  Comilla

                                                                                                                                      SHARIYATPUR
                                                                                                                         MADARIPURShariyatpur            CHANDPUR           COMILLA
                                                                                                                                                           Chandpur
                                                                              Jessore        NARAIL                           Madaripur                                                                     KHAGRACHARI
                                                                                               Narail
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Khagrachari
                                                                         K H U L N A                        GOPALGANJ
         23°                                                                                                     Gopalganj
                                                                          JESSORE                                                                                                      Feni                                                        23°
                                                                                                                                                            LAKSMIPUR

                                                                                                                                         BARISAL               Laksmipur                 FENI                               RANGAMATI
                                                                                              Khulna
                                                                                                                                                                           NoakhaliC H I T T A G O N G
                                                               Satkhira                                                                                                 NOAKHALI
                                                                                                                     PIROJPUR
                                                                                                        Bagerhat               Jhalakati     Barisal   Bhola
                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHITTAGONG
                  I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rangamati
                                                                                                    BAGERHAT          PirojpurJHALAKATI

                                                                        SATKHIRA

                                                                                      KHULNA
                                                                                                                                        Patuakhali           BHOLA

                                                                                                                                B A R I S A L                                                     Chittagong


               This map was produced by                                                                                    BORGUNA
               the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                  Borguna                                                                                           Bandarbon
               World Bank. The boundaries,
               colors, denominations and
         22°   any other information shown
               on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                                        22°
               the part of The World Bank                                                                                            PATUAKHALI
               Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                                                      BANDARBON
               legal status of any territory,
               or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                      Bay of Bengal
               a c c e p t a n c e  o f s u c h
               boundaries.




        NEPAL                                  BHUTAN                                                                                                                                                         COX'S BAZAR



                                                     I N D I A                                                                                                                                           Cox's Bazar


                                                                                                                                                                    DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS

                            BANGLADESH                                                                                                                              DIVISION HEADQUARTERS                                               MY
                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                          DHAKA                                                                                                                                                                                           ANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                    UPAZILA BOUNDARIES
        I N D I A                                                                                                                                                   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                            21°


                                                                                           0         20        40             60 Kilometers                         DIVISION BOUNDARIES

                                                                 MY                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                   ANMAR                   0                20              40 Miles                                                                                                                   IBRD

MA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         35354
  Y                         Bay of Bengal
   2007
                                                                                                                      90°                                               91°                                          92°

BAMWSP Mitigation Activities
   by Project Phase


    Phase I (17 Upazila Program)
    Phase II (35 Upazila Program)
    Phase III (6 Upazila Program)

