Report No. 23585
Report No: I076543 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/25/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ARMENIA         Project ID: P076543
Project: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL      Task Team
Leader: Karen Grigorian
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 11, 2001 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 11, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 1.00
Managing Unit: ECSPE     Sector: KY - Other Economic Policy
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall objective of this project is to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of private sector investment and trade activity in Armenia, and
in particular to stimulate a more favorable response from private
investors to doing business in Armenia, thereby making Armenia a place
which is much more aligned to the culture and operations of private
companies and hence much more responsive in both policy and operational
terms to their needs.
The main purpose of the LIL, therefore, is to create a pilot around the
following test:
To test prospective investors and exporters responses to the establishment
of a high quality one-stop service to facilitate private sector investment
and trade. There are three closely related elements to this test:
A First, to test private sector responses to the provision of relevant
market and industry information provision, both in response to direct
company enquiries and proactively presenting information on the quality of
Armenia as a location for prospective investment through promotional
activities and missions;
A Second, to test private sector responses to the provision of a high
quality facilitation service, providing investors and exporters with
assistance with necessary permitting and licensing processes, site visits
and signposting of other relevant services and regulations required by
private investors and traders: and
A Third, to test whether the creation of a private sector focused agency
working as an intermediary between private sector clients and Government
Ministries can have a positive impact on the wider business climate and on
Government responsiveness to private investors.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
1.      Infrastructure and Skill Development:   This component will cover
staff incentives, which are intended to compensate the staff for the
incremental activities under the Project. It also includes an allowance
for technical expert support in the form of local consultants deemed



necessary to ensure the strategic direction and technical expertise
required by this project. This component also covers elements of the
project relevant to the whole Agency, namely providing transportation for
investor servicing within the country, generic staff training required by
Agency teams across all components of the project (e.g. understanding
company investment decision-making, project development, presentation and
negotiations skills, etc.), the upgrading of current (poor) ADA internet
capabilities to create a professional quality web site as a tool for
on-line investment and import/export promotion activities as well as the
implementation of a company tracking database. Most of the latter costs
will be one-off in year one.
2.      Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Exporter Servicing:
In terms of the test objectives for this LIL, the starting point for the
ADA must, as a matter of priority, be to improve its ability to respond to
and to service the needs of foreign investors and exporters which approach
it with an enquiry or an interest in investing or in exporting.     This
component of this project will therefore target efforts to improve the
quality of information, investor servicing and facilitation skills.
Specific skills training will be complemented by the development and
implementation of investor systems designed to allow the ADA to deal
professionally with its investor contacts - enquiry handling, investor
tracking, effective presentations, investor facilitation, organizing visit
programs, etc.- and high quality information to serve the needs of
investors and exporters considering expansion in Armenia.
3.     Investment and Export Promotion and Generation:
In terms of investment promotion the project will build on the ADA's
ability to professionally react to investor enquiries to develop a more
proactive approach to investment promotion, in other words it will seek to
give the ADA an effective outreach capacity. Based on focused sector
targeting studies and the creation of tailored sector marketing materials,
the ADA will receive comprehensive investment promotion training,
including outreach and follow-up techniques, and the tools and techniques
of investment promotion, e.g. cold calling, letter writing, presentations
and the organization and implementation of missions, fairs and other
events. The ADA staff would also be coached and trained in the planning
and execution of outward promotion missions to selected target markets.
In terms of its exports development, the ADA currently undertakes only
some limited match-making services for Armenian companies with aspirations
to export, but while this activity appears at face value to be a
worthwhile activity it is, in fact, adding very little value to the
economy. The main reason is that the vast majority of companies which
contact the ADA are not really "export-ready", that is to say that they
have many business development needs which must be dealt with before
exporting becomes a really viable option, e.g. production standards,
marketing capabilities, financial systems, etc. For exports, the key
challenge of this component will, therefore, be to shift the ADA's
emphasis from one-off match-making interventions (with little return) to
deeper interventions with a smaller number of companies with real market
potential to export. The capacity building work, therefore, must begin
with effective company targeting to allow the ADA to focus its scarce
resources on those sectors and companies where it can really make a
- 2-



difference. The project will necessarily commence with a substantial
skills training program, designed to bring as many of the required
business development skills as possible inside the agency, e.g.
understanding exports markets, understanding business, business
development and wider economic development skills.
This component will also involve the planning and participation in exports
missions in line with selected sector priorities, and, in years two and
three of the project, we will seek to develop both an enterprise-focused
export development scheme and a co-financed exhibition participation
scheme.
4.     Project Management:   Monitoring and Evaluation - This component
will ensure qualitative implementation and monitoring of the project by
the experienced Project Implementation Unit. The project will set out a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation plan, including a statement of all
target evaluation measures and planned monitoring, evaluation and
reporting timescales. Benchmark data will be collected at the
commencement of the project to act as baseline to gauge improvements
throughout the project life.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Yerevan, Armenia
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: There are no physical rehabilitation works or any other
construction activities which are going to be financed by the project
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A
-3-



II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
Insert page break here
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
- 4 -



Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Karen Grigorian December 10, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   December 11, 2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Samuel K. E. Otoo        January 24, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5-



