Report No. PID10802
Project Name                     Armenia-Armenia Development Agency
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           KY - Other Economic Policy
Project ID                       AMPE76543
Borrower(s)                      Government Of The Republic Of Armenia
Implementing Agency
Armenian Development Agency
Address: 17 Charentsi Str., Yerevan,
Armenia 375010
Contact Person: Mr. Vahagn Movsissian,
Director
Tel: 374-1-57-01-70, 57-56-50
Fax: 374-1-57-77-60
Email: oss@ada.am
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 28, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 17, 2001
Projected Board Date             April 11, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The learning will take place through implementation of a structured pilot
aimed at improving private sector response to business opportunities in
Armenia, by strengthening the institutional capacity of the Armenian
Development Agency to respond to its needs. Ultimately, the project's
success will feed through into improved economic performance by Armenia,
specifically in terms of increased investment and exports levels, with
related improvements in terms of both jobs and income. Improvements in
these areas will be a clear indicator of an improved private sector
response to the project. This impact can be captured by measures increase
in investment and trade, and by measures of the employment and income
flowing from this ???investment and trade activities???The project will
seek to create this impact, through learning in three different areas
related to the three sub-tests for the project: 1. Lessons will be learned
through the project's efforts to strengthen the capabilities of the ADA to
perform its functions in an effective and cost-efficient way. This impact
can be captured by measures of increased volume and quality of investment
and trade enquiries generated, and by the Agency's ability to convert
enquiries into real project proposals and subsequently into investment and
trade decisions, and by improvements in investor and exporter attitudes
towards doing business with the ADA. In particular, the project will
examine the effectiveness of different promotion and facilitation
mechanisms in achieving this impact.The project will benchmark appropriate
performance and success measures against the norms and outcomes
experienced by other similar investment and exports promotion agencies,
and will seek to learn lessons from experiences elsewhere.2. Lessons will
also be learned through work to improve the business and investment



environment in Armenia, initiated as result of the project and triggered
by more effective interaction between the Government and private sector.
This impact can be captured by measures of the number and quality of
policy improvements and by private sector feedback on the effectiveness of
the ADA as a stimulant for improvements in the business climate, as well
as through more operational measures, for example relating to processing
times for licenses and approvals, etc.An investment promotion agency has a
cross-cutting mandate: it deals on a daily basis with issues that overlap
with responsibilities of almost all government agencies. It means that
such an agency must face in two directions - towards potential private
investors (the key focus of this LIL) and towards government at large,
with the potential to influence the wider government machine in ways which
will enhance its responsiveness to private investors. To be effective,
the ADA will need to convince other government ministries and agencies to
change their policies and to be broadly cooperative. The project intends
to strengthen the capabilities of the ADA in a way that would expand its
interactions with other parts of the Government and make the agency a real
champion of private investors. From its contacts with the private sector,
the ADA would have the first hand knowledge of existing problems in the
regulatory framework, and would be in the position to transmit this
knowledge to the Government at large.These lessons, therefore, will be
learned through the results of the overall project, but also more
immediately in operational terms through the day-to-day interactions
between the ADA and relevant Government Ministries. The project design
envisions monitoring at both levels, based on international experience
with measuring efficiency of investment promotion. Specifically, progress
with capacity building of the ADA will be benchmarked against its
performance at the commencement of the project and will be compared with
accepted norms for similar agencies in other countries in terms of their
productivity and success. In particular the monitoring plan envisages
regular surveys of investors and exporters to measure their assessments
of how the ADA, and the wider Government, responded to their needs and to
capture their assessment of how this affected their investment and export
decisions. These surveys will also seek to assess changes in business
environment, Government capacity and their impact on private sector's
response. Another aspect of monitoring will be focused on ability of the
ADA to generate new proposals for improving the business climate and
improve the pace of their acceptance by the Government.The challenge for
learning therefore relate to: a) strengthening the ADA in a way that will
cause positive response from the private sector, in the form of more
investment and exports decisions; b) strengthening the ADA in a way which
will have a positive policy-making impact on the government; and c)
staffing the ADA by capable local experts, exposed to marketing and
consulting expertise.The project also lends itself to creating an impact
on the wider process of public sector reform in Armenia by experimenting
with new principles of organization of Government autonomous agencies,
based on a greater managerial flexibility, better pay, and greater
accountability for results. This will be an entirely new model for a
government agency in this region of the world. Through the flow of policy
proposals, representing the voice of the private sector for reform, and
through joint participation in development programs, the ADA will exert
pressure for change on the rest of the government. In Armenia, the World
Bank has been piloting the Enterprise Incubator project as an entry point
to start unlocking rigidities in the private sector's IT cluster - a
tiny, yet very dynamic pocket of vitality in an otherwise stagnant
-2 -



economy. The project pilots innovative private-public mechanisms for
providing business development services to nascent enterprises and
continuous education and training to students and professors. The project
is expected to have a powerful demonstration effect that would accelerate
building of export capacity in other sectors of the economy.
2. Objectives
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 0.5
IDA 1
Total Project Cost 1.5
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Karen Grigorian
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (374-1)52-09-92
Fax: (374-1)151-787
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 3 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 7,2001
- 4 -



