Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23628-AM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LENDING (CREDIT)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 0.8 MILLION
(USD1.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A
FOREIGN INVESTMENT & EXPORT FACILITATION (FIEF) LIL
March 22, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 5, 2002)
Currency Unit = Armenian Dramn (ADM)
ADM 560 = US$ I
US$ 0.00179 = ADM I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADA          Armenian Development Agency
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FMS          Financial Management System
FFPMC        Foreign Financing Project Management Center
FIEF         Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation
GoA          Government of Republic of Armenia
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoFE         Ministry of Finance and Economy
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
SA           Special Account
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:  Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:  Samuel Otoo
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Karen Grigorian



ARMENIA
FOREIGN INVESTMENT & EXPORT FACILITATION (FIEF) LIL
CONTENTS
A. LIL Justification                                                                                                                             Page
1.   What is to be learned (why the piloting)? ...................................................................                              2
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?                                                 4
3.   Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise ................................                                    5
B. Structure of the Pilot
1.   How     will the learning take place? ......................................................................                               5
2.   Outcome-level test to be conducted ......................................................................                                  7
3.   Steps Involved in Implementing the Pilot .......................................................................                           7
4.   Learning Expectations to be Documented in the Pilot ..........................................................                             7
5.   Triggers for a Follow-on Operation ......................................................................                                  7
6.   Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements .....................................................                                 7
C. Components and their Implementation Arrangements
1.   Project components ......................................................................                                                  7
2. Implementation arrangements ......................;.                                                                                         9
a. Procurement ......................................................................                                                      9
b. Financial Management ......................................................................                                           10
c. Other ......................................................................                                                          11
D. Risks
1.   Social and Environmental Risks .......................................................................                                   12
a. Safeguard Policies .......................................................................12
b. Other social risks ......................................................................                                             12
2.   Other Risks ......................................................................                                                        12
E. Main Loan/Credit Conditions
1.   Effectiveness Conditions ......................................................................                                          13
2. Other ......................................................................                                                                13
F. Readiness for Implementation ......................................................................                                              14
G. Compliance with Bank Policies ......................................................................                                             14
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .15
Annex 2. Project Description .21
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .23
Annex 4. Financial Management .24
Annex 5. Project Processing Schedule .28
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .29
Annex 7. Documents in the Project File .39
Annex 8. Statement of Loans and Credits .40
Annex 9. Country at a Glance .42
Annex     10.   ADA     - The Implementation Agency ....................................................................                            44






ARMENIA
Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPE
Date: March 22, 2002                             Team Leader: Karen Grigorian
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor       Sector Manager/Director: Samuel K. E. Otoo
Project ID: P076543                              Sector(s): KY - Other Economic Policy
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee    [I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 1.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      0.30          0.00          0.30
IDA                                                           0.00           1.00         1.00
Total:                                                        0.30           1.00         1.30
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Responsible agency:
Armenian Development Agency
Address: 17 Charentsi Str., Yerevan, Armenia 375010
Contact Person: Mr. Vahagn Movsissian, Director
Tel: 374-1-57-01-70, 57-56-50         Fax: 374-1-57-77-60          Email: oss@ada.am
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002    I  2003       2004
Annual    0.40        0.31      0.29
Cumulative    0.40       0.71       1.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OMS MF.. P-o M.~,  ZU



A. LIL Justification
1. What is to be learned (why the piloting)?
The LIL is expected to test the responses of prospective investors and exporters to the establishment of a
high quality one-stop window to streamline necessary transaction processing and the implementation of a
promotion strategy to attract the interest of investors to an Armenian location. The LIL will also test
whether the creation of a private sector-focused agency working as an intermediary between private sector
clients and Government Ministries can have a positive impact on the wider business climate and on
Govenmment responsiveness to private investors and exporters.
The main mechanism envisaged for implementing this project is to work with the Government of Armenia
(GoA), primarily through their lead agency, the Armenian Development Agency (ADA), to develop within
the agency the culture, skills, operation systems and procedures necessary to accommodate and facilitate
private business needs. To illustrate how such an Agency can support private sector investment decisions,
the following chart sets out the process which private investors typically follow in whole or in part in
determining investment location decisions. The process illustrates the stages and the services which the
public sector needs to provide in order to encourage a favorable private sector response.
The hypothesis to be tested is that cumbersome procedures and uncertainties within the investment climate
have kept potential investors and exporters from showing much interest in Armenia. The mechanism
selected to test this hypothesis will be the creation of an effective private sector focused agency, i.e., which
will provide the wide range of information and services required by private investors and traders to
successfully complete the investment process as set out above. In particular, the project will seek to
introduce innovative mechanisms (in particular, developing the use of online promotion technologies) to the
Agency, to enhance its capability to deal with and respond to the needs of private investors and exporters
on their terms.
The Investors' Deision-Maldng Process
lmage    nvs   t enaaion    In. esrinu negomaons,
bruildin    arnd mvicing     pamimng. arnd app%,'Ws
Pim,eA rF mu Infafon  Ddmd  1Mng'is  Arbiatng X ase fr  E-Fzg piup
ofAmoa    E-yt-dg nmw*ard  zn-gviam  Annmavisavis odI  casin. afier
Oud,m  i  Makawananuss nmiy  anniit, dc  bOhmbc,Waa  servcu
Gea-zlergaq--     mhnukca  PssatmngL uwmtmat NegotZmg Sft bws,
Andkesbni a   ianeg  kM-6  qrmunIta  palk k
Gbmfawm           P-NgS               %-% PDSWt
MaeemAm,ams      jzeanVs              assival,sinpigto
hsapMs                               nemy swvie, etc
The project will seek to make the Agency effective both in terms of reacting to investor enquiries and in
tenrs of proactively seeking out new potential investors for Armenia. A critical element of the latter will
be the selection and establishment of appropriate market (sectors, countries) targeting, ensuring that the
Agency focuses on those companies for which Armenia offers a viable investment location option and
which might therefore react most favorably, and similarly focusing on those sectors and companies offering
viable export possibilities. The early stages of the project therefore, will include research and investigation
- 2 -



to identify the best sector prospects. But this research work will itself be innovative in that it will be
specifically operational in nature, focused on helping the ADA to develop a detailed knowledge of selected
sectors sufficient to build up a requisite information on those sectors to make their response to potential
investor and exporter enquiries more effective. Staff training, promotion materials, and outreach activities
such as investment and trade missions will then be targeted to maximize the potential responses from each
selected sector.
Because of the many unknowns in providing business development services and in stimulating institutional
change of this type, and in particular, because of the emerging importance of online technologies in modem
business practices, a pilot project is believed to be the best instrument to reliably test response rates among
potential investors and export oriented firms. The proposed knowledge-based approach is particularly
innovative for Armenia, because the Agency will be the pioneer in nature to pilot a new way of doing
business within the Government.
The central proposition of this proposal is that a more proactive investment outreach and export
development program, coupled with an excellent response to investor enquiries, will be necessary to
complement the improved business climate. The Government of Armenia views the LIL as an appropriate
instrument, focusing on the Armenian Development Agency, to overcome critical institutional bottlenecks
and develop new capabilities that would enable it to boost the potential inflow of FDI and increase export
volumes. The Government's general approach to implementation of new policies and programs is to
remove administrative barriers and institutional harshness existing in the business environment. The
Government also views the reshaped ADA as a pioneering unit serving as an example of innovative
approach of doing business; proactive; forward looking and on-line agency - possibly even constituting a
first step to the future e-Government of Armenia.
The development objective of this project is to attract the prospective investors and exporters to Republic
of Armenia by:
I.     establishment of a high quality one-stop window to streamline necessary transaction processing;
2.    implementation of a promotion strategy to attract the interest of investors to a Republic of Armenia
location;
3.     creation of a private sector-focused agency working as an intermediary between private sector
clients and Government Ministries;
4.     developing within the ADA the culture, skills, operation systems and procedures necessary to
accommodate and facilitate private business needs.
2. How are the results going to be used (vis a vis CAS objectives and any follow-on operation)?
Document number: 22111-AM         Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/22/2001
The project is fully consistent with the main objective of the CAS, which is "Creating Jobs through Private
Sector Development" with a special emphasis on "Direct Support for Foreign Investment" in Armenia. In
particular, it would follow up on effective implementation of the private sector related reform agenda
initiated by the Fourth Structural Adjustment Credit and aimed at improving the entrepreneurial climate.
Specifically, it would help the Government to expand benefits from recent improvements in the business
climate (including liberalization of licensing, registration, inspection, and reporting requirements) by
strengthening institutions and mechanisms that promote exports and investments.
However, improvements to the business climate are critical to Armenia's ability to compete globally for
FDI, and it is unlikely, given the high degree of competition for FDI in Eastem Europe and Central Asia
- 3 -



and given the significant impact that the 11th September terrorist attacks will undoubtedly have on
perceptions of risk and hence on investment flows, that these improvements alone will be sufficient to
ensure success. The public sector in Armenia currently lacks the capability to effectively respond to
private sector needs, while at the same time there is a serious shortage of skills in Armenia capable of
facilitating the efficient and effective entry of private companies to the Armenian marketplace and of
ensuring the best conditions for productive operations.
The LIL is designed to use the Armenian Development Agency as a catalyst to boost investment activity
through seeking private investment opportunities in this difficult market, and through stimulating growth in
exports. The ADA has been subject of earlier assessment and recommendations by both FIAS and MIGA.
Both Agencies made substantial recommendations designed to improve the overall investment climate in
Armenia and, specifically, to reform the ADA and to get it into a shape where a capacity building project of
the sort now envisaged would be viable. The GoA has subsequently made a significant commitment to both
FDI and exports promotion as central planks of economic strategy and more specifically to the ADA in the
form of additional budget provision, appointment of a Board of Directors with significant private sector
participation and to the rationalization of the ADA in staffing and structural terms. The establishment of a
Business Support Council as a mechanism for creating direct dialogue between private business and
Govemment has been another important development. The ADA's role as secretariat to the new Council
places it in a critical position as an intermediary for the business community. MIGA has now advised that
it believes that sufficient steps have been taken to reform the ADA to justify proceeding with a structured
capacity building program.
3. Other countries or situations where similar efforts have shown promise.
MIGA is currently involved in projects in the area of investment promotion in a variety of other countries
across the world, although all of them are highly tailored to the needs of local clients and currently none are
in the ECA region. Nevertheless, specific results of pilot projects in El Salvador, Nicaragua, Korea,
Thailand, Vietnam and others, as they relate to the changing role of online technologies in business
practices and hence in investment and export promotion, will be of great value in developing appropriate
tailored approaches for Armenia. In addition, as part of its larger integrated capacity building programs,
MIGA has developed internet systems and training support, investor tracking systems and company
database support in a number of countries, and this experience will be used in the proposed project.
In a similar project in Vietnam, MIGA has worked closely with the Department of Planning and Investment
(DPI) in Ho Chi Minh City, to modernize and focus its investment promotion activities at a time when the
country as a whole was finding it very difficult to attract FDI. Under the Miyazawa Initiative, the capacity
building program provided staff training in investment promotion techniques, sector targeting and in the
implementation and use of online technologies. The program saw the development and implementation of
an interactive website for the DPI, and a management infornation system to improve investor tracking and
information flows. At the beginning of 2000, the launch of the program, the DPI did not have any
investment promotion web presence, investment promotion skills level amongst staff were very poor, and
there was little foreign investor interest in Vietnam. One year later, the DPI launched a highly professional,
interactive website (httr://www.hcminvest.gov.vn/) with over 1000 pages of quality investor-focused
material, and attracting over 10,000 'hits' in its first two months of operation. And now, with a more
professionally trained staff, the DPI is working to convert this dramatically increased level of interest in
investing in Vietnam into real investment decisions.
In Armenia, the World Bank has been piloting the Enterprise Incubator project as an entry point to start
unlocking rigidities in the private sector's IT cluster - a tiny, yet very dynamic pocket of vitality in an
- 4 -



otherwise stagnant economy. The project pilots innovative private-public mechanisms for providing
business development services to nascent enterprises and continuous education and training to students and
professors. The project is expected to have a powerful demonstration effect that would accelerate building
of export capacity in other sectors of the economy.
B. Structure of the Pilot
1. How will learning take place?
The learning will take place through implementation of a structured pilot aimed at improving private sector
response to business opportunities in Armenia, by strengthening the institutional capacity of the Armenian
Development Agency to respond to its needs.
Ultimately, the project's success will feed through into improved economic performance within Armenia,
specifically in terms of increased investment and exports levels, with related improvements in terms of both
jobs and income. Inprovements in these areas will be a clear indicator of an improved private sector
response to the project. This impact can be captured by measuring increases in investment and trade, and
by measuring the employment and income flowing from this.
The project will seek to create this impact, through learning in three different areas related to the three
sub-tests for the project:
1.     Lessons will be learned through the project's efforts to strengthen the capabilities of the ADA to
perform its functions in an effective and cost-efficient way. This impact can be captured by measures of
increased volume and quality of investment and trade enquiries generated, and by the Agency's ability to
convert enquiries into real project proposals and subsequently into investment and trade decisions, and by
improvements in investor and exporter attitudes towards doing business with the ADA.
The project will benchmark appropriate performance and success measures against norms
elsewhere and results experienced by similar investmnent and exports promotion agencies, and will
seek to adopt lessons from their experiences.
2.     Lessons will also emerge from efforts to improve the business and investment environment in
Armenia, initiated as result of the project and triggered by more effective interaction between the
Government and private sector. This impact can be captured by private sector feedback on the
effectiveness of the ADA as a stimulant for improvements in the business climate, as well as through more
operational measures, for example relating to processing times for licenses and approvals, etc.
An investment promotion agency has a cross-cutting mandate: it deals on a daily basis with issues that
overlap with responsibilities of almost all government agencies. It means that such an agency must face in
two directions - towards potential private investors (the key focus of this LIL) and towards government at
large, with the potential to influence the wider government machine in ways which will enhance its
responsiveness to private investors. To be effective, the ADA will need to convince other government
ministries and agencies to change their policies and to be broadly cooperative. The project intends to
strengthen the capabilities of the ADA in a way that would expand its interactions with other parts of the
Government and make the agency a real champion of private investors. From its contacts with the private
sector, the ADA would have the first hand knowledge of existing problems in the regulatory framework,
and would be in the position to transmit this knowledge to the Government at large.
These lessons, therefore, will be learned through the results of the overall project, but also more
-5-



immediately in operational terns through the day-to-day interactions between the ADA and relevant
Government Ministries.
The project design envisions monitoring at both levels, based on international experience with measuring
efficiency of investment promotion. In particular the monitoring plan envisages regular surveys of investors
and exporters to assess how the ADA, and the wider Government, responded to their needs and to assess
how this affected their investment and export decisions. These surveys will also seek to assess changes in
business environment, Governnent capacity and their impact on private sector's response. Another aspect
of monitoring will be focused on ability of the ADA to generate new proposals for improving the business
climate and improve the pace of their acceptance by the Government.
MIGA will continue to play a key role in this project, and in particular to stimulate the learning which will
emerge as the project proceeds. MIGA's overall mission is to stimulate the flow of overseas investment to
developing and transition member countries.  MIGA typically works with investment promotion
intermediaries, providing leading edge expertise, tools and techniques to strengthen their capacity to attract
and retain foreign direct investment, providing both "hands on" operational assistance to promotion
intermediaries and a range of investment information services to assist member countries. Each program is
tailored to meet needs and capabilities of the specific client country.
MlGA's role in this project will be to help design and implement a program of activities that satisfies the
objectives of this LIL, which meet the needs of the GoA and the ADA and which maximizes the
opportunities associated with the project. MIGA will provide support to the project throughout its life and
will provide quality management and supervision to ensure that the best skills, systems, tools and
techniques are available throughout the project.
2. Outcome-level test to be conducted
N/A
3. Steps involved in conducting the pilot
N/A
4. Learning expectations to be documented in the pilot
1 Economic     O Technical     fII Social      1 Participation
1 Financial      1 Institutional  fI Environmental 1 Other
5. Triggers for a follow-on operation
N/A
6. Results-based Monitoring and Evaluation System
N/A
C. Project Components and Implementation Arrangements
1. LIL Components
There will be four key components to this LIL:
1.        Infrastructure and Skills Development: This component will cover staff incentives, which
are intended to compensate the staff for the incremental activities under the Project. It also includes an
allowance for technical support in the form of local consultants deemed necessary to ensure the strategic
- 6 -



direction and technical expertise required by this project. This component also covers elements of the
project relevant to the whole Agency, namely providing transportation for investor servicing within the
country, generic staff training required by Agency teams across all components of the project (e.g.
understanding company investment decision-making, project development, presentation and negotiations
skills, etc.), the upgrading of current (poor) ADA internet capabilities to create a professional quality web
site as a tool for on-line investment and importlexport promotion activities as well as the implementation of
a company tracking database. Most of the latter costs will be one-off in year one.
2.         Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Exporter Servicing: In terms of the test
objectives for this LIL, the starting point for the ADA must, as a matter of priority, be to improve its
ability to respond to and to service the needs of foreign investors and exporters which approach it with an
enquiry or an interest in investing or in exporting. This component of this project will therefore target
efforts to improve the quality of information, investor servicing and facilitation skills. Specific skills
training will be complemented by the development and implementation of investor systems designed to
allow the ADA to deal professionally with its investor contacts - enquiry handling, investor tracking,
effective presentations, investor facilitation, organizing visit programs, etc.- and high quality information to
serve the needs of investors and exporters considering expansion in Armenia.
3.       Investment and Export Promotion and Generation:
In terms of investment promotion the project will build on the ADA's ability to professionally react to
investor enquiries to develop a more proactive approach to investment promotion, in other words it will
seek to give the ADA an effective outreach capacity. Based on focused sector targeting studies and the
creation of tailored sector marketing materials, the ADA will receive comprehensive investment promotion
training, including outreach and follow-up techniques, and the tools and techniques of investment
promotion, e.g. cold calling, letter writing, presentations and the organization and implementation of
missions, fairs and other events. The ADA staff would also be coached and trained in the planning and
execution of outward promotion missions to selected target markets.
In terms of its exports development, the ADA currently undertakes only some limited match-making
services for Arrnenian companies with aspirations to export but while this activity appears at face value to
be a worthwhile activity it is, in fact, adding very little value to the economy. The main reason is that the
vast majority of companies which contact the ADA are not really "export-ready", that is to say that they
have many business development needs which must be dealt with before exporting becomes a really viable
option, e.g. production standards, marketing capabilities, financial systems, etc. For exports, the key
challenge of this component will, therefore, be to shift the ADA's emphasis from one-off match-making
interventions (with little retum) to deeper interventions with a smaller number of companies with real
market potential to export. The capacity building work, therefore, must begin with effective company
targeting to allow the ADA to focus its scarce resources on those sectors and companies where it can really
make a difference. The project will necessarily commence with a substantial skills training program,
designed to bring as many of the required business development skills as possible inside the agency, e.g.
understanding exports markets, understanding business, business development and wider economic
development skills.
This component will also involve the planning and participation in exports missions in line with selected
sector priorities, and, in years two and three of the project, we will seek to develop both an
enterprise-focused export development scheme and a co-financed exhibition participation scheme.
4.       Project Management: Monitoring and Evaluation - This component will ensure qualitative
- 7 -



implementation and monitoring of the project by the experienced Project Implementation Unit. The project
will set out a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation plan, including a statement of all target evaluation
measures and planned monitoring, evaluation and reporting time-scales. Benchmark data will be collected
at the commencement of the project to act as baseline to gauge improvements throughout the project life.
Indlcative             Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Infrastructure Strengthening and                     0.66      50.8      0.36      36.0
Skills Development
2. Institutional Strengthening for                      0.12       9.2      0.12       12.0
Investor and Exporter Servicing
3. Investment and Export Generation                     0.40      30.8      0.40       40.0
4. Project Monitoring and Evaluation                    0.12       9.2       0.12      12.0
Total Project Costs                    1.30     100.0      1.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                      1.30     100.0      1.00     100.0
2. Implementation Arrangements
a. Procurement
The Ministry of Finance and Economy has designated the responsibilities for all loan accounting,
disbursements, procurement, financial management reporting and arranging annual audits etc. to its Project
Implementation and Management Unit (PIU), called Foreign Financing Projects Management Centre
(FFPMC). Republic of Armenian Development Agency (ADA) is the main beneficiary of the credit. IDA
appraisal mission has conducted the procurement capacity assessments, both for FFPMC and ADA. It was
determined that, at present, ADA does not have requisite procurement experience, nor does it have the staff
trained in procurement skills. Considering the fast track record for the LEL project, and the time and
resources needed to build up ADA's financial management and procurement capacity to satisfy World
Bank requirements, it was agreed that the Foreign Financing Projects' Management Centre (FFPMC) will
be responsible for all procurement activities financed under the credit, accounting, disbursements, financial
management reporting in accordance with the IDA procedures, and arranging annual project audits from
the date of effectiveness till December 31, 2003 (i.e. in the first 18 months of project implementation), and
also train ADA staff in procurement and other skills.
To date, FFPMC has implemented nineteen World Bank/IDA financed projects, and has satisfied the
procurement and financial management requirements of the World Bank/IDA. It has extensive experience
in managing projects in accordance with World Bank/IDA 's procurement guidelines. During appraisal, it
was agreed that one of FFPMC 's procurement specialists experienced in procurement of goods and
consultant services under World Bank/IDA procurement procedures will be appointed as Procurement
officer for the LIL. The Procurement Specialist's resume was reviewed by IDA mission, and found
acceptable.
The procurement arrangements under FFPMC, with the appointment of a designated Procurement Officer
for LIL are satisfactory. Procurement of goods and selection of consultants under the LIL is expected to
start shortly after negotiations. The Procurement Officer shall immediately start work on preparing
procurement documents (bidding documents for the procurement of goods or services, and hiring of
consultants under the Bank's guidelines for the procurement of Consultants under IBRD/IDA financed
- 8 -



loans/credits), and send these for the Bank's review and clearance.
ADA will undertake all functions carried out by FFPMC as PIU, after 18 months of project
implementation from FFPMC, (i.e. by closing of calendar year 2003). It will be dependent upon IDA's
re-assessment, as satisfactory, of its procurement and financial managements capacity, in accordance with
the IDA procedures. The project has provision for hiring one procurement and one financial management
consultant at ADA, who will work with the FFPMC during its function as PIU for LIL, from the date of
project effectiveness, and will upgrade ADA's financial management and procurement capacity to satisfy
IDA 's requirements. ADA's procurement consultant shall be attached to the PI1 's Procurement Officer
for LIL, early in the first year of implementation, and will become responsible for procurement after
December 31, 2003, when ADA becomes the implementing agency.
Goods estimated at US$61,400, which includes office equipment, vehicles etc. would be procured under
International/Local Shopping procedures as per Bank/IDA 's guidelines. Consultants' Services are
estimated at US$575,000 equivalent, which include consulting services for studies, training, specialized
services for developing skills of ADA staff under various components of the this project. Some individual
consultants would also be hired for focussed support to ADA's staff in developing their skills. Bank/IDA's
guidelines will be followed in procuring these services.
b. Financial Management
IDA appraisal mission in December, 2001 reviewed the financial management/ accounting systems at
ADA. While the agency has potential to build up its financial management capacity, it does not currently
comply with IDA requirements on financial management. It was recommended that the Foreign Financing
Projects Management Centre (FFPMC) under Ministry of Finance and Economy undertake all project
accounting, disbursements, financial management reporting, and an-anging annual project audits from the
date of project effectiveness till December 31, 2003. During this period, the financial management
consultant of ADA will be attached to the PIU's Financial Management Officer for the LIL, and work
closely on project disbursements/financial management through PIU, and building up ADA's financial
management systems to satisfy World Bank requirements by December 31, 2003. The close coordination
between ADA and PIU will be required in project implementation, and clear definition of responsibilities
and authorities of each entity will be specified in Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and fnancial
management/operational manual of the PIU. Assurances would be sought, at negotiations, that PI1 will
ensure that it does not claim the same staff and operational expenses in different projects managed by it.
PIU will ensure that it segregates the PIU staff and operational expenses project by project and maintain
adequate records in respect of it. The future Bank missions will review the PIU arrangements in this
respect.
A review of the Foreign Financing Projects Management Centre (FFPMC), the Project Implementation and
Management Unit (PIU) for Republic of Armenia Enterprise Incubator LIL and this project, was
undertaken in June 2001, to (i) review the presence of the necessary elements for sound project financial
management system such as internal controls, project accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements,
(ii) prepare a time-bound action plan aimed at strengthening the financial management system in regard of
managing the Enterprise Incubator (EI) LEL accounting, disbursements and procurement.
Under the action plan above the following steps were implemented: Financial management/Operational
manual and chart of accounts for the El were developed; short list of auditing companies was compiled and
the Audit TOR was agreed with the IDA with no outstanding actions remaining.
-9-



The FMS in place is in compliance with the Bank's requirement under OP/BP 10.02.
The external audit will be contracted with an independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank and carried
out in accordance with terms of reference (TOR) cleared by the Bank and in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Annual financial audit reports will be furnished to the Bank
within six months from the end of each fiscal year. The cost of the audit will be financed from the LIL
proceeds.
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against 100 % for incremental operating cost and
100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services and goods while the percentage of financing would be
90 % if same are procured locally. To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for goods, services,
and incremental operating cost the Government will open a special account (SA) in the Central Bank to
cover part of IDA 's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by FFPMC that will be
responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documentation.
To the extent possible, all of IDA 's share of expenditures should be paid through the special account. All
expenditures eligible for IDA financing of less than US$25,000 equivalent would be paid from the SA .
The borrower would be authorized to submit withdrawal applications based on Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) or full documentation for reimbursement requests, as per existing disbursement procedures. For
amounts above the equivalent of US$25,000 the borrower would be permitted to submit withdrawal
applications for direct payment.
c. Other
Project Reporting
As stated in the revised LACI implementation advisory guidelines on options available for projects
appraised before January 1, 2002 but not yet negotiated, the FIEF LIL project can be subject to one of the
3 FMR-based scenarios. Considering the small size of the project, the simplified reporting requirements
under LIL projects, and the PITJ's experience under World Bank financial reporting and disbursement
guidelines, it is recommended that IDA credit would be disbursed under traditional disbursement option for
project duration. FMRs will be used for reporting purposes only, while disbursements will be made on a
traditional disbursement basis, as described in "Disbursement Arrangements" section of annex 6.
Flow of Funds and Legal Agreements
The IDA credit will be provided to Republic of Armenia represented by the MOF. The credit will carry the
standard IDA fees, grace period and maturity schedule. This transaction will be documented in the
Development Credit Agreement signed by the Bank and Republic of Armenia. The MOF through the
agency of the PIUl, an organization (without a status of legal entity) under the supervision of the Executive
Director, Foreign Financing Projects Management Center, Ministry of Finance and Economy, will advance
the proceeds of the credit to the ADA as a grant. This transaction will be documented in the Implementation
Agreement singed between the MOF and the authorized representatives of the ADA. This document will
define the objectives, role and responsibilities of the ADA as a recipient of the grant. This document will
also delineate the fiduciary principal-agent relationship between the ADA and the PIU.
Project Implementation and Fiduciary Functions
The ADA will be responsible for the implementation of the project as outlined in the Implementation
Agreement. The fiduciary functions of the ADA including procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing
- 10 -



and external reporting, however, will be carried out by the PIU in accordance with the policies and
guidelines of the Bank. The fiduciary principal-agent relationship between the ADA and the PIU will be
outlined in the Project Operational Manual, Implementation Agreement and the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) which will form an integral part of the Implementation Agreement. The PIU will continue to
perform the fiduciary functions of the ADA until the stage when the latter has developed sufficient capacity
of its own (12 to 18 months period) to assume these functions.
D. Risks
1. Social and Environmental Risk
The Project does not have environmental risks and gets a category C classification. Because of the nature
of the pilot (previously described) social risks are negligible.
a. Safeguard Policies
No safeguard policies have been triggered. The Project does not have environmental risks and gets a
category C classification. Because of the nature of the pilot (previously described) social risks are
negligible.
Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
b. Other Social Risks
The Project activity will lead neither to social instability, nor to infringement of civil rights. It does not have
resettlement proposals, negative impact on indigenous peoples, or substantial sociopolitical or reputational
risks. On the contrary, it will empower a society with best practice tools and opportunities.
2. Other (external, reflecting the failure of the assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continued government support for private   M         Training and interactions with the Government
sector- focused skills (particularly based           officials in order to educate on the World Best
within the ADA);                                     practices
Continued Government support for           M         Active use of the High Business Council to
improved dialogue with potential                     highlight the investors feedback
investors;
Government remains receptive to            M         Bringing to the Government's attention the
messages of necessary business reform;               tangible increase in jobs and tax income
resulting from business reform
Relevant Ministries continue to be open to  N        Regular trainings and seminars organized for the
staff development and learning;                      officials
Selection of internet providers that are   N         Following the stringent procurement criteria
capable of supporting ADA requirements;
ADA Board and Business Support             M         Training for the ADA staff as a Secretariat to
Council are effective mechanisms for                 the Business Council
transferring policy advice to Government;
and
Stable implementation arrangements.        N         Continuos close oversight of the Project
From Components to Outputs
Government has refused to use developed    N         Demonstrating to the Government the success
-1 -



investor servicing mechanism.                       stories in comparable countries
Developed investment promotion             M        Start-up MIGA mission at the beginning of the
mechanism has not been introduced in a              Project
proper way.
The introduced promotion mechanisms,       N        Assigning and motivation of specialized staff to
including internet capabilities, are not            maintenance of the Web page
updated and maintained
Government has changed the export          M        Continuous consultations with the Government
promotion and enterprise development                 on development and update of its export
strategy.                                           promotion and enterprise development strategy
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Strengthening a semi-autonomous Government agency organization in the current weak institutional
environment in Annenia carries a considerable risk of failure, hence the categorization of this project as an
experiment. It can fail to respond to the needs of private investors and exporters, and hence fail to generate
new investment and exports flows if any of the following occurs:
>      If the Government intervenes in the operation of the Agency in a way which causes it to become an
instrument of rent-seeking and/or a channel for allocation of subsidies, or if it interferes with the cost
structures or wage levels paid by the Agency in such a way that it cannot be competitive in terms of
attracting and retaining staff of the right caliber; or
>      If the Government allocates additional and unrelated tasks to the Agency's mandate, hence
distracting it from its core mission and diluting its ability to service private investors, or
>      If the Agency is run as a bureaucracy rather than as a business-focused organization.
The first challenge could be addressed by making the organization effectively autonomous from the
Government, although since a significant proportion of its funding must necessarily come from
Government, this will be hard to achieve. However, the recent introduction of a Board of Directors,
chaired by the Prime Minister and with 50% membership from the private sector, will give some protection
to the Agency's mission.
The second group of risks underlines key importance of entrepreneurial and managerial skills of Agency
managers, who should combine business skills and instincts with the diplomatic tact and skills to handle
inevitable tensions with the government and other stakeholders. In essence the ADA needs to become a
private sector organization within the public sector. Intensive training and private sector experience for
senior managers, and the role of the private sector members in the Board should assist in alleviating this
risk.
E. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and ADA; and
*   the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that there are no delays or.
- 12 -



arrears in the payment of ADA staff salaries.
2. Other (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
The Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that there are no delays or arrears in
the payment of ADA staff salaries at all times during project implementation.
F. Readiness for Implementation
OII 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
i 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Project will be implemented by the PIU that has already had an experience in the Bank financed
operations. The Financial Management Assessment have been recently done during the appraisal stage of
the Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation Project (LIL), and Procurement Capacity Assessment was
completed during the appraisal stage of this project. The PIU has sufficient experience in developing a
Project Implementation Plan and an Operations Manual, with Monitoring and Evaluation sections.
G. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Cl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Karen Grigorian                  Samuel K. E. Otoo                     M. 'Connor
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager
-13 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators         -_      ._._.Critical Assumrptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:     Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improving the business   * Establishment of new  * ESW (occasional)      * That macroeconomic
environment by reducing  foreign companies, increase * Other Development  growth is maintained
administrative barriers to  in companies exporting and Institutions Reports  * That government policy
investment and new entry,  reduced administrative  * Periodic World Bank  remains conducive to a
especially of foreign firms. barriers to investment  Reports             consultative approach to
* MIT and GoA statistics  relations with the private
sector.
* That improvement in the
Armenian business climate
can be sustained and
progressed sufficient to
attract more investment and
encourage more exports.
Building effective       * Mechanisms for
public-private consultative  continuous public-private
mechanisms and enforcing a consultations are in place
level playing field for new
and existing companies;
Promotion of the Private  * Increased FDI and exports
Sector, direct support for  volumes
foreign investment and
exports; Information and
advisory support for foreign
investors and exporters;
- 14 -



.       Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators                                  Critical Assumptions
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Improvement of investment *   Diminishing        Survey of Business and  Continuation of economic
and business climate, as  administrative barriers for  investment climate  reforms and private sector
well as enhancement of the  investment and doing                         development
country investment      business in Armenia
attractiveness and
facilitation of exports
Decrease the administrative Sectoral studies     Overall improvement of
costs for investors and                          business and investment
exporters                                        climate
Increase the overall volume Web based methods of  Formulation of a cohesive
of FDI and creation of new  collecting information  Government strategy on
jobs                                             attracting FDI and
promoting exports
Export growth through
support to domestic
enterprises
- 15 -



, .   Key Performance     Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of ObIectives        Indicators,                          -      Critical Assumptions
Project Development      Outcome / Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Test of potential exporters  Development of a quality  * Supervision mission  * Continued government
and investors response to  one-stop e-govemnment  reports;               support for improved
Republic of Armenia's    window to streamline    * Evaluation mission     investment environment.
investment environment   necessary transaction   reports (MTR & ICR);      * The ability of the ADA
implementation of a      processing              * Investors and exporters  to work and facilitate
promotion strategy to                            surveys.                 improvements in the
attract the interest of  A measured and significant                       services offered by relevant
investors to a Republic of  increase in the proportion of                 Ministries.
Armenia location.        prospective exporters and
investors who:
* Make investment
enquires;
* Enquire via the web;
* Request detailed research
via web;
* Undertake project
development;
* Conduct site visits;
* Negotiate selected
locations;
* Apply for necessary
permits via web;
* Decide to invest in
Republic of Armenia;
permits from participating
agencies;
* Are satisfied with
Republic of Armenia's
investment environment (via
survey).
- 16-



HIerarchy of Objectives    Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
lHierarchy of Objectives       Indicators ..................  .Critical Assurnptions
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Infrastructure and   * Increased skill levels and  * Project Progress Reports  * Continued government
Skills Development:     experience amongst      (quarterly)              support for private sector-
Improvements in the     participating staff;     Technical audit reports;  focused skills (particularly
appropriate private sector  * Exchange of staff with  * Supervision mission  based within the ADA);
focused skills base within  private sector;      reports;                * Relevant Ministries
the ADA and more widely  * Implementation of web  * Evaluation mission   continue to be open to staff
within government, and the  presence and tracking  reports (MTR & ICR).  development and learning;
introduction of appropriate  system;             * Technical audit reports.  * Selection of internet
web-based technologies to  * Response of investors to                    providers that are capable
support investment and  web site;                                        of supporting ADA
exports promotion, i.e. an  * Effective tracking of                      requirements;
interactive web presence  company contacts and                           * Government remains
and an investor tracking  enquiries;                                     receptive to messages of
system.                 * Verification that the                          necessary business reform;
activities were implemented                      * ADA Board and Business
as planned.                                      Support Council are
effective mechanisms for
transferring policy advice to
Government.
2. Institutional        * Efficient throughput of                        Council are effective
Strengthening for Investor enquiries;                                    mechanisms for transferring
and Exporter            * Facilitation of investment                     policy advice to
Servicing:              and export case in timely                        Government.
Improvements in the     manner;
Agency's ability to respond * Effective follow up and
to and to service the needs  aftercare of business
of foreign investors and  contacts;
exporters which approach it * Gradually increasing
with an enquiry or an   volume and quality of
interest in investing or in  investment and export
exporting. This component information developed and
of this project will therefore provided;
target efforts to improve the * Improvements in the
quality of information,  processing of investor
investor servicing and  enquiries - reduction in the
facilitation skills.    time taken to respond,
increase in the quality of
Business-focused policy and service provided;
operational partnerships  * Proposals drafted for
created between the ADA  changes in administrative
and other govermment and  regulations are presented
private sector bodies to  by ADA;
ensure wider responsiveness b Regular flow of
to investor and exporter  information between
- 17-



needs.                  investors - ADA -
Government.
3. Investment Promotion  * Selection of appropriate
and Generation:         sector targets;
Development of an effective . Development of sector
outreach capacity, based on marketing plans;
the identification of focused * Focused outreach
sector targets, and the  activities completed such as
creation of tailored sector  missions, participation in
marketing materials.    exhibitions, etc.;
Comprising comprehensive * Private sector outreach
promotion training      seminars completed;
completed, the organization * Generation of investor
and implementation of   enquiries;
missions, fairs and other  * Improved responses to
events. The development of country and sector
relevant high quality sector promotion materials;
and market information and * Increase in visits by
publications and the use of prospective investors
the website for promotion . reached through outreach
activities;
* Increase in investment
decisions.
4. Project Management.  * Timely preparation of
Monitoring and          TORs for project activities;
Evaluation:             * Timely execution of
Implementation and      project components and
monitoring of the project by disbursement of project
the Project Implementation  moneys;
Unit. Development of a  eMonitoring and evaluation
comprehensive monitoring  plan;
and evaluation plan.    * Timely project reports;
* Good quality project
management information.
-18-



H   Key Performance  Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of ObJectives  -- ..Indlcators .                              t...ritical Assumnptions
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                     Outputs)
1. Infrastructure and Skills     0.386         * Project Progress Reports  Timely availability of local
Development                                    (quarterly)             counterpart funds
* Disbursement Reports
(quarterly)
* Independent Financial
Audit Reports (annual)
2. Institutional                 0.153
Strengthening for Investor
and Exporter Servicing
3. Investment and Exports        0.406
Generation and Promotion
4. Project Management,           0.055
Monitoring and Evaluation
-19-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
By Component:
Project Component i - US$0.66 million
Infrastructure and Skills Development: This component will cover staff incentives, which are intended
to compensate the staff for the incremental activities under the Project. It also includes an allowance for
technical support in the form of local consultants deemed necessary to ensure the strategic direction and
technical expertise required by this project. This component also covers elements of the project relevant to
the whole Agency, namely providing transportation for investor servicing within the country, generic staff
training required by Agency teams across all components of the project (e.g. understanding company
investment decision-making, project development, presentation and negotiations skills, etc.), the upgrading
of current (poor) ADA internet capabilities to create a professional quality web site as a tool for on-line
investment and import/export promotion activities as well as the implementation of a company tracking
database. Most of the latter costs will be one-off in year one.
Project Component 2 - US$0.12 million
Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Exporter Servicing: In terms of the test objectives for this
LIL, the starting point for the ADA must, as a matter of priority, be to improve its ability to respond to and
to service the needs of foreign investors and exporters which approach it with an enquiry or an interest in
investing or in exporting.  This component of this project will therefore target efforts to improve the
quality of information, investor servicing and facilitation skills.  Specific skills training  will be
complemented by the development and implementation of investor systems designed to allow the ADA to
deal professionally with its investor contacts - enquiry handling, investor tracking, effective presentations,
investor facilitation, organizing visit programs, etc.- and high quality information to serve the needs of
investors and exporters considering expansion in Armenia.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.40 million
Investment and Export Promotion and Generation:
In terms of investment promotion the project will build on the ADA's ability to professionally react to
investor enquiries to develop a more proactive approach to investment promotion, in other words it will
seek to give the ADA an effective outreach capacity. Based on focused sector targeting studies and the
creation of tailored sector marketing materials, the ADA will receive comprehensive investment promotion
training, including outreach and follow-up techniques, and the tools and techniques of investment
promotion, e.g. cold calling, letter writing, presentations and the organization and implementation of
missions, fairs and other events. The ADA staff would also be coached and trained in the planning and
execution of outward promotion missions to selected target markets.
In terms of its exports development, the ADA currently undertakes only some limited match-making
services for Armenian companies with aspirations to export, but while this activity appears at face value to
be a worthwhile activity it is, in fact, adding very little value to the economy. The main reason is that the
vast majority of companies which contact the ADA are not really "export-ready", that is to say that they
have many business development needs which must be dealt with before exporting becomes a really viable
option, e.g. production standards, marketing capabilities, financial systems, etc. For exports, the key
challenge of this component will, therefore, be to shift the ADA's emphasis from one-off match-making
interventions (with little return) to deeper interventions with a smaller number of companies with real
-20 -



market potential to export. The capacity building work, therefore, must begin with effective company
targeting to allow the ADA to focus its scarce resources on those sectors and companies where it can really
make a difference. The project will necessarily commence with a substantial skills training program,
designed to bring as many of the required business development skills as possible inside the agency, e.g.
understanding exports markets, understanding business, business development and wider economic
development skills.
The rationale for these programs comes from analysis which suggests that the population of Armenian
companies currently capable of exporting is in fact relatively small, and that there is a need in some of the
more promising companies for business development support to help them to become export-ready. The
grant schemes envisaged would provide the ADA with a mechanism to assist selected companies with real
export potential. These schemes have not at this stage been designed in detail as much will depend, in
terms of target markets and in defining eligibility criteria, on the early research work and selection of target
sectors to be undertaken as part of this LIL. The LIL envisages that each scheme will undergo a
development phase whereby the conditions, guidelines, eligibility criteria and procedures will be closely
defined and agreed with the Bank team. It is envisaged that the schemes will be selective rather than
automatic in nature, focused on the identification of companies meeting key criteria (for example,
companies in priority target markets for Armenia and for which there is potential export market demand
for their product). Further, it is envisaged that an Approvals Committee will be established, including
some independent members, to consider and approve recommendations by ADA staff against the agreed
priorities and selection criteria. It is also envisaged that each scheme should require 50/50 matching
funding from the recipient company as a means of ensuring the company's commitment. The development
work for these schemes should closely involve the Bank team and the Bank will have the right to veto the
plans for these schemes if they do not fully meet the requirements of fit with the ADA's exports strategy,
objectivity and fairness of selection.
This component will also involve the planning and participation in exports missions in line with selected
sector priorities, and, in years two and three of the project, we will seek to develop both an
enterprise-focused export development scheme and a co-financed exhibition participation scheme.
Project Component 4 - US$0.12 million
Project Management:    Monitoring and Evaluation - This component will ensure qualitative
implementation and monitoring of the project by the experienced Project Implementation Unit. The project
will set out a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation plan, including a statement of all target evaluation
measures and planned monitoring, evaluation and reporting time-scales. Benchmark data will be collected
at the commencement of the project to act as baseline to gauge improvements throughout the project life.
-21 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
Local        Foreign       Total
Project,Cost By Component                US $million   US $million  "US $million
1. Infrastructure Strengthening and Skills Development     0.56         0.10          0.66
2. Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Exporter   0.04          0.09         0.13
Servicing
3. Investment and Export Generation                        0.18          0.22         0.40
4. Project Monitoring and Evaluation                       0.11          0.00         0.11
Total Baseline Cost                                        0.89          0.41          1.30
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'              0.89          0.41          1.30
Total Financing Required               0.89          0.41          1.30
.   -  - .  .                            Local.       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million  US $million
1. Goods                                                     0.02          0.04          0.06
2. Consultant Services and Audit                             0.31          0.26          0.57
3. ADA Incremental Operating Costs                           0.49          0.01          0.50
4. PIU Incremental Operating Costs                           0.07          0.00          0.07
5. Overseas Training                                         0.00          0.05          0.05
6. Grants for participation in exports exhibition scheme     0.00          0.05          0.05
Total Project Costs       0.89          0.41          1.30
Total Financing Required       0.89          0.41          1.30
Identifiabie taxes and duties arc 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 1.3 (USSmn). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 76.92% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-22-



Annex 4: Financial Management
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
General
A review of the Foreign Financing Projects Management Centre (FFPMC), the Project Implementation and
Management Unit (PIU) for Republic of Armenia Enterprise Incubator LIL and this project, was
undertaken in June 2001, to (i) review the presence of the necessary elements for sound project financial
management system such as internal controls, project accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements,
(ii) prepare a time-bound action plan aimed at strengthening the financial management system in regard of
managing the Enterprise Incubator (El) LIL accounting, disbursements and procurement .
Under the action plan above the following steps were implemented: Financial management/Operational
manual and chart of accounts for the El were developed; short list of auditing companies was compiled and
the Audit TOR was agreed with the IDA with no outstanding actions remaining.
The FMS in place is in compliance with the Bank's requirement under OP/BP 10.02.
Financial Risks
From the financial management perspective, the Foreign Investment and Exports Facilitation LIL is
considered as a moderate-risk project. The implementing agency has a good track record of project
management with other Bank projects. The audit reports for the Private Sector Development Project and
other WB projects implemented by the FFPMC were unqualified; they revealed no major discrepancies in
financial reporting of the entity.  Among the reasons for rating the project as a moderate-risk is
Government's possible intervention in day-to-day activities of ADA.
Project Management and Coordination - Division of Responsibility between ADA and PIW
The proposed Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), the Foreign Investment and Exports Facilitation LIL,
is a $1.3 million operation with four components. The project is designed to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of private sector investment and trade activity in Republic of Armenia, and in particular, to
stimulate a more favorable response from private investors to doing business in Republic of Armenia,
thereby making Republic of Armenia a place which is much more aligned to the culture and operations of
private companies and hence much more responsive in both policy and operational terms to their needs.
FFPMC of the Ministry of Finance and Economy is the Project Implementation and Management Unit
(PIU) for the proposed Project. FFPMC will be responsible for loan accounting, disbursements, financial
management reporting, and arranging annual project audits during the period from project effectiveness till
December 31, 2003. FFPMC has implemented a total of nineteen World Bank financed projects.
Republic of Armenia Development Agency (ADA) is the beneficiary agency for this LIL. While PIU will
be responsible for procurement, disbursement, accounting and audit of the project funds from project
effectiveness till December 31, 2003, ADA will manage operational activities under the project. The close
coordination between ADA and PIU will be required in project implementation, and clear definition of
responsibilities and authorities of each entity will be specified in Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and
financial management/operational manual of the PIU. The financial management consultant of ADA will
be attached to the PIU's Financial Management Officer for the LIL, and work closely on project
disbursements/financial management through PIU.
-23 -



An assessment of ADA's financial management capacity was conducted in December, 2001 to determine
the optimal period after which the FFPMC can hand over the FM functions to the ADA. It was decided that
the hand-over will take place by the December 31, 2003 pending satisfactory upgrade of the ADA's FM
and Procurement capacity. ADA's Financial Management arrangements and capacity will be reviewed by
the Bank staff before the FM responsibility is shifted from PIU to ADA.
Staffing
Salaries of a procurement officer, a financial management specialist, a contribution towards the salary of
PIU Director for the first 18 months of project operations will be financed by the LIL. In addition, the
project supports financial management and procurement capacity development for the beneficiary
organization, and there is an allocation for hiring a procurement and a financial management specialists at
ADA, who will work closely with PIU staff during the initial stages of the project, and will take over
procurement, accounting and disbursement functions for the project by December 31, 2003, subject to
World Bank approval of the new implementation arrangements.
FFPMC has two experienced accounting/financial management staff who have worked on financial
management and disbursement of a number of World Bank financed projects. The Chief Accountant was
suggested as a candidate to work on FIEF LIL.
Project Accounting System and Financial Reporting
The accounting staff of the PIU will maintain the accounts for the project in accordance with the key
internal control mechanisms on the application and use of funds satisfactory to the World Bank, based on
double-entry bookkeeping principles, in accordance with the borrower's regulations and Bank's guidelines.
A Chart of Accounts for the Project was developed based on classification of expenditures and sources of
funds indicated in the PAD. The Chart of Accounts shall enable data to be captured in a manner as to
facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by (i) project component, (ii) expenditure categories,
(iii) disbursement categories, and (iv) funding donors. In addition to project accounting, the PIU staff will
cover project budgeting, management of a Special Account and a project bank account.
FFPMC uses IC+, a computerized accounting system generating financial reports, which are summarized
into quarterly reports in compliance with the World Bank requirements. The computerized system was
purchased from a vendor in Russia, and was later modified by a local programmer, based on specific
project needs. The project entry screens will incorporate cost categories of the project Chart of Accounts
within two weeks after finalizing the Chart of Accounts.
Project expenditures will be recorded and reported by the PIU's accountant, based on the accounts
maintained by him/her and the information from ADA. The annual financial statements will include the
following documents: (I) a Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activity,
(iii) summaries of the Special Accounts activities and of SOE disbursements, and (iv) notes to the financial
statements. Assurances would be sought, at negotiations, that PIU will ensure that it does not claim the
same operational expenses in different projects managed by it. PIU will ensure that it records the PIU
operational expenses project by project and maintain adequate records in respect of it. The future Bank
missions will review the PIU arrangements in this respect.
Audits
- 24 -



The external audit will be contracted with an independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank and carried
out in accordance with terms of reference (TOR) cleared by the Bank and in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Besides an opinion on the financial statements the TOR will
specify that the audit report shall also furnish an opinion on the SOE and the Special Account mechanism.
As required by Bank Operational Policies, annual financial audit reports will be furnished to the Bank
within six months from the end of each fiscal year. The cost of the audit will be financed from the LIL
proceeds. It is recommended that FFPMC solicit and award a single audit contract to cover audit of FIEF
LIL and Enterprise Incubator (El) LIL, both managed by PIU. Two separate audit reports will be required
for each project, and the audit costs will be split in an agreed proportion for charging to these two projects
(60% to EI, 40% to FIEF).
Financial Management/Operational Manual
The PIU accountant developed a financial management manual for the project acceptable to the IDA. The
manual covers: (i) the financial management system proposed under the project, with special emphasis on
accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls, (ii) the role of the financial management
system in Project management and implementation, and (iv) project budgeting and planning. During
project negotiations the Bank's financial management consultant will confirm and finalize with the
borrower and PIU representatives the form and content of financial accounting and reporting arrangements.
Revised LACI disbursement procedures, under traditional disbursement option for project duration, will be
used, with Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) submitted to IDA from the project onset. Considering the
small size of the project, the simplified reporting requirements under LIL projects, and the PIU's experience
under World Bank financial reporting and disbursement guidelines, it is recommended that FMRs be used
for reporting purposes only, while disbursements will be made on a traditional disbursement basis, as
described below.
Disbursement Arrangements
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed according to revised LACI disbursement procedures,
under traditional disbursement option for project duration. The latter includes withdrawal applications for
reimbursement, direct payment and special conmmitment. FMRs will be used as a reporting tool, rather than
a disbursing tool, from the project outset. As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles,
disbursements would be completed four months after project closure. Disbursements would be made
against standard IDA documentation. Funds flow arrangements to FFPMC and ADA are detailed in the
Project Operational Manual, Implementation Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which
will form an integral part of the Implementation Agreement.
i) Special Account: To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for goods, services, and incremental
operating costs the Government will open a special account at a commercial bank to cover part of IDA 's
share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by FFPMC that will be responsible for
submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documentation for expenditures
incurred and will retain and make the documents available for review by IDA supervision missions and
project auditors. To the extent possible, all of IDA 's share of expenditures should be paid through the
special account. All expenditures eligible for IDA financing of less than US$25,000 equivalent would be
paid from the SA. The authorized allocation of the special account would be US$100,000 covering an
estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA.
- 25 -



The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a monthly
basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as may be required.
ii) Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs): All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will
be fully documented, except for expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$25,000 each or
less for goods, consultant services, operating costs, grants for exhibition scheme participation and training,
which may be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the FFPMC and will be available for
review when requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All 'disbursements will be subject
to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement
Letter.
-26-



Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      3                          3.5
First Bank mission (identification)                                        11/20/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      12/25/2001                12/25/2001
Negotiations                                    02/13/2002                 02/13/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/30/2002
Prepared by:
Karen Grigorian, Team Leader (ECSPE), Robert Whyte, Investment Promotion Officer (MIGA), Yuri
Boutaev, Consultant (ECCAR), Gayane Harutyunyan, Team Assistant (ECCAR);
Preparation assistance:
Gohar Abajyan, Consultant, ECSPE
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name=                            --     Speciality.
Karen Grigorian, ECSPE            Project design, overall supervision
Irena Tchoukleva, ECSPF           Project business processing and liaison with HQ
Robert Whyte, MIGA                Project development, Quality control and project implementation and
delivery.
Yuri Boutaev, ECCAR               Project business processing
Sanjay Vani, ECSCS                FMS
Anush Begloyan, ECCAR             Online components
Uruj Ahmad Kirmnani, ECSIE        Procurement
-27 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
Procurement
Guidelines
Procurement of goods will be done in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Consulting Services, Technical assistance and training will be procured in accordance with
the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The Borrower is required to use the relevant World Bank
Standard Bidding Documents(SBD) and ECA Regional Sample formats for procurement of Goods. For
selecting consultants, the Bank's sample documents: Standard Request for Proposals(RFP) - Selection of
Consultants, dated July 1997, revised April 1988 and July 1999 will be used.
Procurement Responsibility
The project would be implemented over a three year period by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The
project is focussed towards strengthening the skills and capabilities of Republic of Armenian Development
Agency (ADA), the main beneficiary of the proposed credit. In order to effectively initiate project
implementation, the Ministry recommended that its Foreign Financing Project Management Centre
(FFPMC), who has extensive experience in Bank financed projects, and has successfully implemented 19
Bank financed projects as the Project Implementation and Management Unit (PIU) should be made
responsible for implementing the proposed credit.
The appraisal mission conducted capacity assessment of FFPMC as well as ADA. Whilst FFPMC staff
possess requisite skills in the Bank/IDA's procurement procedures, ADA staff has no exposure to the
Bank/IDA's procurement procedures, and ADA does not have qualified staff to handle procurement.
Based on the discussions held with the concemed agencies, the mission agreed that:
i.     FFPMC would act as PIU in the first 18 months of project implementation (from project
effectiveness date till closing of calendar year 2003). During this period, one of the procurement specialists
of FFPMC, whose qualifications have been cleared with the appraisal mission, would be appointed as
Procurement Officer for LIL. He will start work on preparing procurement documents for procuring goods
and hiring of consultants, immediately after negotiations. In the meantime ADA will hire individual
consultants, who would work with FFPMC during first 18 months of project implementation, and continue
thereafter in the next stage. All the procurement files and supporting documents will be kept at the
procurement unit of FFPMC from project effectiveness date till the end of December, 2003. Likewise, the
sole procurement responsibility under the FIEF project will rest with the PIU during the same period.
ii.    ADA will undertake all functions of project implementation during second year (starting January,
2004), after the Bank/IDA re-assessment of its procurement and financial management capacity, meeting
all criteria for Bank/IDA financed projects. ADA will then take over the PIU function from FFPMC.
ADA's procurement consultant will take over the procurement responsibility in ADA's role as PIU in the
remaining period of project implementation. All the procurement files will be handed over to ADA
procurement staff by the PIU procurement officer for this project, in January, 2004. Procurement officers
of PIU and ADA, as well as ADA Director and PIU Director will sign-off under the list of procurement
- 28 -



documents handed over, and ADA will arrange safe-keeping of such documents at its premises.
Procurement Plan, Strategy, and Standard Documents
The Procurement Plan providing a timeline for each step of procurement process is attached. The first year
plan has been firmed up and agreed with the appraisal mission. Other dates in the plan are indicative only.
The procurement plan will be updated annually, and will require the no objection of IDA.
Project expenditure categories by procurement arrangement are as following:
1.     Goods, Equipment (US$61,400 equivalent, including contingencies)
Contracts for goods and equipment procured by the PIU and ADA, to support operation of this
project, include: a minivan, three cars, mini print shop, office supplies/stationery, office equipment.
The following methods of procurement will be followed:
International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for office mini print shop, cars and a
minivan estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of US$50,000.
These procedures require to obtain at least three quotations from qualified suppliers from at least two
different Bank-member countries. The ECA Regional sample format for international shopping "Invitation
to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Web Site will be applied. International Shopping total
packages estimate is 73% of all goods. (US$45,000).
*      National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for office supplies and equipment valued at less
than US$25,000 per contract and US$25,000 in aggregate. Contract award will be based on comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified suppliers to assure competitive prices. The ECA
Regional sample format for international shopping "Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA
Procurement Web Site will be adjusted for National Shopping procedures. National Shopping total
packages estimate is 27% of all goods (US$ 16,400).
2.     Consultant Services (US$574,600 equivalent, including contingencies)
Consultants services comprise about 58% of the credit amount. The consultant services are
required to strengthen ADA's capacity in export promotion, investor servicing, finance,
procurement, to acquire training services for ADA staff, to conduct different studies and analytical
reports, to acquire services for company tracking system installation and audit services. The
consulting services would be procured in accordance with the standard documents for Selection of
Consultants as explained earlier as "Consultant Guidelines". Contracts will be packaged to include
a combination of related skills and services, in order to make them attractive and increase
competition as well as to reduce the number of contracts to be managed by the PIU. The following
methods of selection will be followed:
*      Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for several specialized consulting contracts at
more than US$50,000 per contract, and auditing services, up to an aggregate amount of US$269,000
equivalent comprising less than 47% of all services procured.
*      Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) procedures will be used for consulting
services contracts at less than US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$ 176,000
equivalent (less than 31% of all services procured).
- 29 -



*      Individual Consultants (IS) will be hired under Section V of the Guidelines estimated at less than
US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$129,600 equivalent. Services of individual
consultants constitute less than 23% of all services procured.
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in "Development Business" in May 2002 issue and
will be updated annually.
Procurement Review by IDA
The following prior review thresholds have been proposed:
*      Goods: For procurement of goods (i) the first contract for IS regardless of cost, and each contract
above $25,000; and (ii) the first contract for NS regardless of the cost will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. The Bank will prior review a report on comparison and evaluation of quotations received and a copy
of the specifications along with the draft contract.
*      Consultant Services: The Bank will require a prior review for (i) all LCS contracts above $50,000
per contract, (ii) the first contract for CQ regardless of value and each contract above $25,000 per
contract; and (iii) the first contract for IC contract regardless of value, and each contract above $25,000
per contract. IDA's prior review will be required for all Terms of References (TOR), irrespective of
Contract value. Request for Proposals (RFP), Short List (SL), terms and conditions of contracts,
evaluation reports and recommendations for award, and negotiated contracts will be prior reviewed by the
Bank for contracts for firms above $50,000 equivalent, and for individual consultants above $25,000
equivalent, and amendments that will increase contract values.
*      All other contracts below the above thresholds are subject to random post review conducted
biannually by the IDA/Bank to cover at least 20% of contracts implemented in that period. In addition to
the standard ex post review, a re-assessment of the procurement capabilities of ADA will be conducted, to
advise on and to monitor transfer of project implementation responsibilities from FFPMC to ADA by
December 31, 2003.
Procurement Supervision Missions
One every six months (includes bi annual post-review as discussed above), and one mission after 16 months
to re-assess ADA's procurement capabilities. This mission will as well develop detailed procedures and
timeline according to which transfer of responsibilities and official documentation from PIU to ADA will
take place.
- 30 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method I/
ICB    NCB    Other 2/   NBF    Total Cost
1. Goods                                 0.00    0.0      0.0      0.0       0.06
(0.00   (0.00    (0.06    (0.00     (0.06
2 Consultant Services and Audit         0.00    0.0      0.5      0.0       0.5
(0.00   (0.00    (0.57    (0.00)    (0.57
3. ADA Incremental Operating Costs       0.00    0.0      0.2      0.3       0.5t
(0.00   (0.00    (0.20    (0.00)    (0.20
4. PIU Incremental Operating Costs       0.00    0.0      0.0      0.0       0.07
(0.00   (0.00    (0.07    (0.00)    (0.07
5. Overseas Training                     0.00    0.0      0.05     0.0       0.05
(0.00   (0.00    (0.05    (0.00     (0.05
6. Grants for participation in exports   0.00    0.0      0.05     0.0       0.05
exhibition scheme                     (0.00  (0.00    (0.05    (0.00)    (0.05
Total                                    0.00    0.0      1.0      0.3       1.3t
______________ ____________ _   (0.001  0.0  o  1.00    (0.00A     1.00A
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, overseas training, consultant
services, and incremental operating costs.
- 31 -



Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                     |
Consultant Service                                                       Total
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB    LCS     CQ    Other    NBF    Cost 1/
A. Firms                 0.0o    0.00   0.0o    0.27   0.18    0.0      0.0   0.45
(0.00   (0.00  (0.00  (0.27   (0.18   (0.00   (0.00) (0.45
B. Individuals           0.0o    0.0o   0.0o    0.0o   0.0     0.13     0.0o  0.13
(__ 0.00  (0.00)  (0.00,  (0.00'  (0.00  (0.133  (0.00) (0.133
Total            0.0C   0.00    0.0C   0.27    0.18   0.13     0.0    0.5
(0.14   (0.06)  (0.00'  (0.13,  (0.1 1  (0.13  (0.00  (0.57
1/ Including contingencies
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 32 -



Prior review thresholds (table B)
The following thresholds are suggested for the prior review by the Bank:
(i)  GOODS:
IS<50,000       - First contract and each contract above 25,000
NS<25,000       - First contract
(ii) CONSULTANTS' SERVICES:
LCS>50,000      - Each contract above 50,000
CQ<50,000       - First contract and each contract above 25,000
IC<50,000       - First contract and each contract above 25,000
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value  Procurement Contracts Subject
Expenditure Category             Threshold       Method     to Prior Review
(US$)                         (US$)
1. Goods                            Below 50,000.00   International First contract and
Shopping     each contract
above US$25,000
Below 25,000.00     National     First contract
Shopping
2. Consultant Services and Audit
-  Firms                        Above 50,000       LCS        Each contract
above 50,000
Below 50,000        CQ       First contract and
each contract
above 25,000
First contract and
-  Individual consultants     Below 50,000.00    Individual   each contract
above 25,000
3. ADA Incremental Operating Costs 1/        N/A            N/A            N/A
4. PIU Incremental Operating Costsl/         N/A            N/A            N/A
- 33-



PROCUREMENT PLAN
Component/         Type 2/  Estemd    Procemt       Date of    Date of     Indicative
Desc. Of Services/         (US$000)   Method 3/  RFP/ITB/Rqst Award        Completion/ Delivery
Goods 1/                                       for Quotations 4/           date
Generic staff      CS           15.0  CQ         April 15, 2002  May 15, 2002  December, 2002
training
Consultant on      CS           18.0  CQ         April 15, 2002  May 15,2002  January 1, 2003
assessment of
internettwebsite
needs, installaffon of
MIGA IPAWORKS,
development of
content, staff training
on redesigned website
Consulting firm on  CS            8. CQ          April 15, 2002  May 15, 2002  September 30, 2002
assessment of ADA
needs, installation of
company tracking
system
Consulting firm on  CS         144.0  LCS        April 15, 2002  July 1, 2002   April, 2005
SWOT analysis,
sector studies,
marketing plans,
advertising and
publications, exports
enterprise
development scheme
Staff training     CS           30.0  CQ         April 15, 2002  May 15, 2002   April, 2005
(investment/export
promotion)
Consulting firm on  Cs          45.0  CQ         April 15,2002  May 15, 2002    April, 2005
benchmarking study,
monitoring reports
and end project
evaluation
Staff training     CS           30.0  CQ         April 15,2002  May 15, 2002  December 30,2002
(investment)
Staff training (export) CS      30.0  CQ         April 15, 2002  May 15,2002    April, 2005
Consultant costs (FDI CS        55.0  LCS        April 15,2002  July 1, 2002    April, 2005
outreach initiatives),
Exports development CS          60.0  LCS        June 15,2003   Sep 30, 2003    April, 2005
consultants
Consultant on      CS           21.6  IC         April 15, 2002  May 15, 2002   April, 2005
Investor Servicing_
Consultant on      CS           21.6  IC         April 15, 2002  May 15,2002    April, 2005
- 34 -



Investment Promotion
Consultant on Finance CS         21.6  IC         April 15, 2002  May 15,2002     April, 2005
and General
Administration
Consultant on FDI   CS          21.6  IC          April 15,2002  May 15,2002      April, 2005
Outreach
Accounting/financial CS          14.4  IC         April 15, 2002  May 15,2002     April, 2005
mgmt consultant                              .
Procurement         CS           14.4  IC         April 15, 2002  May 15, 2002    April, 2005
consultant
Training coordinator CS          14.4  IC         April 15, 2002  May 15, 2002    April, 2005
and trainer -
consultant
Audit and accounting CS          10.0  LCS        November 10,   February 27,      Annually
services                                              2002          2003
Purchase of 3 cars and G       25.00  IS          April 10, 2002  June 10, 2002  July 10, 2002
a minivan
Mini Print Shop     G          20.00  IS          April 15, 2002  June 15, 2002  July 30, 2002
Office supplies for  G          16.40  NS         April 15, 2002  May 15,2002    June 15, 2005
ADA, Ministry of
Industry, Office
equipment of Mol
Overseas           OT          51.00   NA              NA            NA           April, 2005
training/experience
1/ Name of package,
contract or the cost
category by
procurement
arrangement
2/ Indicates G for
goods, CS for
consultant services, OT
for overseas training,
IOC-ADA for ADA
incremental operating
costs, IOC-PIU for PIU
incremental operating
costs.
3/ Indicates LCS for
Least Cost Selection
of consultant firms,
CQ for selection of
consultant firms based
on consultant
qualifications, NS for
national shopping for
goods, IS for
international shopping
for goods, IC for
individual
consultants.
-35 -



4/ REP-Request for
Proposals,
ITB-invitation to Bid.
- 36 -



Disbursement
The proposed allocations of the loan is shown in Table C. The IDA Credit will disburse over a
period of three years (2002 through 2005) with a closing date of December 31, 2005.
Disbursements from the IDA loan will be made in accordance with procedures outlined in the
Bank's Disbursement Handbook, through reimbursements with full documentation, against
Statements of Expenditure (SOE), and through direct payments, if required. To facilitate timely
project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account. Funds flow arrangements for the grant to
the ADA have been detailed in the Financial Management Procedures Manual. Disbursements will
be made against project costs, which are incurred and caused by the Project activities during the
implementation of the Project. The Project Disbursements will be made against four Categories.
These are:
1. Goods
2. Consultants' services, training and audit services
3. Incremental Operating Costs
a) for PIU
b) for ADA
4. Grants
The costs of procurement have been foreseen in the PAD and the Project Budget, and represent
machinery and equipment, the computer hardware and software, office furniture and equipment,
office supplies, software, vehicles and equipment (Goods), consulting and advisory services,
training activities and study tours (Consultants' services, training and audit services), and Grants.
Incremental Operating Costs of the ADA and PIU are expenditures incurred by the ADA and PIU
respectively on account of Project implementation, including salaries of non-governmental staff of
the PIU and performance bonus for ADA staff, office equipment, furniture and supplies, utilities,
operational and maintenance costs of the vehicles, small refurbishment costs, communications and
internet fees, travel for PIU and ADA, copying, reproduction and publication costs,
representation costs To be defined in the Minutes of Negotiations as investor visit/hospitality costs up to an
amount $_ to be documented., audit costs, and such other expenditures as may be agreed upon by the
Association. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines in
the "Disbursement Handbook". The project has been designed to be carried out over a period of
three years, and credit funds are expected to be fully disbursed within nine quarters after the
expected effectiveness date of April 30, 2002. The project completion date is April 30, 2005 with
a credit closing date of December 31, 2005.
-37 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category   Amount in US$ million 1/  Amount in SDR      Financing Percentage
million 1/
1. Goods                                  0.06                0.05  100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures,
(ex-factory cost) and
90% of local
expenditures for other
items procures locally
2. Consultant's services,                 0.62                0.50                100%
training and audit
services
3. Incremental Operating                                                          100%
Costs:
a) for ADA                              0.20                0.16
b) for PIU                              0.07                0.05
4. Grants for Part C (2)                  0.05                 0.04                50%
of the Project
TOTAL                                     1.00                0.80
1/ Does not include $0.3 million for ADA salaries which will be financed from the GoA
counterpart funds.
2/ Foreign consultants and firms are exempt from taxes in Republic of Armenia.
Through a Government decree, the PIU is exempt from social taxes for local consultants.
(The percentages have been calculated to reasonably ensure that taxes are not financed on the
whole.)
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed according to revised LACI disbursement
procedures, under traditional disbursement option for project duration. The latter includes
withdrawal applications for reimbursement, direct payment and special commitment. FMRs will
be used as a reporting tool, rather than a disbursing tool, from the project outset. As projected by
Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed four months after
project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation. Funds flow
arrangements to FFPMC and ADA are detailed in the Project Operational Manual,
Implementation Agreement and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which will form an integral
part of the Implementation Agreement.
i) Special Account: To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for goods, services, and
incremental operating cost the Government will open a special account to cover part of IDA 's
share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by FFPMC that will be responsible
- 38 -



for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documentation for
expenditures incurred and will retain and make the documents available for review by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors. To the extent possible, all of IDA 's share of
expenditures should be paid through the special account. All expenditures eligible for IDA
financing of less than US$25,000 equivalent would be paid from the SA. The authorized
allocation of the special account would be US$100,000 covering an estimated 4 months of eligible
expenditures financed by IDA.
The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a
monthly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as may be
required. As an effectiveness condition, the Government of Republic of Armenia will deposit
US$70,000 equivalent into the project account, to ensure timely flow of counterpart funds to
support to the project.
ii) Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs): All applications to withdraw proceeds from the
credit will be fully documented, except for: expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of
US$25,000 each or less for goods, consultant services, operating costs, grants for exhibition
scheme participation and training, which may be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be
retained by the FFPMC and will be available for review when requested by IDA supervision
missions and project auditors. All disbursements will be subject to the conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Accounts signatories:
The signatories to PIU accounts are the Executive Director and the Chief Financial Officer/Chief
Accountant. Other staff members of the PIU may be officially designated as signatories to the
accounts when necessary, through a written authorization signed by the Minister of Finance and
Economy of the Republic of Armenia.
- 39 -



Annex 7: Documents in the Project File*
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Training Plan
ADA Procurement Assessment Files
FFPMC Procurement Assessment Files
C. Other
Project Information Document
Operating Management Manual
Project Time Plan
*Including electronic files
-40 -



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
01-Mar-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                              disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                          Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P055022        2002 IRRIG DEVT                                         0.00      24.86                           0.00      22.49      -1.59      0.00
P044852        2002 ENT INCUBATOR UL                                   0.00       5.00                           0.00       4.84       0.33      0.00
P057838        2001 JUDICIAL REFORM                                    0.00      11A0                            0.00       9.93      -0.77      0.00
P065189        2001 SAC 4                                              0,00      50.00                           0.00      19.19      36.41      0.00
P044829        2000 TRANSPORT                                          0.00      40.00                           0.00      27.97      -9.71      0.00
P057952        2000 SIF 2                                              0.00      20.00                           0.00      16.98      -3.32      0.00
P064879        1999 IRRIG DAM SAFETy                                   0.00      26.60                           0.00      16.18       3.99      0.00
P057560        1999 TITLE REG                                          0.00       8.00                           0.00       3.27       1.93      0.00
P008276        1999 ELEC TRANSM & DISTR                                0.00      21.00                           0.00      17.33      16.95     10.16
P008281        1998 EDUCATION                                          0.00      15.00                           0.00       0.30       0.52      0.00
P035805        1998 MUN DEVT                                           0.00      30.00                           0.00      17.64       9.37      0.00
P035806        1998 AGR REF SUPPORT                                    0.00      14.50                           0.00       1.86       1.73      0.00
P050140        1998 HEALTH                                             0.00      10.00                           0.00       2.64       3.35      0.00
P051026        1998 SATAC 2                                            0.00       5.00                           0.00       0.60       0.74      0.08
P008279        1997 ENT DEVT                                           0.00      16.75                           0.00       0.24       1.40      0.00
Total:        0.00     298.11                            0.00     161A8       61.32      10.24
- 41-



ARMENIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000                Hotel Armenia                 0.00     0.00    3.57    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.57    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.00     0.00         3.57     0.00     0.00    0.00    3.57
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
-42 -



Annex 9: Country at a Glance
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
Europa &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central     Low-
Armenia       Asia  Income       Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-vear (millions)                       3.8      475     2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   520      2,010      420
GNI (Atlas method. USS billions)                      2.0      958      1.030
Averaae annual arowth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                        0.3       0.1      1.9      GNI                            Gross
Labor force (X)                                       1.1       0.6      2.4      GNI         .*       .       primary
Most recent estimate (iatest year avaliable. 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national Poverty line)
Urban population (% of total poculation)              70        67        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      74        69        59
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)              14        21        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             3                               Access to improved water source
Access to an imoroved water source (% of population)            90        76
lliteracyv ( ofpopulation ane 15+)                    2         3        38
Gross primarv enrollment (U of school-ape population)  87      100        96               Armenla
Male                                                         101       102                 Low-income group
Female                                                        99       68
KEY ECONOMJIC RATIOS and LONG TERM TRENDS
1980O    1990      1999     2000      Economtcratlox
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..      4.1       1.8       1.9
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                        47.1      19.5                              Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    35.0      21.0
Gross domestic savlngslGDP                           35.8      -9.3
Gross national savinosiGDP                                      0.8
Current account balancedGDP                                   -16.6               Domestic  Iv:m
Interest payments/GDP                                           0.8      0.9     savings
Total debUGDP                                                  50.5     50.1 
Total debt servicelexports                                     12.0
Present value of debtUGDP                                      35.9
Present value of debUexoorts                                  136.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GOP                                         -1.9      3.3       6.0      5.6                   Armenle
GDP per capita                       .       2.6      2.9       5.5      5.2             --   Low-Income group
Exports of aoods and services              -18.2     17.5                4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(U of GDP)                                                                       10
Agriculture                                          17.4      28.7                1
Industry                                             52.0      32.6   o           a
Manufacturina                                      32.8      23.0                            9 s o  t  s  w
Services                                             30.7      38.7       ..    -'
Private consumption                                  45.9      98.5             -20s-
General govemment consumotion                        18.3      10.7                       -G    DI        0*GOP
Imports of goods and services                        46.3      49.7
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growvth of exports and Imports (%)
Aoriculture                                           0.2       1.3              Ica
Industry                                             -7.0       5.9              so
Manufacturing                                      -8.0       5.2        o.
Services                                             -4.2       6.3       -..                 4     or   g    w     o
Private consumotion                                   4.6      -0.2
General government consumption                       -2.9      40.6              100
Gross domestic Investment                            -1.8       0.9                        -  Epons     monrts
Imports of goods and services                       -13.2       0.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four kev Indicators In the countrv (In bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
- 43-



Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic pHrces
(% change)                                                                       8 ooo
Consumer prices                                       7.7       0.6
Implicdt GDP deflator                          ..      ..       0.1     -1.3
Government finance
(% of GDP, indudes cutrrent grants)                                                       95   gs    97   Oa    99
Current revenue                                                20.3             -2,0co
Current budget balance                         ..      ..       1.8       ..                    GDP deflator  - O  C
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -5.2 
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..      ..      232         ..    1000
Gold&iewelrv & other precious stones         ..
Machinery&mechanical                        ..       ..        ..        ..     750
Manufactures                                 ..
Total imports (cif)                           ..       ..      697         ..     No -
Food                                                          129       2..     __
Fuel and energy                              .
Capital goods                                ..      ..        80        ..       o
Export price Index (1995=100)                 ..       9. ..              ..
Import price Index (1995=100)                  .                                            Exports     * Impons
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999      2000     Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and servces                  ..       ..      383
Imports of goods and services                 ..      ..       919 
Resource balance                              ..      ..      -536
Net income                                    ..       ..       55        ..                  IIIi-      -
Net current transfers                         ..       ..      174
Current account balance                       ..       ..     -307
-20
Financing items (net)                         ..      ..       307
Changes in net reserves                       ..       .         0         .     25
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)        ..       ..      305
Conversion rate (DEC. local#USS)              .. 1.22E-2      535.0    539.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..      ..      932       959
IBRD                                        ..        ..         9       8                  0:45 A: 8
IDA                                         ..      ..       352       388               F: 22
Total debt service                            ..       ..       58        44
IBRD                                         .       ..        1         1         E: 231
IDA                                         ..      ..         2         3                                   8:38a
Composition of net resource flows
Offidal grants                              ..      ..        47
OffiCal aeditors                            ..      ..        69        49
Prtvate creditors                           ..      ..         0        21           D: 90
Foreign direct Investment                   ..      ..       122
Portfolio equity                            ..      ..         0                                c: 175
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..      ..        48        71     A- IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Dlsbursements                               ..      ..        66        54     B-IDA    0- Other multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                        ..      ..         0         0     C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Netlows                                     ..      ..        65        54
Interest payments                           ..      ..         3         3
Net transfers                               .        ..       63        51
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                    1019/01
-44 -



Additional Annex 10 ADA - The Implementation Agency
ARMENIA: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
Legal status of ADA
The "Republic of Armenian Development Agency" Closed Joint Stock Company (hereinafter referred to as
"the Company") is a trade organization pursuing profit, the charter capital of which consists of a certain
number of shares confirming binding rights of the shareholders against the Company and 100% owned by
the Government of Republic of Armenia.
The Company has been reorganized by the Government Decree #219 of RA dated, April 2, 1998, and is the
legal successor of the "Enterprise Development and Investment Promotion Republic of Armenian Agency"
State Enterprise (Registration Number 06.02.1996, Certificate O1A N 022821).
When conducting its activities the Company is governed by the civil code of RA, the Law of RA on "Joint
Stock Companies" (hereinafter referred to as "The Law"), other laws and legal norms of RA and the given
Charter. The sales management authorities of the Company shares of stock are vested in the Prime Minister
of the Republic of Republic of Armenia according to the Government Decree # 519, 25. 08. 1999.
Structure of ADA
The Charter of ADA provides for but does not mandate a Board of the Company, a Board of Trustees, and
a Supervisory Board. Of these three only the Board of the Company (the Board) is appointed.
The 10 members of the Board are appointed without a fixed term by the Prime Minister of Republic of
Armenia who also chairs the Board.
ADA Organizational Structure
General Meeting of Shareholders
ADA Executive Director             ADA Board
(10 Members)
ADA Staff
(44 employees)
Figure 1. ADA Structure.
Currently the Board members are:
-45 -



1.     A. Margarian, Prime Minister of Republic of Armenia, (Chairman of the Board)
2.     V. Nercissianz, Chief Advisor to the President of Republic of Armenia
3.     K. Chshmaritian, Minister of Industry and Trade
4.     V. Khachatrian, Minister of Finance and Economy
5.     V. Movsissian, ADA, Executive Director
6.     S. Gishian, President, AGBA Bank
7.     A. Pinarbasi, Amyo-Exco Auditors, Director
8.     G. Chugazian, ITF Consultants, Director
9.     A. Bekirska, TOSP Ltd., Director
10.    C. Pilosian, Plastic Ltd., Director
General Meeting of Shareholders
The highest body of management of the Company is the General Meeting of Shareholders.
*      The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders should be held by the Company once a year and not
later than 3 months after the end of the fiscal year.
*      The annual and extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders of the Company are convened by
the Board of the Company, which decides the date, hour and the place as well as the agenda of the meeting.
The following are in the exclusive competence of the General Meeting of Shareholders:
a)    the approval of the Charter of the Company, any changes or amendments in the Charter and the
approval of the Company Charter with new edition,
b)    reorganization the Company,
c)    liquidation of the Company, appointing the Liquidation Committee, and approving the liquidation
balance sheets,
d)     approving the staff /quantity/ of the Company Board, the selection of the Board members and
ceasing the authorities of the members prematurely,
e)     defining the maximum amount of declared shares,
f)    increasing the amount of Charter Capital of the Company by increasing the nominal value of the
shares of stock or by allocating the additional shares of stock,
g)    reducing the amount of Charter Capital of the Company by buying back or the redemption of the
shares of stock,
h)     formation of the Executive Body of the Company (Executive Director, department) and early
termination of its /his/ powers,
i)     electing the members /supervisor/ of the Supervisory Body of the Company and the termination of
their Ihis/ authorities prematurely,
j)     approving the person implementing the audit of the Company,
ja) approving the allocation of the annual expenditures estimate, annual financial reports,
accounting balance sheets, statements of profit and losses and the distribution of profits and losses,
as well as approving the annual results of the activities of the Affiliates and Representations of the
Company,
jb) reducing and increasing the nominal value of the shares,
jc) initiating large-scale transactions on the purchase and sales of the property of the Company,
jd) acquiring and purchasing back the allocated shares of the Company in cases specified by law,
je) definition of the terms of remuneration of the Higher Executives and the auditor,
jf) approving the administrative and organization structure, and the payroll list of the Company,
-46 -



jg) establishing daughter enterprises of the Company and participating in daughter companies and
subsidiaries
jh) establishing the affiliates and representations of the Company,
ji) participating in other organizations,
jj) approving the internal documentation regulating the activities of the Management of the
Company.
Other issues within the competence of the General Meeting of Shareholders of the Company, assigned by
the law. The decisions of the General Meeting of Shareholders are adopted at the meeting or by means of
questionnaire. The decisions of the General Meeting of Shareholders of the Company are adopted by the
simple majority of votes of the holders of the shares with appropriate voting rights except for the cases
stipulated by law when the decisions are made by the three fourth of the votes of the holder of shares with
voting right. The vote of the Chairman of the Meeting is decisive in case of equal votes.
Executive Body of the ADA
The Executive Body of the Company is the Executive Director of the Company. The Executive Director of
the Company manages the current activities of the Company and is appointed and reports to the General
Meeting of Shareholders.
The competence of the Executive Director of the Company includes decisions concerning all the issues
stipulated by law and the given Charter, but not involved in the exclusive competence of the General
Meeting of Shareholders and the Board of the Company.
The Executive Director of the Company is authorized to:
a)     act on behalf of the Company without authorization,
b)     manage the property of the Company including financial assets,
c)     sign agreements including the labor contracts,
d)     provide authorizations,
e)     open settlement and other accounts in banking institutions,
f)    recruit and dismiss the employees of the Company according to the specified order.
Overall activities of ADA and their compliance with Project activities
The overall objective of the Company is the promotion of economic growth in the Republic of Republic of
Armenia by means of attracting investments and improving export activities.
The Company's basic functions are as follows:
*      Investment promotion
a/ promotion and support of foreign investment inflow by providing foreign investors with the necessary
information on investment conditions in RA, presenting the main advantages and business environment, as
well as providing with legal services,
b/ exposing the competitive advantages of Republic of Armenian economy and promotion of the existing
investment opportunities with the purpose of attracting foreign investments,
c/ formation and presentation of investment rating of Republic of Arnenia,
d/ conducting the information database of prospective companies for attracting investments,
e/ providing post-investment services with the purpose of investment activities expansion, business
development and the implementation of their marketing programs.
-47 -



Export promotion
a/ search for the target sectors and markets,
b/ conducting marketing researches and studies aimed at encouraging export
c/ support to exporting companies for the participation in the exhibitions, trade-fairs, providing with
information on tax, customs, commercial and other legislation, as well as on international treaties,
d/ search for funding opportunities to the exporters.
*      studying the administrative barriers to the development of business environment in RA, and
submitting proposals on their elimination to the Government of RA
*      support to small and medium business development.
*      elaborating the edition of investment projects having state importance by the order of the
Government of RA, organizing exhibitions and business forums, also performing other authorities
delegated by the government and providing "one stop shop" services to investors and exporters.
The legal status of the staff of ADA
The ADA and the Government have provided confirmation that the employees of ADA are not civil
servants and/or Government employees. The original scanned letter is attached.
Weaknesses and strengths of the ADA as an Implementing Agency for the Project
The ADA is a Government - owned and private business oriented national Agency and as such is uniquely
positioned to be the Implementing Agency for this project, since the Project aims to create an enabling
entrance to the Republic of Armenian regulatory environment This is exactly the ADA's mandate by the
Government.
The no-objection power exercised by the IDA and the TTL in regard of the Procurement and Disbursement
functions of the Project is a sufficient deterrent to possible derailing of the project by the Government.
The Board of The Company has prevalence of the private business members (6 vs. 4 Govenunent
Officials). An additional weakness is that as stated in the ADA's Charter the Board of Trustees
"..constitutes from the representatives of business and political circles whose activities are of significance
for the development of the Republic of Armenia..." As explained by the ADA and GoA in this clause the
term "representatives of the political circles" means Government officials and members of the Parliament,
both in compliance with the applicable laws. However the Board has not been appointed and does not play
at present stage a decision-making role. Overall, the Government - owned status of the ADA is not a
significant risk to the Project.
-48 -



MAP SECTION






C  -        I                                 \.                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 29596
44'                             I                                                              '**i                          A
F   GEORGIA            :,             <    a                       ,           GEORGIA         ,                     .;
C;                                                                                       -    ,      ,= g / > * _ _ 1l ,,, n X >.> ~ ~ > ,UKRAINE
L- lS)1 ;@l  f -  t  o   I:   J                                                                                             T A V U S H? b PF | ._'1T  A   V   U.S  H  ... .... bm
;-SHIRAK |     ,_ 1,,,
_/~~~~~~~~c;               -   \   IIAI                   S S~>/l                                                   1;..   rrrro t  KA. AKEISTAN4CREUU
C                  -t              eI-l -I  -I t    I,--
.1  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLMCREPUBEUC
RE   IRAQ  .
I          AZERSBAIJAN                                r4
>r      ARAGATZOTN       y/     A   K                4         x
V>r_                          R E:, /  (  -REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
'Pt rov -i- ;; \ ~~~~~~~~G E G           h.'A R K U N 'lI K,,.\-
,-.j RESERVOIRS
o  SELECTED TOWNS/VILLAGES
C. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION tMARZ) CAPITALS
ARMAVIR IG  ; -  iS-                                                                                  *  NATIONAL CAPITAL
do ~~~~~~~~~~~~~--RIVERS
P I;  FRIMARYTROADS              40' -
RAILROAIDS
REGION SMARZ) BOUNDARIES
- NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
* ,  t E  hff VAYQTS -DZOR 3
TURKEY
-     ,                            C .,- 
AZERBAIJAN ,
(NACHITtiHEVArI     I -
I        N                        Y   N I K
ISLAMIC             Arc
Thieiees wAsmde d by/            rE l IC            Re;es  R9^                                    i5F4                 10    20    30    40 Mile
zcilt.ET,,LcA,
;39 ee,a,c, h ct T              OF  IRAN
-39.  -nyclhr.nUmalionshasm                                                      -. OF  IRAN  0 >  o  10  20  30  40  50  60 Klometers  395 -
Sce. p my 4od'm_  iT, )s
Iev.l se.o  d c ymrl5 .^  y  *% T                                                             I 
O. alr eDdorJ.mU ,1 Or   \                                      t | 2 .     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C
44,      4/ 45                                                                                  47                               R'
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AY19



