                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 36556

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (IDA-36330)

                                          ON A

                    LEARNING AND INNOVATION LENDING (CREDIT)

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 0.8 MILLION
                              (US$ 1.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                         TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                          FOR A

               FOREIGN INVESTMENT & EXPORT FACILITATION (FIEF) LIL




                                       June 29, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective 06/16/2006)

                              Currency Unit = Armenian Dram (AMD)
                               AMD 420.93 = US$ 1
                                      US$ 1 = AMD 420.93

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               Janiuary 1   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADA     Armenian Development Agency
BSC     Business Support Council
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
ESW     Economic Sector Work
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
FFPMC   Foreign Financing Project Management Center
FIAS    Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FIEF    Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation
FMS     Financial Management System
FY      Fiscal Year
GOA     Government of Armenia
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IT      Information Technology
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
MIGA    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MoFE    Ministry of Finance and Economy
MTED    Ministry of Trade and Economic Development
MTR     Mid-term Review
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PRSC    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
USAID   United States Agency for International Development

                             Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director      D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
                   Sector Manager/Director       Carlos F. Jaramillo and Cheryl W. Gray
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Karen Grigorian

                                           ARMENIA
                    Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40
Annex 8. Final Report: End Project Evaluation Study                              41

Project ID: P076543                                                  Project Name: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation
                                                                     (FIEF) LIL
Team Leader: Karen Grigorian                                         TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) L/C/TF Number: IDA-36330
                            LIL
   Country/Department: ARMENIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (50%); General public administration sector (50%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Trade facilitation and market access (P); Small
                            and medium enterprise support (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/06/2001                                     Effective: 07/24/2002
     Appraisal: 12/11/2001                                         MTR: 05/15/2004
      Approval: 04/16/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
                      Other Partners:      USAID, Secretariat of the Business Support Council

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:        Carlos F. Jaramillo and Cheryl                 Samuel K. E. Otoo
                                W. Gray
Team Leader at ICR:             Karen Grigorian                                Karen Grigorian
ICR Primary Author:             Karen Grigorian and Irena
                                Tchoukleva


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall goal of this project is to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of private sector
investment and trade activity in Armenia, and in particular to stimulate a more favorable response
from private investors to doing business in Armenia, thereby making Armenia a place which is
much more aligned to the culture and operations of private companies and hence much more
responsive in both policy and operational terms to their needs.

The main purpose of the LIL, therefore, is to create a pilot around the following test:

To test prospective investors and exporters responses to the establishment of a high quality
one-stop service to facilitate private sector investment and trade. There are two closely related
elements to this test:

 First, to test private sector responses to the provision of relevant market and industry
information provision, facilitation of necessary permitting and licensing processes, and signposting
of other relevant services and regulations required by private investors and traders; and

 Second, to test private sector responses to the positive and proactive outward promotion of
Armenia as a location for new investment, through the provision of promotional activities and
missions.

The main project objectives are focused on i) improving the perception of Armenia as a
destination for foreign investment by promoting the country's competitive strengths; ii) reducing
deficiencies in investment support services by facilitating links between prospective investors and
commercial opportunities in Armenia, (iii) encouraging the transfer of technology and
management skills to Armenia, and (iv) enhancing the access of Armenia's industry to global
markets.

The development objective of the project is to attract the prospective investors and exporters to
Republic of Armenia by:

1. Establishment of a high quality one-stop window to streamline necessary transaction
processing;
2. Implementation of a promotion strategy to attract the interest of investors to a Republic of
Armenia location;
3. Creation of a private sector-focused agency working as an intermediary between private sector
and Government Ministers; and
4. Developing within the Armenian Developing Agency (ADA) the culture, skills, operation
systems and procedures necessary to accommodate and facilitate private business needs.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed during implementation.


3.3 Original Components:



                                                  - 2 -

The project contains four components:

1. Infrastructure and Skills Development: This component was intended to cover elements of the project
relevant to the whole Agency, namely technical support in the form of local consultants to ensure the
strategic direction and technical expertise required to achieve Project objectives, transportation for investor
servicing within the country, generic staff training required by Agency teams across all components of the
project (e.g. understanding company investment decision-making, project development, presentation and
negotiations skills, etc.), the upgrading of ADA internet capabilities to create a professional quality web
site as a tool for on-line investment and import/export promotion activities, implementation of a company
tracking database and compensation to the staff for the incremental activities under the Project.

2. Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Exporter Servicing: In terms of the test objectives for
this LIL, the starting point was to improve the ADA's ability to respond to and service the needs of foreign
investors and exporters which approach it with an enquiry or an interest in investing or in exporting. This
component of this project targeted efforts to improve the quality of information, investor servicing and
facilitation skills. Specific skills training was complemented by the development and implementation of
investor systems designed to allow the ADA to deal professionally with its investor contacts - enquiry
handling, investor tracking, effective presentations, investor facilitation, organizing visit programs, etc.-
and high quality information to serve the needs of investors and exporters considering expansion in
Armenia.

3. Investment and Export Promotion and Generation:
In terms of investment promotion, the Project aimed to build on the ADA's ability to professionally react to
investor enquiries by developing a more proactive approach to investment promotion, and a more effective
outreach capacity. The objective was to support the preparation of focused sector targeting studies and the
creation of tailored sector marketing materials, on which basis to provide comprehensive investment
promotion training, including outreach and follow-up techniques, and the tools and techniques of
investment promotion, e.g. cold calling, letter writing, presentations and the organization and
implementation of missions, fairs and other events. The ADA staff was also to be coached and trained in
the planning and execution of outward promotion missions to selected target markets.

In terms of its exports development, the key challenge of this component was to shift the ADA's emphasis
from one-off match-making interventions with a broad range of companies that were often not "export
ready" (which had limited return to the economy) to deeper interventions with a smaller number of
companies with real market potential to export. The capacity building work was to begin with effective
company targeting through a substantial skills training program, designed to bring as many of the required
business development skills as possible inside the agency, e.g. understanding exports markets,
understanding business, business development and wider economic development skills. This component
also involved the planning and participation in exports missions in line with selected sector priorities, and
later the development of an enterprise-focused export development scheme and a co-financed exhibition
participation scheme.

4. Project Management: Monitoring and Evaluation - This component was intended to ensure good
quality implementation and monitoring of the project by an experienced Project Implementation Unit. The
project set out a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation plan, including a statement of all target
evaluation measures and planned monitoring, evaluation and reporting time-scales. Benchmark data was to
be collected at the commencement of the project to act as baseline to gauge improvements throughout the
project life.



                                                       - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall, the project's priorities were aligned to Government priorities and the strategic direction
of the CAS, and, the development objectives were considered realistic and feasible by the World
Bank and the client.

The design team developed this project in consultation with government counterparts with the
purpose of aligning this effort with evolving government priorities. From 1994 to early 2001, the
GOA completed the first generation of structural reforms aimed at establishing markets
infrastructures, restoring economic growth and laying the basis for a sustainable economic
development. Since then, the GOA has announced a second generation of reforms with the goal
of strengthening the private sector through improvements within the business environment and
investment climate. The creation of ADA as the country's main investment and export promotion
agency, as well as the organization charged with promoting public-private dialogue, is widely seen
as one of the tools adopted by the government at the time. As part of the preparation effort, the
design team organized several workshops and seminars, in addition to targeted meetings, to
present the project's concept and implementation to officials and private sector representatives
and ensure that evolving government priorities are reflected in the project's design. In particular,
the government's drive to liberalize the trade regime and attract FDI has been identified as the key
elements for this project.

The project was in line with the CAS goals, specifically: (i) improving the business environment
by reducing administrative barriers to investment and new entry especially of foreign firms, (ii)
building effective public-private consultative mechanisms and enforcing a level playing field for
new and existing companies, (iii) private sector promotion, direct support for foreign investment
and exports, and (iv) information and advisory support for foreign investors and exporters. The
key indicators/outcomes were (i) establishment of new foreign companies, (ii) increase in
companies' exports, (iii) reduced administrative barriers to investment, and (iv) increased FDI and
exports volumes.

The design of the project was also in line with the scope of activities of structural adjustment
operations in Armenia, specifically complementing the private sector development theme by
focusing on the improvement of the business climate, investment environment and export
development. The project design also took into consideration other World Bank PSD projects,
namely the Enterprise Incubator Foundation LIL in support of the IT sector development of
Armenia.

Recognizing the imperative of having a functioning Investment Promotion Agency (IPA)
operating according to international best practice, the GOA issued a request to the World Bank to
complement the approved CAS with a new credit for strengthening foreign investment and export
promotion in the country. In response to this request, in 2001 the World Bank initiated a number
of multi-agency interventions to assess the investment environment in Armenia and recommend a
capacity-building project in support of institutional building and promotion activities of the ADA.


                                                 - 4 -

The Government's commitment to having an effective promotion agency in the country is
reflected in a number of steps it had undertaken prior to the project's effectiveness. Particularly,
the Government had allocated considerable resources for the procurement and renovation of
sizeable and appropriate premises in downtown Yerevan for ADA. Furthermore, the Government
proceeded with re-registering the organization and providing it a clear mandate, establishing a
minimum operating budget for ADA, clearing all salary arrears, hiring new top management,
reforming the organizational structure to reflect its mandates (following international best
practice) and establishing a powerful mixed public-private board of directors under the
chairmanship of the country's Prime Minister. Concurrently, the Government proceeded with the
creation of the Business Support Council (BSC), as a mechanism for facilitating direct dialogue
between the private and public sectors, and the IT Support Council, as a vehicle for promoting the
high-tech industry in Armenia. Both Secretariats of these Council's were entrusted to the ADA in
recognition of its important role in business and cluster development in the country.

An initial FIAS/MIGA assessment evaluated investment promotion and export development
efforts in the country and made a number of recommendations. During a follow-up mission in
2001, the team evaluated the progress made and recommended a long-term program. The results
of these studies were disseminated during workshops with the client and other stakeholders
including civil society representatives.

During the above-mentioned forums, both the World Bank and the client tested the proposed
initiative and planned activities against the projected outcomes. All stakeholders agreed on the
need for an innovative approach to test a number of hypotheses that were being formulated for
the first time within the context of Armenia's development. In essence, this project was meant as a
testing ground for Armenia's potential to attract FDI and expand its export structure, i.e. its
ability to improve the product and become more competitive internationally. Throughout the
preparation stage, MIGA contributed significantly towards formulating and designing activities
that meet the FIEF LIL objectives.

Moreover, in view of MIGA's experience in providing technical assistance to promotion agencies
worldwide, especially in improving capacity and providing tools for achieving sustainable FDI
inflows, it was agreed that MIGA would provide both hands-on operational assistance and a
range of investment information services. At the onset of this project, MIGA also committed to be
engaged in the supervision effort of the FIEF LIL.

Based on the above and considering the client's readiness, the World Bank proceeded with
preparing and approving a three-year Learning and Innovation Loan. The project entered into
effectiveness on July 24, 2004.

In terms of readiness for implementation, the GOA proceeded with implementing the
recommendations of the World Bank Group. These included considerable restructuring of ADA
and a commitment to co-finance the project over three years. Implementation arrangements were
finalized with the client during negotiations at World Bank headquarters. The ADA was chosen as
the implementing agency for the FIEF, while for the initial period the Foreign Financing Project



                                                  - 5 -

Management Center (FFPMC) of the Ministry of Finance was charged with the functions of
PMU.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The FIEF LIL was primarily a pilot for testing the responses of prospective private sector clients
to the establishment of an effective promotion agency aimed at attracting new investment to
Armenia and raising the competitiveness of Armenian companies in international markets. The
outcome of this pilot can be considered successful as measured by data and survey studies of
client responses.

At the onset of the FIEF, a number of baseline and target data were developed by the World
Bank/MIGA and adopted by the ADA (see Annex 1). These were used to monitor and evaluate
the effectiveness of activities being implemented under the project and, in final analyses, to
measure the outcome of the FIEF.

The analysis of these baseline and target data suggests, that ADA recorded a significant increase
in the actual number of investment enquiries received annually as a result of its activities from
2002 to 2005 (from 5 to 245), in the number of follow-up enquiries (from 5 to 141), in the
number of visiting companies (from 60 to 139), and in the number of investment decisions (from 6
to 18). Exporter responses were broadly in line with those of potential investors as evidenced by
the increase in the number of enquiries received by potential exporters over the same period (from
250 to 420), the number of follow-up enquiries (from 68 to 180), and number of attendees in
overseas exhibits (from 150 to 480).

An impact assessment conducted by the final supervision mission identified the key impact
generated through capacity building and pilot programming supported by the LIL. A list of
investors and exporters supported by ADA clearly demonstrate a tangible outcome in both areas,
as presented below.

Investment decisions made in part or in whole thanks to services provided by the ADA show that
ADA has been actively serving clients both reactively upon demand (One Stop Shop) and
proactively through pilot outreach activities in Western Europe and the USA. A certain
diversification of target countries, sectors and types of services is also evident.

The following table shows the key outputs recorded by ADA for the period 2001-05.

ADA SUPPORTED INVESTMENTS (2001-2005)

Companies            Target              Target Sectors      Types of           Reported
Assisted             Countries                               Services           Investment Value
26                   11                  12                  8                  US$165.8 million

ADA has served clients from 11 countries (India, Russia, UK, Australia, Germany, Canada, USA,
Czech Republic, Spain, Holland, Israel), thus showing a diversified target list that perhaps



                                                  - 6 -

indicates a tendency to seize all opportunities. An exception may be Russia and its affiliated
companies registered in Europe, which seem to be a target area for the senior management.

The sectors currently being serviced are equally diversified, i.e. Agriculture (including flower
growing), Construction, Food Processing, Industrial Zone/Park, Jewelry (gold and silver),
Tourism Infrastructure, Glass Production, Biotechnology, Garments, Chemical Industry, IT and
Electronics, and are consistent with ADA's constant quest to identify competitive target sectors.

In terms of service types, ADA has been at times engaged only in basic information provision
(materials, website, publications) and company presentations, and more recently in more
sophisticated (though in a limited sense) business consulting and market research, permitting, real
estate, outreach, promotion of linkages and site visits. Although investment cases, including these
services, have not been managed systematically, the clients met indicated a growing satisfaction
and trust in the Agency's capacity to handle their enquiries and other demands.

As to export development, ADA has been widely recognized within and outside the Government
circle for promoting exports through targeted international fairs and national exhibits abroad.
ADA has also provided other services to exporters and conducted a major study of target
companies in a number of target countries.

The overall value of ADA supported exports cannot be estimated due to the lack of clear
statistical data on the over 70 signed contracts according to information provided by companies.
However, ADA has developed a large list of exporting companies that have benefited from the
agency's services and are currently exporting to international markets.

The following lists the type of services and number of agreements signed thanks to ADA.

SERVICES PROVIDED BY ADA TO EXPORTING COMPANIES (2001-2005)

 Contracts        Market          Seminars        Consulting      Export           Website      Participation
 Signed           Research                        Services        Catalogue        Listing      in Exhibits
                  Services                                        Listing                       and Forums
                                                                  150 total or
 70 apprx.        40              7               58              47 as listed     81           118

The above analyses suggest that the project's development objective of attracting prospective
investors and exporters to Armenia has been achieved. This outcome is based on the project's
outputs, which have been largely designed in the project preparation phase.

The establishment of a high quality one-stop window, to streamline necessary transaction
processing, has been undertaken by ADA with the restructuring of its organizational chart
whereby a dedicated Investor Servicing Department was created. This unit currently provides a
list of over 20 types of services to potential investors interested in a location in Armenia.

The development and implementation of an investment promotion strategy was another important



                                                  - 7 -

milestone in providing direction to ADA's outreach and marketing efforts aimed at attracting
prospective investors to an Armenia location. This consisted of a participatory process involving
key stakeholders such as Government counterparts. This strategy was developed along best
practice examples and includes a list of target countries and sectors. SWOT analyses were also
undertaken to test three priority sectors (precision engineering, machinery and machine tools and
electronics) following which a revision of target niches were finalized.

In addition to achieving the above objective, the project was also able to generate an Export
Development Strategy and an Investor Servicing Strategy for ADA.

The project also targeted the creation of a private sector-focused agency working as an
intermediary between private sector and Government Ministers. Within this framework, ADA was
assigned the secretariat's role of the Business Support Council (BSC) and has been pursuing an
advocacy agenda on behalf of the private sector. The BSC has already been effective in reducing
administrative barriers for doing business and investments in Armenia and decreasing the
administrative costs for investors and exporters.

One of the main focuses of the project has been the developing within the ADA of the culture,
skills, operation systems and procedures necessary to accommodate and facilitate private business
needs. A significant amount of capacity-building initiatives have been realized, management tools
have been introduced, a Website developed, Internet access was secured and equipment procured.

The MIGA institutional needs assessment conducted at the conclusion of the FIEF reported an
overall successful completion of the project. In particular, it was recorded that there is an
increased general awareness by the staff of the mandates and promotion efforts being conducted.
MIGA IPA Performance Benchmarking Survey, which recently rated developing country IPAs on
investor enquiry handling and website quality, rated ADA very highly among 114 IPAs. In fact,
the agency was given one of the five awards as the "Leading Practitioner in the Provision of
Investor Information" at the general WAIPA (World Association of IPAs) in Geneva in March
2006.

The End Project Evaluation Study conducted by Ameria Consulting reports that "the FIEF
outcomes have met all of its objectives (see Annex 8 for an assessment summary)." On the issue
of relevance it also reports that the independent assessor," is satisfied that the FIEF is an
appropriate intervention to deliver promotional and facilitation services and has successfully done
so".

Another independent external evaluation gauging beneficiary responses was undertaken by Alpha
Plus Consulting. It confirms that at the end of the project cycle project stakeholders indicated that
ADA's promotional activities (publications, site visits, exhibits, outreach missions, etc.) have
contributed to an improved country image and overall perception of the country. In reducing
deficiencies in investment support services, the study also shows that ADA's FDI promotion
program supported by the FIEF has stimulated technology transfers into the country, as well as
had a significant impact on facilitating Armenian producers' access to global markets and on
generating FDI flows to the country. Moreover, through induced FDI, the study concludes that



                                                  - 8 -

the project has decreased the traditionally high unemployment rate through new job creation
opportunities and had significant impact on productive capacity growth by employing better
management techniques, improved access to competitive markets and technology spill-over.

4.2 Outputs by components:
        Component 1. Infrastructure and Skills Development

Under the infrastructure and skills development component, the LIL provided general training and
hands-on promotion tools to the ADA staff in order to improve their performance and raise
overall promotion capacity in the country.

One of the key inputs within this component has been the hiring of local consultants allowing for
enhanced technical capability at the agency in support of strategic goals. Local consultants
effectively supported the agency in implementing its pilot outreach activities in the Fine Chemicals
sector, producing a PR and Communication draft strategy for the agency and coaching all
departments on PR and marketing issues, reviewing the project's outputs, beneficiary responses
and monitoring results, assisting departments in managing client files and maintaining databases,
and, providing technical expertise for financial management and procurement aspects.

This component has also provided transportation means, as well as office equipment, that raised
ADA's capacity in servicing incoming investors and other potential clients.

Generic staff training in targeted areas required by ADA was also implemented. Specifically, all
ADA staff (over 40 employees) participated in language training, five senior managers
participated in a study tour at Scottish Enterprise, close to 30 employees received training in the
ACT client relationship management and case management and tracking system, the research
team benefited from project development training, presentation and negotiations skills transfer.
The project also procured the specialized Kompass database for Western European and North
American companies.

Another improvement area targeted was ADA's Web presence and Internet capabilities. The
project secured extensive training for all staff in Internet research tools, as well as transferred the
necessary tools for the in-house creation of a Website based on MIGA's IPAWorks template.
Following this successful exercise, professional consultancy was retained to create ADA's
second-generation Website, which included comprehensive information on Armenia's investment
climate, economic data, sectoral information, product information and practical information for
doing business in Armenia.

 The key outputs under this component have been:

 ADA was able to conduct a successful pilot outreach campaign in the Fine Chemicals sector
and created a portal for marketing Armenia's fine chemicals products (
www.finechemicalsmarket.com), which to-date has produced close to 800 enquiries in this sector
 A draft PR and Communication strategy was produced
 Three departments (about 30 experts) were coached on PR and marketing issues



                                                  - 9 -

 Interim and final project results, as well as client responses, were summarized for ADA by local
consultants, allowing ADA to raise its monitoring capability
 Improved client databases were made available
 Financial management and procurement tools and systems were introduced.
 Four automobiles and various office equipment were procured thus allowing for better client
servicing (over 1500 clients were estimated to have been served during this period)
 English language training benefited all employees (44)
 Five senior managers were trained at an international IPA
 30 employees were training in the ACT system
 7 research and investment promotion team members benefited from project development,
presentation and negotiations skills transfer
 The Investment Promotion Department benefited from the Kompass company database
(containing over 5000 contacts) and were able to mount three outreach activities
 Ongoing Web presence was secured for ADA and the five members of the Website team were
trained to maintain this site
 Overall staff capabilities were raised in Internet research.

         Component 2. Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Export Servicing

Under this component, ADA's capacity in serving clients was improved.

The project targeted the development of a number of publications that have been used by ADA
and the Government counterparts in promoting Armenia as an investment location. Furthermore,
the Ministry of Trade and Economic Development was provided with training in formulating FDI
policy and improving the business climate.

The establishment of a One-Stop-Shop was key to serving clients who showed interest in
investing in Armenia. The project provided an international strategic adviser for the creation of an
Investor Servicing Strategy according to international best practice, preparation of a manual on
Investor Servicing and training the Investor Servicing Department on ways and means of effective
servicing.

Within this effort, support was provided to the staff of both the Investment Promotion and
Investor Servicing departments for the development of quality information, case researches,
location handling, enquiry handling and the provision of other services. Other skills in conducting
telemarketing, research, organization of exhibits and business forums and organizing site visits
was provided.

The outputs have been:
 The following publications were prepared, updated and published annually: Country Investment
Guide, Armenia Key Figures, Banking Guide, Taxation Guide, Customs Guide, Forum Magazine,
ADA Courier.
 Four experts from the Ministry of Trade and Economic Development received training in FDI
policy development.
 A One-Stop-Shop was established on the first floor of the agency premises with adequate


                                                 - 10 -

equipment were made available for serving clients.
 An Investor Servicing Strategy was prepared, including a section on aftercare.
 Five members of the Investor Servicing Department received training on effective client
servicing and aftercare services.
 Continuous training was made available to the staffs of both Investment Promotion and
Investor Servicing departments on enquiry handling, case researches, location handling and the
provision of other services, thereby contributing towards reduced times of investor enquiries
processing and feedback.
 Numerous business forums, national exhibits, company site visits organized together with
support from local and international advisers.


        Component 3. Investment and Export Promotion

Under this component, ADA was provided with an international strategic adviser who assisted the
team, as well as Government counterparts, in developing an Investment Promotion Strategy
including target countries and sectors, as well as in providing training in key promotion issues.

Based on the identified strategic directions, a local company was selected to conduct SWOT
analyses of three prospective sectors for promotion investments. Further advice was provided
following this study to reformulate the target sectors and countries. ADA was hence provided
with strategic advisers to assist in the formulation of a proactive promotion effort, especially in
planning and executing pilot outreach campaigns in Western Europe and North America. Another
strategic adviser was attained to conduct an assessment (SWOT) of the Fine Chemicals sector and
provide strategic directions for developing the sector. Further training was provided in producing
marketing tools, i.e. sector brochures and flyers. Promotion training and advice were provided on
handling investor enquiries and case management, as well as follow-up techniques. Study tours
were organized in select industry exhibits to identify clients and conduct negotiations.

 The main outputs have been:

 Preparation and revision of the Investment Promotion Strategy based on Armenia's location
advantages and strengths.
 Long-term training and advice provided on effective promotion techniques.
 SWOT analyses conducted for three prospective sectors (Electronics, Precision Engineering
and IT) to identify Armenia's competitive advantages.
 Three outreach campaigns executed (in Western Europe and North America). Training in
company identification (use of Kompass and other resources), letter writing, telemarketing,
follow-up handling, road shows, and negotiations).
 Marketing and research capability was transferred using international strategic advisers.
 Marketing tools published, specifically sector brochures on Electronics, Precision Engineering,
IT and Fine Chemicals. Flyers on specific sectors and Armenia as an investment location
published.
 Assessment conducted by an international expert on the potential of the Fine Chemicals sector
in Armenia. A paper discussing strategic directions for developing this sector was submitted.


                                                 - 11 -

 A portal for promoting the Fine Chemicals sector was prepared and an expert was hired to
manage enquiries.
 Between 10-15 staff members were continuously trained in promotion issues. Numerous study
tours were organized mainly targeting international industry exhibits. Promotion missions were
also organized.
 Input was provided for the ADA Website.
 Potential client databases were created using the ACT CRM and follow-up enquiries and site
visits handled.

 Chart 1. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) Growth Trend



      300
                                                                        276.4
      250                                                    235.2

      200

      150                              141        153

      100     100.2
                          69.9
        50

         0
               2000       2001        2002       2003        2004       2005


*Source: Armenia Development Agency (ADA), Investment Promotion Department, annual volumes reflected in
USD millions



The FDI inflows to Armenia increased from about USD 70 mln in 2001 to USD 276.4 mln in
2005. ADA's image building and investment promotion efforts have been recognized for their role
in raising awareness about Armenia as an investment location. ADA's estimated contribution
through services it has provided is close to USD 165.8 mln over the same period (according to
investment decisions announced by companies listed in ADA's client database).



         3.2. Export Development

This component targeted the creation of a more comprehensive export development program with



                                               - 12 -

special focus on developing the export-readiness of local companies and the planning of targeted
activities.

The project provided the services of an international strategic advisor who assisted the agency and
Government counterparts in formulating an Export Promotion Strategy based on best practice.
These strategies included target sectors.

Ongoing training was provided by strategic advisers on effective export developing tools,
database management and client responses and overall export development skills.

An international adviser was involved in the assessment of the textiles and garment sector in
Armenia, as one of the prospective sectors for developing exports.

An international consulting firm was contracted to study the potential of developing key export
sectors in target markets in Europe and North America, as well as in studying the import
requirements of target countries (standards, norms and other).

The project also supported the agency in the preparation and publishing of an exporter's
catalogue in partnership with other stakeholders.

The project supported the agency's efforts in planning and executing numerous export mission
abroad and participation in international fairs.

The project also provided a matching grant for companies in order to promote better participation
at international fairs.

 The outputs have been:

 Preparation of an Export Promotion Strategy based on best practice, including target sectors.
 ADA's Export Promotion Department experts (12-15) benefited from ongoing training by
strategic advisers on effective export developing tools, database management and client responses
and overall export development skills.
 A study was produced on Armenia's textiles and garment sectors and their export potential.
 A substantial list of potential clients were contacted and listed for future contact in a number of
target countries, in line with target sectors (e.g. garments, agro-products, carpets, shoes, tools,
handcrafts, beverages, stone and quarries).
 A study of target country import norms and standards was produced and made available to
Armenian exporters.
 Exporters Catalogue was prepared and published in hard copy and CD.
 Participation in numerous export missions and international fairs was secured for hundreds of
Armenian companies after receiving technical support to ensure their readiness.
 Armenia was presented in numerous international venues (e.g. World Fair 2005 in Aichi, Japan,
International Investment and Innovation Forum and Exhibit in Saint Petersburg, Russia, Westec,
Glendale, USA).
 Over 61 companies benefited from matching grants provided to promote better participation at


                                                 - 13 -

international fairs.

Chart 2. Exports Growth Trend


                                   USD millions

                                                                         950.4
      1000

        800                                   686           715


        600                     505

                   342
        400

        200

          0
                2001         2002          2003         2004           2005



*Source: Evaluation Study Statistical Data of National Statistical Service (NSS) of Armenia



ADA's export strategy was drafted as a road map leading towards the goal of doubling Armenia's
exports within three years from USD 505 million in 2002 to about USD 1 billion by the end of
2006. While there are many external factors contributing to Armenia's exports volume growth,
clearly ADA's exports facilitation efforts played a major role in this positive trend. The fact that
the exports volume has increased over a four-year period from USD 342 mln in 2001 to USD
950.4 mln in 2005 implies that the target set is readily achievable.



         Component 4. Project Management: Monitoring and Evaluation

Under this project, local consultants were used to improve the overall financial management,
monitoring and evaluation scheme at ADA.
Training was provided on creating financial management systems, writing TORs and conducting
tenders.
A specific monitoring and evaluation tools were provided, baseline indicators created and
monitored (see Annex 1).

The outputs have been:

 A comprehensive monitoring and evaluation plan, including a statement of all target evaluation
measures were prepared.
 Long-term training was provided to the Finance Department staff at ADA (4).



                                                      - 14 -

 Training on financial management and procurement was provided to four ADA staff during an
international seminar organized by the World Bank.
 PIU functions were transferred from FFPMC to ADA.
 Preparation of periodic FMRs and submission to World Bank country FMS.
 Regular updates of procurement plans and disbursement reports.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicabe

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As evidenced by MIGA's recent institutional needs assessment, over the project's lifespan ADA
has evolved significantly from a very weak, reactive, promotion agency to a more effective, very
focused and proactive (though in a limited sense) organization capable of mounting outreach
activities, facilitating investors needs and promoting for exports. The FIEF LIL, leveraged by a
complementary assistance package offered by USAID, has created the opportunity and provided
the resources for the ADA to become a significantly more credible business organization.
Specifically, a full-time ex-patriate resident advisor, acting as the Agency's Chief Operating
Officer (COO), was appointed for the period of November 2002-2005.

One of the key indictors of this development is the current level of awareness and understanding
of the ADA staff, who benefited from a long-term and comprehensive capacity-building effort, of
the requirements of a successful IPA,. This effort ranged from language training to the
implementation of outreach activities, development of strategic directions, market research
activities and client relationship management systems. Furthermore, desk training by an expatriate
chief operations officer (COO) was provided for over two years. During this time, ADA also
engaged in the organization of a significant amount of exhibits and forums, and in outgoing
high-level state visits and special economic forums.

At the onset of LIL, and following MIGA's recommendations, the Government of Armenia
(GOA) resolved to reform both ADA's charter and organizational chart in order to reflect the
dual focus of the agency, i.e. investment promotion and export facilitation. The Government also
institutionalized a mixed public-private Board for the Agency, hence recognizing the value of a
private sector oriented and independent organization. In addition, a strong policy-advocacy role
was accorded to the ADA by assigning to it the Secretariat's functions for both the High Business
Council and the IT Council. The High Business Council is currently charged with improving the
business environment in Armenia by promoting public-private dialogue.

For the first time, investment and export development strategies, as well as investor servicing
strategy, were developed with the involvement of an experienced international strategic advisers
(ISAs). These strategies identified the country's competitive advantages and developed a
marketing message for potential clients. They also listed target sectors that were selected jointly
with ADA's staff and were verified by SWOT analyses, after which they were further revised.
This important effort consisted of a cooperative exercise that involved Government officials, the



                                                 - 15 -

ADA Board and other stakeholders. Recently, ADA also developed a draft investor servicing
strategy with the help of another ISA.

ADA has also successfully conducted several investor outreach campaigns in Europe and North
America with the help of external advisors. These hands-on exercises included client identification
using the Kompass database, letter writing, telemarketing and road-shows. Although the results
were mostly intangible in terms of new investment, the outreach campaigns nevertheless have lead
to new export orders and research contracts, particularly in the Fine Chemicals and IT sectors.
The Agency has also successfully organized outreach export missions and exhibitions.

ADA now enjoys much-improved organizational infrastructure and is well equipped to engage in
promotion and facilitation activities. A range of useful publications from investor guides to sector
brochures are regularly published and distributed during events. The Agency's new Website
initially created using MIGA's IPAWorks provides comprehensive information to foreign
investors. Access to the Internet by ADA staff has considerably improved and is now used as a
standard research and marketing tool at the agency. MIGA has also provided and trained the
ADA staff on the ACT client relationship management system, which is widely used especially in
investment outreach activities. Moreover, a number of internal and external partnerships have
been developed by the Agency, which now enjoys significantly improved levels of credibility and
trust within and outside the Government circles.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major disruptive events during the lifetime of the project. However, the strong
performance of the Armenian economy and its further integration into the global economy has
provided a significant impetus to the investment promotion and export development efforts. Over
this project's period, the performance of both the global and Armenian economies, in fact, had a
positive influence on the results of testing private sector responses to promotion and facilitation
efforts.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project Ownership

The project was designed in close cooperation with the Government of Armenia. There has been
intensive interaction with the client mostly due to the fact that the Task Team Leader has been
based in the field. The Government showed strong commitment to the project context and
ensured its smooth implementation by establishment of the Credit Management Board chaired by
the Minister of Trade and Economic development.

ADA has made great strides over the past four year and is well positioned to transform itself from
a moderately credible business organization to a very credible one capable of securing sustainable
levels of FDI inflows to Armenia.

Government Commitment to ADA's Funding




                                                     - 16 -

During the implementation phase the Government of Armenia has shown a continuous
commitment to strengthen the ADA by gradually increasing state budget allocation from about
USD 200,000 in 2002 to more than USD 320,000 in 2006.

For FY06, an initial allocation of AMD 60 million (approx. USD 140,000) has been made from
the state budget. In recognition of ADA's important role, the Government has recently resolved
to allocate an additional AMD 80 million based on a minimum operating budget. Together, these
will cover basic salaries, utilities and operational costs. However, ADA is now in the process of
partnering with other organizations in order to leverage its capability to mount promotional
activities.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project Ownership

Strong commitment and action within the ADA enabled the project to meet its goals, objectives
and targets.

Increased Capacity of ADA's Finance Department - PIU functions transfer

As already discussed, thanks to close coordination between the PIU and ADA's Finance
Department the Agency adopted a satisfactory system of internal control, accounting, budgeting
and reporting. This secured a smooth transfer of the PIU functions from FFPMS to ADA's
Finance Department during project mid-term. Thus, ADA's Finance Department was fully
equipped to implement project accounting, disbursements and financial management reporting
functions.


5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs and financing are reflected in Annex 2.

The project was designed with a sufficiently long implementation period to allow the progress
under the project components to be closely monitored and appropriately evaluated.
There were no changes in financing during the project implementation phase.
Funding for technical assistance of an in-house expatriate advisor was provided by the USAID.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as "likely". The project implementation progress being
satisfactory, it is apparent now that ADA has become a stronger and more effective institution.
ADA has shown some tangible results from its investment and export promotion activities. From
this perspective, the rating considers factors relevant to the financial, technical and institutional
aspects.

Financial sustainability has been one of the main topics of discussion between the supervision
missions and the ADA Board. Since the conclusion of the project on December 31, 2005,


                                                    - 17 -

concerns remained about the capacity of both ADA and the Government of Armenia to fund
ongoing outreach and promotional activities planned for 2006 and beyond.

ADA's Financing Sources are presented in Chart 3 below.

Chart 3. ADA's Financing Sources

                                     Financing Sources for ADA
                                               2002-2006
                    USD
                1,000,000


                  800,000


                  600,000


                  400,000


                  200,000


                         0                                                                   Year
                               2002        2003         2004        2005         2006
              Donors          16,031       31,452      13,000       20,000         0
              World Bank      100,000     223,494      205,753     626,705         0
              State Budget 208,732        205,295      224,566     250,110     322,000

                                Estimated ADA budget




Chart 3 provides the financing path of ADA over the past 4 years. It clearly indicates the
Government's continuous commitment to increase financing to the agency. The largest allocation
from the State Budget with nearly 30 percent increase took place in 2005. However, as the Chart
suggests - there is a big financing gap of about 35 percent following the completion of the LIL
project on December 31, 2005.

Current budget allocation mostly covers salaries, utilities and basic operational costs. No
additional funding is available for large-scale promotional activities, which raises the issue of
ADA's overall effectiveness. Given the Government's recognition of the ADA's performance and
strong commitment to its further development, officials expect that the GOA would gradually
increase the agency's budget over the next few years. This may bring the level of state funding
closer to the estimated required annual level of USD 500,000 in about 3-4 years allowing for
credible marketing and promotional efforts.

In two letters from Armenia's Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, the Government has



                                                 - 18 -

formally requested the Bank to consider follow-on assistance The Bank has been discussing
possible options for follow-on support that would engage more actively other donors.

As suggested by the recent supervision mission, in order to function as a credible business
organization ADA needs to consider sustainability scenarios based on low, medium and high
activity cases (subject to available budgetary and other support). In the first scenario (low), ADA
will be able to function on a minimum operating budget of close to USD 400,000 per annum
allowing it to perform basic services and engage in limited promotion activities in partnership with
other Government programs and donor projects. Optimally, ADA ought to target a medium
scenario based on an annual budget of about USD 600,000 as recommended by the mission.
According to Government officials, the GOA aims at securing funds that match a low-case
activity scenario.

In addition to budgetary financing, ADA is already leveraging funds, as done in the past, from
other government programs and donor projects for its activities. USAID has been and continues
to be one of the partners for ADA in this respect (i.e. web access funding in the past, consultancy
and the like, or the ongoing export development joint initiatives funded by DAI and the expected
input from the CAPS project). As to other government programs, ADA has received about AMD
80 mln under a separate budget line for organizing the World Fair in Aichi, Japan, in the past year,
and continues to be involved in government missions, forums and exhibits funded separately by
the government and, particularly, will be organizing the second Armenia Diaspora Economic
Forum in September 2006 under a targeted funding arrangement. The ADA has also been
conducting limited outreach activities through its resources and maintaining its Fine Chemicals
promotion effort this year. Overall, the organizational structure (including the Secretariat's to the
Council) and capacity built within the LIL framework continues to be used thanks to government
and board commitment to fund ADA's minimum operations and expenses, as well as available
project-specific complementary funding.

The technical sustainability of the project is assured by investments in the new website and other
e-programs for foreign investment matchmaking, building of ADA's technical capacity (internet-
and e-mail access for ADA's staff) and the adoption of the ACT 2000 tracking system as early as
in 2003. ACT 2000 is a modern client relationship management system (CRM) allows for
systematic tracking and case management of potential investments and useful contacts.

The institutional sustainability of ADA is expected to be ensured through enhanced Government
support. During the project's life cycle, ADA has been restructured and the staff received training
through twining initiatives - visits to Scottish Development Agency, Czech Invest, etc.. ADA has
developed a capacity to organize business forums and trade shows abroad, which, according to
the Government officials has been a very useful learning experience and should continue in future.
The Government expressed clear satisfaction with the results of the FIEF's capacity-building
program and ADA's apparent contribution to image building activities for the country. Minister of
Trade and Economic Development and other officials reiterated that ADA's IP outreach
campaign is an important learning curve for ADA and should be strengthened in the future.
ADA's capacity in organizing business forums and trade shows abroad has also been very useful
in 2005. In particular, among others, the Armenian pavilion at the Aichi World Fair in Japan is



                                                 - 19 -

deemed as a real success, as already mentioned.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At its November 2004 meeting, ADA's Board chaired by the Prime Minister of Armenia
mandated ADA's Managing Director to proceed with a formal request to the Bank for assistance
in a follow-on project to support ADA's institutional development beyond the FIEF LIL
completion in December 2005. In support of this matter, during the December 2005 Supervision
Mission, several senior Government officials (the Senior Economic Advisor to the President, the
Minister of Trade and Economic Development, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and others) also
reiterated the need for follow up donor support to continue to strengthen the ongoing investment
and export promotion initiatives and complement the scarce budgetary resources provided by the
Government of Armenia for these initiatives.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the project
is rated as satisfactory. Each of these activities was carried out in accordance with the
Government's and Bank's priorities for the sector. The identification process focused on major
issues in improvement of the existing business environment in terms of foreign investment and
export promotion campaigns. Of all alternatives evaluated by the sector management, it was
concluded that building the capacity of the existing Armenian Development Agency provides the
most, if not the only feasible solution. In addition, to respond to the need of an operation that
required to be processed in a timely fashion, the task team made a sound choice of lending
instrument. The Learning and Innovation Loan called for a shorter preparation processing time
and streamlined approval procedures.

All Bank policies relevant to technical, economic, financial, social and institutional considerations
were also adequately addressed during the project preparation and appraisal. The project has
tested the potential exporters and investors' response to Republic of Armenia's investment
environment, the establishment of a one-stop window to streamline the necessary transaction
processing and implementation of a promotion strategy to attract investors to an Armenia
location. The LIL has also tested the potential improvement of investment and business climate,
as well as enhancement of the country investment attractiveness and exports facilitation.

The World Bank Group team consisted of professional staff from the Bank's PE and PF
departments, as well as relevant specialists from MIGA and FIAS. The costs for preparing the
project amounted to just over USD 313,000.


7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of the project is rated as satisfactory on the basis of the supervision records.
Supervision reports were well written, issues were constructively addressed, and realistic
assessments of project performance were provided. The cost for Supervision, including 7
supervision missions, has amounted to USD 222,400. MIGA contributed to the supervision by




                                                  - 20 -

providing additional recourses mainly through staff time and some travel related expenses.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance for the project is rated satisfactory. As already stated, the project has
met its developmental targets. It has achieved a satisfactory rating for both developmental
objectives and implementation progress and has prepared the grounds for a subsequent follow-up
operation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall Borrower performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The Borrower
accepted the concept of the Learning and Innovation Loan instrument geared to constant testing
and benchmarking and was constructive and probative.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The Government contributed to
the project with visionary leadership with focus on activities aimed at improving the country's
image, organizing Diaspora events, participating in foreign fairs (Russia, USA, Japan etc.)
According to the Minister of Trade and Economic Development, the Government intends on
maintaining the current structure of the ADA and its annual budget funding. The Government has
been playing an important role in securing a smooth implementation and supervision of the
activities specified in the project. Specifically, at the outset if the project the Prime Minister has
issued an order establishing a Credit Management Board headed by the Minister of Trade and
Economic Development, and consisting of representatives from concerned Government agencies.
The Board has been discussing and clearing all proposed TORs, approving major outputs and
giving strategic direction in the course of the project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ADA's performance as the implementing agency is rated as satisfactory. Throughout the
implementation phase the project has been a subject to a series of supervision missions and audits,
and it has always been concluded that the ADA performed its duties with high integrity. As
discussed earlier, at project appraisal a decision was made that by the time the Agency builds up
its financial capacity, the existing Foreign Financing Projects Management Centre (FFPMC, the
PIU) under the Ministry of Finance and Economy was to undertake all project management and
auditing matters from project effectiveness. Benefiting from the coordination between the PIU
and its Finance Department, the Agency built up a satisfactory system of internal control,
accounting, budgeting and reporting by the required deadline and in line with the Bank
requirements. In addition, by March 31, 2004 ADA's Finance Department was fully prepared to
carry on all the project accounting, disbursements and financial management reporting functions.
In addition, throughout the project lifecycle, ADA acted very constructively in restructuring, staff
training, website development, Internet and e-tools adoption, etc. This undoubtedly contributed to
an improved country image for Armenia.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Throughout the project, the Borrower skillfully navigated the implementation of operations and



                                                   - 21 -

managed to successfully resolve several outstanding issues, such as salary arrears and outstanding
accounts. In addition, the Government has been steadily increasing the state budget financing of
the ADA on an annual basis.

8. Lessons Learned

The FIEF LIL was essentially aimed at the following hypotheses: did the Armenian economy
provide a sufficient basis for proactive investment and export promotion activities and did the
ADA have enough capacity to absorb an extensive capacity-building program and engage in
effective promotion activities on behalf of the GOA. On the first account, as shown by World
Bank studies, the upward shift of FDI flows in the past four years, as well as the strong showing
of the economy accompanied by improvements in the business climate, indicate that Armenia is
capable of sustaining higher rates of investment. On the second, as the results of MIGA's 2006
IPA Performance Benchmarking Survey indicate, among other indicators, ADA has graduated
into one of the best IPAs regionally and is capable of planning and executing credible promotion
programs. This success can be measured by a number of key indicators, such as independence and
credibility, governance by a mixed board, organizational chart, strategic planning, staff awareness,
capacity building measures, communication materials, event organization, success stories,
partnerships and outreach activities.

At the time of project design, the preparation team devised a project that reflected very limited
capacity at ADA, as well as very deficient investment promotion effort. While the project was
successful in raising capacity at the agency and even mounting a serious outreach, marketing,
export and servicing efforts, it could have clearly targeted more ambitious objectives that
provided more hands-on training and outreach potential for the country. Most hands-on trainings
and outreach efforts followed a lengthy process of developing strategic directions and planning
activities. In addition, the Armenian economy's very strong showing for the past five years would
have required a much larger promotion and marketing effort by the Government.

The importance of continually revisiting strategic directions/sectors identified for ADA is crucial.
As Armenia struggles with winning recognition as a viable investment location, it has
concentrated too often on traditional sectors of the economy. However, following the break-up of
the Soviet Union, much of these sectors (largely interdependent on other countries in the region at
the time) were weakened and provide very little incentives for real development. The ADA
strategies focused for too long on three such sectors (Electronics, Precision Engineering and IT)
while the actual strengths and advantages of the country clearly lie in a number of other industrial
and service sectors, as well as on its strong network of Diaspora contacts.

At the onset of the project, the World Bank Group needed to consider the agency's long-term
sustainability scenarios and secure funds for mounting a timely follow-on operation for a larger
promotion effort in the country. However, as a testing instrument, this LIL provided a clear
assessment of the promotion needs in the country and may be used for devising new assistance
tools that would aim at securing sustainable levels of FDI inflows and exports.

To become an effective organization, ADA now needs to work in a more integrated way
both at a strategic level and at a client management levels. The three strategies guiding the



                                                - 22 -

Agency are used only to varying degrees across ADA and require a better integration. The current
strategies need to be better utilized by their respective departments, and, moreover, it is essential
to build synergies between the activities of departments through joint planning and
implementation of activities, client referrals and collaboration in strategic areas. In this respect,
ADA also needs to plan its activities against strategic directions and avoid ad-hoc selection of
activities. In tandem, ADA departments need to develop specialized expertise, whether in sectoral
or networking and management issues.

The investor servicing effort at ADA needs to be boosted by using a more integrated
approach to servicing new and existing clients. Next generation or expansion projects by
existing foreign investors should be considered as means for offsetting shortcomings with the
product. This can become part of an after-care program aimed at strengthening of investor
servicing and project management skills at the agency.

The ADA Board, created at the start of the LIL, has more than 50% membership from the private
sector and is chaired by the Prime Minister. Thanks to its influential membership, it has
contributed towards achieving better recognition and credibility for ADA. It has also been
instrumental in taking key decisions and overseeing the overall functioning of the agency.
However, to become a more effective instrument, the ADA Board needs to meet more frequently
to discuss ADA's day-to-day activities and evaluate its activities against clear benchmarks that are
output based.

Another important area for future consideration is ADA's advocacy role, which should be
more strengthened as the agency strives to become a more private-sector focused
organization. Indeed, ADA can play an effective role as a conduit for relaying investor
grievances to the Government, thus contributing towards an improved business and investment
environment.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Foreign Investment and Export facilitation (FIEF) LIL financed by the World Bank in the
Republic of Armenia was drawn in the amount of 1 mln USD. The overall goal of the project was
to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of private sector investment flow and trade in
Armenia. The major project objectives were i) improving country image among potential
investors; ii) reducing deficiencies in investment support services; (iii) encouraging the transfer of
technology and management skills to Armenia and (iv) enhancing the entry of Armenia's industry
into global markets.

ADA believes that the overall goals of the project have been fulfilled. First, the overall volume of
FDI increased, among which famous brands and new jobs are created; innovative approach to
investment and export promotion has been implemented, export growth has been achieved
through domestic enterprises support and, thus, additional tax revenues from attracted
investments and export expansion were generated.




                                                  - 23 -

Two independent external evaluations conducted by MIGA on IPA Performance on the
investment enquiry handling in 2005 and 2006 demonstrated that ADA has now become the most
effective IPA in the CIS region.

The results of the FIEF LIL project are evident in several institutional capacity building areas,
particularly, in the investment promotion area. In the past three years, a systematic proactive
approach based on best practice and following a clear strategy was adopted by ADA. It included
selecting target countries and sectors which have the potential to perform, further to detailed
SWOT analysis. The list of sectors now being targeted includes information technology, precision
engineering, electronics, biotechnologies / pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals, food processing,
textiles and fibers processing. This was then followed by three outreach campaigns in selected
countries in Europe and North America (including a telemarketing effort of around 1000
companies) under the supervision of international consultants. During campaigns more than 3000
companies were targeted and contacted, presentations made to interested 30 companies during a
road show, including some to blue-chip companies such as IBM, Genzyme and Microsoft. ADA
now possesses an experienced Investment Promotion Department that is planning new outreach
programs in East Coast, USA. A new client relations management (CRM) system was introduced
and extensively used by IP Department. Currently it is a database for 7,000 potential investor
companies.

Famous brands like Microsoft and Sonics (IT Co, USA) are among attracted companies/clients.
Agreements on contracts research and trainings between Armenian and foreign companies were
signed with ADA intermediation. During the LIL program implementation the number of
investment enquires increased by 46%, follow up enquires by 50%, and foreign investor
companies visited by 35%. The level of investment in these projects constitutes more than 20 mln.
US dollars.

During many of ADA's organized export exhibitions, 53 agreements for exporting Armenian
products to target markets have been signed, as well as enterprises were assisted to certify their
products according to the requirements of these new markets.

The Export Promotion team now has the capacity to raise the level of Armenian exporters'
professional skills and provide information on target market requirements. It also has developed a
list of 1,000 potential foreign importers and distributors from the US, Canada and CIS countries
ready to cooperate with Armenian producers. It is projected that during the upcoming 3 years
agreements will be signed with at least 100 buyers mentioned on this list.

With very limited resources, country image building activities paired with training and learning
exercises were efficiently implemented during various forums and exhibition events organized and
participated by ADA's staff. For example, during Comdex, CeBIT 2004, BIO 2003 and 2004,
INFORMEX 2005, ChemSpec 2005 and other 30 business forums and events. The image of
Armenia as a producer of ecologically clean and healthy products has also been developed in
external markets.

The following promotional materials were published: Country Investment Profile, Tax Guide,



                                               - 24 -

Customs Guide, IT sector of Armenia (2 editions), Electronic Sector of Armenia, Precision
Engineering of Armenia, Fine Chemical Sector of Armenia, Fine chemicals/Biotechnology flyer
and a CD showing Armenia's economic and sector competitive advantages, all of which have
been developed and spread among potential investors. ADA also published export catalogs and
CDs, and introduced the database of Armenian products on the ADA's website www.ada.am,
therefore helping to significantly raise awareness about Armenian exporters and their products.

An innovative approach was developed in promoting the Fine Chemicals sector of Armenia. An
on-line catalog of 5,000 fine chemicals and agrochemicals, commercially viable research patents
for licensing projects were developed at www.finechemicalsmarket.com. This meant that the
promotion of Armenia as a favorable location for investment activities in R&D and fine chemicals
production, as well as fine chemicals supplier, was created, therefore contributing to an image of
Armenia as a significant source of products for international markets.

Summarizing the above-mentioned, we could state that the loan has served its purpose very
effectively. We consider the follow-up of the project to be very important and in line of economic
development in Armenia.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
USAID-World Bank Cooperation on the Foreign Investment & Export Facilitation (FIEF) LIL
was positive and fruitful. The strong cooperation delivered notable results in some areas of mutual
interest. A case in point is the improve the effectiveness and efficiency of private sector
investment and trade activity in Armenia, and in particular to stimulate a more favorable response
from private investors to doing business in Armenia. From the very start of the design of the FIEF
operation, there was close cooperation between the World Bank and USAID teams in order to
identify the problems and come up with common solutions. In the case of foreign investment
facilitation, this culminated in the preparation of Investment Promotion strategy by the World
Bank, and its implementation through the provision of long-term TA by USAID. The
USAID-funded long-term Technical Advisor who was located at ADA as a Chief Operating
Officer provided direction and technical expertise to ADA's staff. The joint Bank/USAID
cooperation was particularly helpful in providing staff training, upgrading ADA's abilities to
respond to and service the needs of foreign investors and exporters interested in investing or
exporting. The USAID/World Bank cooperation was particularly important in terms of
investment promotion since it helped create ability within ADA to build an effective outreach
capacity. With regards to export development this cooperation helped organize exports missions
and co-financed exhibition participation in various trade events. All this cooperation proved to be
very useful for the work of both institutions in Armenia.

10. Additional Information

Over the past four years, the marketing message of Armenia being an attractive investment
location has been strengthened and this has been further reinforced by the sound macro-economic
policies and the resultant double digit growth rates. The FIEF LIL project has made a positive
impact on the ADA in terms of solidifying its institutional status, providing clear strategic


                                                 - 25 -

direction and helping to provide the skills, methodologies and systems to implement the strategies.
A key factor contributing to project success in promoting the public-private dialogue has been
ADA's governance structure. As the Secretariat of the Business Support Council (BSC, the
Council), ADA has attempted to advance new reforms, monitor their implementation and provide
a feedback to private sector partners. Throughout the project ADA activities have been aimed at
improving the business climate of Armenia. In late November 2004 the BSC discussed the FIAS
report on the Assessment of Administrative Procedures for Doing Business in Armenia. At that
time, the Council decided to organize public consultations on the report and initial
recommendations made by FIAS in order to evaluate its correspondence to the reality on ground
and the feasibility of implementing those recommendations. ADA translated the entire FIAS
report into Armenian and published it in CD format, including all the recommendations in both
languages. Copies of these CDs were sent to 24 relevant public offices (i.e. Ministries,
Departments, Commissions etc.), 13 business NGOs Chambers of Commerce, Business
Associations), 10 international organizations offices (World Bank, IMF, USAID, EBRD, IFC,
Amcham, etc.) and close to 100 private sector enterprises.

Consultations, some of which chaired by the Chief Economic Adviser to the President Mr.
Vahram Nercissiantz were held at ADA. In addition, ADA conducted several workshops and
consultations with private sector representatives. Feedback was gathered from all representatives
of target groups mentioned above. In March 2005, the Secretariat (ADA) prepared a General
Report on all the comments it received. Based on the FIAS, as well as the Secretariat's Reports, a
Draft Action Plan for the Improvement of the Business Climate was prepared jointly by the
Secretariat (ADA) and the Ministry of Trade and Economic Development. This key document
reflecting the results of the consultation process organized by the BSC Secretariat (ADA) was
then sent to the Prime Minister's Office for evaluation. Based on decision No. 033-1428 dated
March 21, 2005, the Prime Minister's office has forwarded this overall document to 36 offices,
included ministries, international organizations and business NGOs with the goal of conducting
further consultations and evaluation.

The BSC board held a new meeting on March 25, 2005, to which FIAS was also invited to make
a presentation of its findings, as well as possible future developments in this area. The Board
meeting took a new decision to continue the consultation work in collaboration with the 36
offices that received the draft Action Plan. The Board's decision also specified the need to
synchronize and compare ongoing reform processes in all areas touched upon the Action Plan and
produce a comprehensive new document to be implemented. A new wave of consultations
ensured the Board's decision and lasted until August 2005. They concluded with new a set of
comments received by the various stakeholders. In September 2005, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Trade and Economic Development (securing the engagement of the public sector), a
final Action Plan for the Improvement of the Business Climate was prepared. This document is
divided up by economic sectors, as well as with annotations specifying short, medium and
long-term actions and the respective Government offices that should undertake the
implementation and supervision of the specific tasks. During the FIAS mission to Armenia in
September 2005, a final Action Plan containing about 80 specific recommendations was
presented. The BSC Secretariat sent copies of the final Action Plan to all relevant Government
offices and BSC board members in preparation of the BSC board meeting and discussion. At that



                                                 - 26 -

time, the BSC Secretariat (ADA) and the Ministry of Trade and Economic Development were
instrumental in obtaining a prime ministerial decision that requested all Government offices to
provide complete information on the collection and use of all reports and declarations requested
from private sector companies. This information was a key to compare and study the reporting
burden of private enterprises and prepare a set of recommendations aimed at eliminating
duplication and nonessential actions.

It is expected that the Government will adopt the Action Plan and prepare the implementation
steps. Following a formal request from the Government, FIAS is considering further Technical
Assistance to help the Government in implementing the core activities outlines in the action plan.
Another important initiative taken by the ADA secretariat for the High Business Council has been
the preparation of a comparative study of monitoring reports required by Government offices.

Success stories

Investor servicing - Armenian-American Food Processing Company

Armenian American Food Processing Company (AAFPC, the Company) was established in
Armenia in December 2002. ADA's Investors Servicing (IS) Department provided the Company
with an extensive range of pre- and post- investment services, including provision of the initial
sector-related information and updates on the business environment, assistance in the registration
and licensing process, business consulting, legal advice, tax and accounting information etc. The
IS Department also assisted AAFPC with site visits, liaison with Government officials and staff
recruiting campaign. The Company made first investments in 2003. As a result, due to ADA's
support in pre- and post investment period, AAFPC currently holds the largest share in the
Armenia's pasta market, employs more than 100 local staff and supplies high quality products to
more than 5,500 outlets throughout Armenia.
Investment Promotion - SONICS Company

As a result of its pro-active investment promotion activities, ADA received an initial enquiry from
the US based company SONICS (the Company) on branching out opportunities in Armenia. Due
to ADA's intensive follow-up activities, SONICS decided to make a due diligence study of the
Armenia's market. During the study ADA's Investment Promotion (IP) Department assisted the
Company with site- and techno-parks visits, and meetings with consulting, legal, accounting and
real estate firms. In addition, the Agency prepared and provided SONICS with the full set of
documents and information materials regarding specific sector-related issues, business
environment, tax and customs matters, legislation prerequisites etc. As a result, the Company
decided to establish a branch in Armenia, which was opened in January 2005.

Investment Promotion - Fine Chemicals Project

As part of the FIEF LIL project, based on the country's competitive advantages and strengths, the
Government chose a specific investment promotion strategic direction for Armenia. Among the
selected sectors, the Agency's Investment Promotion (IP) Department proposed that the country's
Fine Chemicals Sector should be explored in details. Over the past year, ADA prepared and



                                                - 27 -

published promotional and information materials, made contacts with R&D and commercial
companies active in the sector, identified experts and selected target companies from the Kompass
database and with the help of local and foreign chemical experts. In addition, as part of this
initiative ADA created a website and hired a local expert to manage the information flow. The
new www.finechemicalsmarket.com web site is a very effective technology tool that helps ADA
to expand its reach. Throughout this initiative, only for the period March-December 2000, ADA
received over 300 product requests. It is estimated that the amount of potential business for the
Commercial Producers and perhaps the Research Institutes could be approximately USD 30
million per year.

Export Promotion  2005 Aichi World Expo, Japan

ADA's Export Development (ED) Department was assigned the task of organizing and
coordinating Armenia's participation in the 2005 Aichi World Expo (March - September, 2005) in
Japan. Armenia's pavilion was built with the purpose to create an investor-friendly image of the
country and to be in line with the mainstream message of the Expo, "The Wisdom of Nature".
Regardless its very limited resources, the Agency's ED Department managed to establish an
excellent liaison with the host country and event visitors. Due to this effort Armenia's pavilion
received several awards and was granted a "Permanent Pavilion Right" by the Japanese partners.
Moreover, Armenia's history and culture were promoted though several simultaneous events.
Ultimately, this contributed to increased interest in Armenia in Japan, as evidenced by the
increased inflow of Japanese tourists and the group trade mission of Japanese businesses that
visited Armenia after the show.




                                                - 28 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

   Baseline, Target and Actual Data (as at December 2005)

   These baseline and target data have been set and agreed between the World Bank/MIGA and the
   Armenian Development Agency to be used as the basis for monitoring and evaluating the
   progress of the FIEF LIL project in May 2002, before the actual loan effectiveness. The loan
   became effective on July 24, 2002, however, due to the summer months, actual work started in
   September 2002.


                                      GENERAL FDI IN ARMENIA (1)


                                             Baseline                                 Target

    Project Performance Measures                                  Year 1       Year 2         Year 3         Year 4

                                        2000        2001
                                                 (prelim.)         2002          2003          2004           2005

    1. Level of FDI inflows ($m)         104         70             84            87             89            71
    2. Stock of FDI in Armenia           513        583            667            754           843           914
        ($m)
    3. No. of jobs in foreign owned
        companies in Armenia             (2)         (2)            (2)           (2)            (2)           (2)

    4. Exports from Armenia ($m)         447        542            566            616           665           721
            - Products                   310        354            404            437           472           517
            - Services                   137        188            162            179           193           204
   Note (1): Target estimates provided by Government of Armenia Central Bank.
   Note (2): The Central Bank was unable at the outset of the project to provide forecasts or targets for employment
   levels.




                                     FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT


                                                                              Targets
                                 Base
                                 -line       Year 1               Year 2               Year 3                  Year 4
                                              2002                 2003                  2004                   2005
                                        Planned    Actual Planned        Actual Planned        Actual Planned     Actual
For projects assisted by the
  ADA:
1.Sector targeting (outward
  Promotion)
No. of sector marketing plans      1        2         1          3          3         6          6          5         7
  prepared during the year
No. of companies contacted       190      500        40        1000        700      1,200      1,121      3.000     3815
                                                                                                           (IP)      (IP)




                                                           29

                                                                    Targets
                                 Base
                                 -line     Year 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4
                                            2002            2003            2004             2005
                                       Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned Actual
2. Investment Enquiries
   (Reacting to Investors'
   Enquiries)
No. of investment enquiries      280     350     5       600    125*     800     160     150    100(IP)
   received by ADA (3)                                           107                            145(IS)
                                                                 18
Of which number received          40     125     2       350     63      600     70             30 (IP)
   over the internet                                                                            50 (IS)
% of enquiries in target sectors 10%    20%      5      40%     60%     60%     16%     70%      70%
Average response time to           6      5               4       5       3       2       2       3
   investor enquiries (days)


3. Achieving enquiry follow
   uP
No. of follow up enquiries       110     155     5       300     65      400     75      120    61 (IP)
   received (3)                                                                                 80 (IS)
% of enquiries asking for        40%    45%             50%     52%     50%     47%            96% (IP)
   follow up information                                                                       56% (IS)
% of companies with follow         8    20%                     60%     60%     27%            98% (IP)
   up enquiries in target                                                                      25% (IS)
   sectors
4. Encouraging country/site
   visits (5)
No. of foreign investor                          38      75      60      150     104     180      139
   companies visiting Armenia
% of companies making                           35%     45%     20%     50%     27%     45%      64%
   follow up enquiries visiting
   Armenia
% of visits in target sectors                    5%     20%      8%     40%             40%      87%


5. Facilitating Government
   investment approvals (5)
No. of investors applying for                    2       10       5      20      13      25       23
   location (permits)
% of companies visiting                          5%     13%      8%     13%     13%     21%      17%
   Armenia applying for
   permits
% of companies applying for                       -     30%     12%     40%             12%      57%
   permits from target sectors
6. Generating investment
   and employment (5)
No. of company decisions to                      2        6       5      15      10      20       18
   invest
% of companies visiting which                    5%      8%      8%     10%     10%     17%      13%
   make investment decisions
% of decisions in target                          -     30%      8%     40%             50%      60%
   sectors
Level of investment in                           10      15       4      30       2      30       10
   announced projects ($m)



                                                     30

                                                                              Targets
                                  Base
                                  -line          Year 1              Year 2             Year 3            Year 4
                                                  2002                2003               2004              2005
                                            Planned    Actual Planned     Actual Planned      Actual Planned Actual
No. of jobs to be created in                            400       300      200       750       300    1000      830
   announced projects                                    (4)
Expected level of exports from
   announced FDI projects                                0.3      2.0      3.0       5.0        1.5    6.0      4.5
   ($m) -- expected annual
   level in year 2 of project
    Note (3): Enquiries received from companies requiring more than one hour's work by the ADA to respond.
    Note (4): Larger projects than anticipated on average hereafter.
    Note (5): For sections 4, 5 and 6, it was agreed that Year 1 outcomes would be the baseline.




                                                        EXPORTS

                                                                              Targets
                                  Base-
                                   line          Year 1              Year 2             Year 3            Year 4
                                                  2002                2003               2004              2005
                                            Planned    Actual Planned     Actual Planned      Actual Planned Actual
1. Generating exports
   enquiries
No. of enquiries received from
   potential exporters by ADA      200        300       250       300      280       400       370     450      420

No. of enquiries received over
   the internet *                   40         60        20       100      40        200       100     250      140

% of enquiries in sector targets
   *                               20%        35%        28       50%     45%       70%        60%    90%      80%


2. Achieving enquiry follow
   up
No. of follow up enquiries
   received                         50         75        68       100      89        160       140     200      180

of which % of enquiries
   asking for follow up            25%        25%       23%       33%     30%       40%        38%    50%      48%
   information
No. of meetings with
   prospective exporting            5          5          5         5       5         5         5       5       5
   companies (per day)

3. Facilitating companies to
   make overseas visits
No. of attendances at overseas
   exhibitions, etc                150      200-250     150     250-350    220     350-450     320   450-550    480

of which % making overseas
   visits from target sectors      10%        35%       30%       50%     45%       70%        65%    85%      80%




                                                             31

                                                                    Targets
                                 Base-
                                 line      Year 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4
                                            2002            2003            2004             2005
                                       Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned  Actual Planned Actual
4. Facilitating government
   exports licenses
No. of exports
   certificates/licenses applied  80     100     90      150     120     200     170     250      220
   for
of which % applying from
   sector targets                20%    35%             50%     45%     70%     50%     80%      70%


5. Generating exports sales
   and employment
No. of companies achieving
   new exports sales              50     75              100     73      140     80      200      140

of which % in target sectors     20%    35%             50%     45%     70%     50%     80%      60%
New exports sales ($m) -
   annual                         14     20              25      21      30      28      35       33

of which % in target sectors     20%    35%             50%     45%     70%     50%     90%      70%
No. of jobs to be created as a
   result of new exports sales   2000   2000            2500    2400    3000    2900    3500     3350

of which % in target sectors     20%    35%             50%     50%     70%     60%     90%      85%




                                                     32

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Infrastructure Strengthening and Skills Development          0.66             0.62         93.33
2. Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Exporter        0.13             0.16           120
Servicing
3. Investment and Export Generation                             0.40             0.57           143
4. Project Monitoring and Evaluation                            0.11             0.12         104.9

Total Baseline Cost                                             1.30             1.47
 Physical Contingencies                                         0.00             0.00             0
 Price Contingencies                                            0.00             0.00             0
                          Total Project Costs                   1.30             1.47
                    Total Financing Required                    1.30             1.47


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                              0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00            0.00          0.07          0.00        0.07
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00          0.74          0.00        0.74
Consultants' Services,               (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
Training and Audit
4. Incremental Operating                                                                      0.00
Costs
                                       ()               ()            ()            ()       (0.00)
a. for ADA                            0.00            0.00          0.24          0.30        0.54
b. for PIU/FFPMC                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.07)          (0.00)     (0.07)
5. Grants                             0.00            0.00          0.05          0.00        0.05
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
    Total                             0.00            0.00          1.10          0.30        1.40
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.07)          (0.00)     (0.07)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                              0.00            0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00            0.00         0.07           0.00       0.07



                                                   - 33 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.73             0.00              0.73
  Consultants' Services,                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Training and Audit
  4. Incremental Operating                                                                                         0.00
  Costs
                                             ()                ()                 ()               ()             (0.00)
  a. for ADA                               0.00               0.00              0.24             0.30              0.54
  b. for PIU/FFPMC                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.07)            (0.00)           (0.07)
  5. Grants                                0.00               0.00              0.05             0.00              0.05
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              1.09             0.30              1.39
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.07)            (0.00)           (0.07)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Total                          1.00         0.30                     1.16         0.30                  116.0    100.0




                                                          - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification
              11/20/2002                  6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                               INTL. CONSULTANT (1);
                                               MIGA ARMENIA TSK LDR
                                               (1); FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST
                                               (1); CONSULTANT (2);


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/25/2001                  8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                               INTL. CONSULTANT (1);
                                               MIGA ARMENIA TSK
                                               LDR (1); FIN. MGT.
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (3);
              02/13/2002                  8    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                               MIGA ARMENIA TSK LDR
                                               (1); FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); COUNCEL
                                               (1); SR COUNCEL (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (2);
              04/25/2002 - Site           1    TEAM LEADER (1)                   S               S
              Visit

 Supervision
              10/24/2002                  2    TEAM LEADER (1); MIGA             S               S
                                               ARMENIA TSK LDR (1);
              06/15/2003                  5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                               MIGA ARMENIA TSK LDR
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (2)
              11/21/2003                  6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                               MIGA ARMENIA TSK LDR
                                               (1); SR PROC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                               FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (2);
                                               CONSULTANT (1);
              12/06/2004                  7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                               MIGA ARMENIA TSK LDR
                                               (1); SR PROC. SPECIALIST (1);
                                               FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                               INV PROMOTION OFFICER
                                               (1) CONSULTANT (2);
              06/28/2005                  6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR          S               S



                                                - 36 -

                                           PROC. SPECIALIST (1); FIN.
                                           MGT. SPECIALIST (1); INV
                                           PROMOTION OFFICER (1)
                                           CONSULTANT (2);

 ICR
               02-05/2006             6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            SR PROC. SPECIALIST
                                            (1); INV PROMOTION
                                            OFFICER (2)
                                            CONSULTANT (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification                        2.38                            3.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 4.21                           69.1
  Supervision                          34.04                         222.4
  ICR                                   4.43                           18.2
  Total                                45.06                         313.2




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Preparation and Appraisal Documents
2. Development Credit Agreement
3. Project Mission Reports, Aide Memoires
4. Project Status Reports
5.Audit Reports
6. MIGA Institutional Needs Assessments, Back-to-Office Reports
7. End Project Evaluation Study




                                               - 40 -

Additional Annex 8. Final Report: End Project Evaluation Study

CONCLUSIONS and RECOMMENDATIONS
The Consultant's evaluation of the FIEF concentrated on two key questions:

Was the FIEF an appropriate intervention, given its underlying rationale of correcting market
failure?
Has the FIEF met the objectives set for it?

In this regard the Consultant reviewed resources, program objectives, strategic priorities,
targeting, organizational structures and activities, and performance measurements. A summary of
the Consultant's evaluation drawing together the review's findings and recommendations for
future policies is provided below. The implications of these findings and recommendations for
ADA are discussed as well.

Relevancy

The Consultant's research confirmed that there are significant misperceptions about Armenia as a
location for investment among foreign potential investors. These misperceptions and a lack of
awareness of investment opportunities have acted to reduce the level of FDI in Armenia. While
private markets also supply information to potential investors, they do not always have the
incentive and expertise to fully address these deficiencies. The FIEF appears to successfully play a
role in correcting for the under-provision of promotion services offered by the private market.
The interviews undertaken in the course of the evaluation has demonstrated there are significant
misperceptions among foreign potential investors about Armenia as an investment destination.
These misperceptions and a lack of awareness of investment opportunities have acted to reduce
the level of FDI in Armenia. Market forces alone have not redressed this situation and are not
likely to do so. Many foreign potential investors appear to have misperceptions and information
deficiencies about Armenia as a location for their FDI. These may arise from a number of possible
sources of market failure. Market forces alone are not likely to supply the appropriate level and
quality of information to correct this. The Consultant is satisfied that the FIEF is an
appropriate intervention to deliver promotional and facilitation services and has
successfully done so. The ADA is playing a part in correcting some of these deficiencies.

The following conclusions can be drawn:

There are deficiencies in the supply of information about Armenia to foreign investors, which are
reflected, to some extent, in a lack of awareness and negative perceptions of Armenia as an
investment location
Private sector intermediaries do not always have the incentive and expertise to fully address these
deficiencies and, hence, cannot be relied on to fill gaps in the international promotion of Armenia,
reflecting various potential sources of market failure in the promotion of Armenia as a location for
FDI
There are potential gains to Armenia from correcting these deficiencies.
Intervention by the ADA and Government structures through the provision of promotion services



                                                 - 41 -

is capable of addressing the promotion deficiencies and realizing some of the potential gains.

Impact on attracting investment

The Consultant is satisfied that the FIEF has been successful in attracting additional FDI to
Armenia. This is based on, among other things, the results of surveys of stakeholders involved in
the program and face-to-face interviews with them. The Consultant obtained sufficient
information to indicate that definite part of the total FDI from projects under the FIEF
could reasonably be described as locating in Armenia as a result of the program's activities.
This estimate should be treated with care, however. Factors such as the influence of other
Government programs, unrecorded FDI for program `successes' and anticipated FDI that may not
eventuate suggest this is an indicative rather than definitive figure.

Objectives and outcomes

The Consultant considers the FIEF outcomes have met all of its objectives. Two objectives,
however, need reviewing for next activities. This reflects in part the evolution of the program and
its more specific targeting of firms. It also reflects the difficulty in measuring the performance of
the program against one of its objectives and, thus, in assessing how effective the program is.
Also, the reference to technology transfer in one objective requires clarification on what type of
technology is envisaged. In view of the importance of technology transfer as a benefit accruing
from FDI, the objective needs to be supported by operational guidelines to improve the likelihood
of gains from this source. In view of the FIEF evolving relationship with other agencies of
Government - particularly in feeding the experience of the program back to investment policy
makers - the FIEF needs a stressed formal objective to acknowledge this role.

Strategies, activities and organization

The FIEF has sought to improve coordination and cooperation in investment promotion and
facilitation by Government agencies. It appears to have succeeded in this aim. It has also sought
to integrate its activities with those of private sector intermediaries in Armenia and abroad. Again
it appears to have done so and complements these activities rather than displaces them. The FIEF
strategy of targeting specific niches for investment promotion appears soundly based. The
program has generally shown its responsiveness to changing conditions by shifting resources. The
strategy of industry targeting, while cognizant of the Government's industry priorities, appears to
give investment commissioners considerable flexibility in choosing target firms and projects.
The publication activities of the FIEF have moved to targeting specific opportunities with
quantitative comparative information, although it continues with generic promotion. Interviews
with program firms and potential foreign investors and investment commissioners established
FIEF publications are a valuable marketing tool. Attention is however required to ensure they
remain focused on the requirements of potential foreign investors.

Internal performance monitoring has gradually improved since the project initiation, but the ADA
databases still have some gaps and inconsistency in measurement. This deficiency impedes a
comprehensive evaluation of the program and its activities and is an area requiring considerable



                                                   - 42 -

further improvement. The Consultant understands measures are currently under way to address
this. The matchmaking role of the ADA appears to have been useful in marketing Armenia as an
investment location. In this regard Armenian investment briefs appear to be a marketing tool of
major importance in gaining access to key decision makers in specific firms. Missions have proved
a successful vehicle for promoting Armenia, although there is some concern that the ADA needs
to develop additional guidelines or processes for assessing when and where missions are most
warranted. The organization structure of the ADA was specifically addressed by the management
consultancy which formed another part of this project review. Overall, the Consultant considers
the ADA has done much with relatively few resources and has been successfully adapted in
response to changing circumstances and experience.

Implications for resources

The resources devoted to the operation of the FIEF are relatively small in amount terms. Because
the ADA appears to correct market failure, meets its current objectives and yields benefits in
excess of its costs, the Consultant considers the funding of the agency should be expanded. The
Consultant considers these are plausible grounds for a modest expansion of program funds. As
much of the internal operation of the FIEF is influenced by the management, organization and
information flows - areas not within the Consultant's terms of reference - comment on internal
resource allocation is necessarily limited.

In parallel with the preparatory works of the Consultant in respect to this Final Report on "End
Project Evaluation of Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation Project" Alpha Plus Consulting
Company has conducted the ADA Client Survey. The assessments of the agency clients referring
to the quality of the services rendered and the works done by the respective directorates of ADA
in the frames of the mentioned Project are provided in Annex to this Report in a summarized
presentation.




                                                - 43 -

- 44 -

