Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3633 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Foreign Investment and Export Facilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 25, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3633 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of April 25, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
Page  2
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”; and
(b) 
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
“(c)  Not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and 
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ADA” means the Armenian Development Agency, a legal entity, established by 
the Borrower’s Decree No. 219, dated April 2, 1998, which will be responsible for the 
implementation of the Project;
(b)
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
Page  3
(c)
“Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and ADA pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(d)
“MOFE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economy of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(e)
“OM” means the Operational Manual prepared and adopted by the Borrower on 
January 18, 2002 and referred to in paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01(b) of this 
Agreement;
(g)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan for the carrying out of the Project 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Association;
(h)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation and Monitoring Unit  established by 
the Borrower within the MOFE  for purposes of Project management; and
(i)
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure and attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
Page  4
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and  August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and 
August 1 commencing August 1, 2012 and ending February 1, 2042. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on February 1, 2022 shall be one  percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  5
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned      repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through PIU 
and ADA, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, engineering, educational, and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through PIU and ADA, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for 
and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower, through PIU and ADA, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial statements, 
records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 6(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through PIU and ADA, 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the 
period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the 
Credit, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of  such 
funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  7
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
 
and planned 
Project 
implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period 
covered by said report.
(b) 
the first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first semester; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester. 
 ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the Borrower or ADA shall have failed to perform any of their respective
obligations under the Implementation Agreement; and
(b)
the PIP or the OM shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived 
without the Association’s prior consent.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of  sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
ADA; and
(b)
the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that there are 
Page  8
no delays or arrears in the payment of ADA staff salaries.  
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Cable address:
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)     or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Yerevan, Republic of Armenia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Page  9
By
/s/  Karen Chshmaritian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/  Owaise Saadat
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
49,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
90% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
(2)
Consultants’           
services, training
500,000
100%
and audit services
(3)  
Incremental Operating Costs:
100% 
(a) for ADA
159,000
(b) for PIU
52,000
(4) 
Grants for Part C (2) of the Project
40,000
50%
TOTAL
800,000
Page  10
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule
:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
(c)
the term “training” means the expenditures incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including travel costs 
and per diem of trainees, study tours, rental of facilities and equipment, and training materials; 
and
(d)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs of the ADA and PIU” means expenditures 
incurred by the ADA and PIU respectively on account of Project implementation, including 
salaries of non-governmental staff of the PIU and performance bonus for ADA staff, minor office 
equipment, furniture and supplies, utilities, operational and maintenance costs of the vehicles, 
small refurbishment costs, communications and internet fees, travel for PIU and ADA, copying, 
reproduction and publication costs,  representation costs and such other expenditures as may be 
agreed upon by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $25,000 equivalent each; (b) services under contracts for: (i) individual consultants under 
contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent each; and (ii) consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (c) incremental operating costs; (d) training; and (e) 
grants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to test the responsiveness of prospective investors and 
exporters in Armenia by: (i) strengthening the investment development agency to streamline 
business transaction processing and facilitate contacts between the private and public sector; and 
(ii) implementing a promotion strategy to attract investors to Armenia.
Page  11
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Infrastructure and Skills Development
1.
Provision of goods and technical assistance to strengthen ADA’s infrastructure including 
telecommunications and access to internet.
2.
Provision of goods and training to improve ADA’s staff accountability/responsiveness, 
management and negotiations skills.
Part B
: Institutional Strengthening for Investor and Exporter Servicing
Provision of goods and training to: (a) improve the quality of information provided by 
ADA to investors and exporters; (b) strengthen ADA’s services to investors; and (c) develop and 
implement investor tracking systems.
Part C
: Investment and Export Promotion Generation
1.
Provision of goods, training and technical assistance to strengthen ADA’s investment 
and export promotion capacity through: (a) development and implementation of tools and 
techniques for investment promotion; (b) development of skills to prepare outward and export 
promotion missions, fairs and other related events; and (c) improving understanding of business, 
business development, and export markets.
2.
Development of an enterprise-focused export strategy and preparation of an exhibition 
participation program through the provision of grants to businesses.
Part D
: Project Management
Provision of goods, training and technical assistance to the PIU and ADA for Project 
implementation, monitoring, and audit services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Page  12
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Except as provided in paragraph 2 below goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $25,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any request for quotations for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Part B of Section I of this Schedule estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$25,000 or more the following procedures shall apply:  
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, the 
Page  13
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 
A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
: Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit, analytical studies and other similar assignments of standard and 
routine nature up to an aggregate amount of $270,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training, monitoring reports and studies estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $176,000 equivalent,  may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount of $129,600 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Page  14
Guidelines.
Part C
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, and experience of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  All terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval irrespective of the estimated cost of the contract. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the PIU and ADA. The Borrower shall 
ensure close cooperation between the PIU and ADA so that, not later than December 31, 2003, 
ADA can become solely responsible for Project implementation, provided, that the Borrower has 
provided evidence satisfactory to the Association that ADA has the financial, administrative, 
technical and staffing capacity to carry out the Project implementation.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the PIU at least until December 31, 2003, with staff, 
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and assign to it responsibility for 
Page  15
the implementation of the Project, including: (i) managing Project expenditures and costs, 
processing Credit disbursement applications and tracking disbursements of the Credit; (ii) 
preparation of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit; (iii) management of the 
Special Account referred to in Schedule 5 to this  Agreement; (iv) maintenance of records and 
accounts related to the Project, and arranging for the audit thereof; (v) preparation of FMRs and 
submission thereof to the Borrower and the Association; and (vi) ensuring compliance of the 
procurement procedures with the provisions referred to in Schedule 3 of this Agreement. 
3
.
The Borrower shall enter into an Implementation Agreement with ADA under terms and 
conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the Association and which shall include, inter 
alia, provisions whereby: (a) the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to 
ADA in the form of a grant for the purposes of Project implementation with the exception of 
financing the costs of the PIU; (b) ADA shall be required to implement the Project in accordance 
with the PIP, OM and the relevant provisions of this Development Credit Agreement; and (c) 
ADA shall as of January 1, 2004 or such later date as the Association shall agree, as part of its 
responsibility for Project implementation: (i) manage Project expenditures and costs, processing 
Credit disbursement applications and tracking disbursements of the Credit; (ii) prepare 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit; (iii) manage Special Account referred 
to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (iv) maintain records and accounts related to the Project, and 
arrange the audit thereof; (v) prepare the FMRs and submit thereof to the Borrower and the 
Association; (vi) ensure compliance of the procurement procedures with the provisions referred 
to in Schedule 3 of this Agreement; (vii) carrying out a semi-annual monitoring of foreign and 
domestic investment environment; and (viii) other tasks required for the implementation of the 
Project.
4.
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
5.
With respect to the exhibition participation program under Part C.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall ensure that grants be provided to eligible businesses under criteria and procedures 
acceptable to the Association, including the requirement that such businesses contribute at least 
50% of the relevant costs. 
6.
The Borrower, through the PIU and ADA, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about March 30, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
 review with the Association, by May 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Page  16
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
7.
The Borrower shall ensure at all times throughout the Project implementation that there 
will be no delays or arrears in the payment of the ADA staff salaries.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3)  and (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 250,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
Page  17
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to  the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
Page  18
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
