Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6743-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MIEXICO
PORTS RETIABILITATION PROJECT
April 25, 1988
Countty Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Region
ds document has a retcted disributin and may be used by  teal. only In the PeifolaMne of
their offidat dutdes. Its contents may aot ot&ise be disc!    Wodd Bank autho&saion.



~9    *
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Mexican Peso (Mex$)
US$1          - Mex$2,270
Mrbx$1 million = US$440
(March 15, 1988)
Fiscal Year
January I-December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric:  British/US EquNvalent
1 meter (m)                   - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)               & 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)          - 2,205 pounds
I liter (1)                   - 0.26 gallon (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS                      National Bank for Public Works and Services
BANPESCA                      National Bank for Fishing and Ports
CDP                           Port Development Committee
CIFSA                         Industrial Development Consultant
CNCP                          National Commission for Port Coordination
DGPP                          Directorate General for Ports
DGP                           Directorate General for Planning
DGT                           Directorate General for Tariffs
DGOM                          Directorate General for Maritime Works
DGVF                          Directorate-General for Rail Lines
DRAGADO                       Directorate General for Dredging
ESP                           Port Services Company
FIDEMAP                       Trust Fund for Port Machinery
FONDEPORT                     National Fund for Ports Development
GUA                           Stevedoring Union for Tampico
NdeM                          National Railways of Mexico
SAHOP                         Secretariat for Human Settlements and Public
Works
SCT                           Secretariat for Communications and Transport
SEDRA                         Dredging Service
SEPOG                         ESP of Guaymas
SEPOM                         ESP of Manzanillo
SERPOVER                      ESP of Veracruz
SHCP                          Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit
SPP                           Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting
SPTA                          Decentralized Entity of Port System in Tampico-
Altamira
TEU                           Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit (Container)
TUM                           Common User Berth



t 
FOR OmFCI  USE ONLY
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTS REHABILITATION 7ROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  SUMMARY ..I.oee,eeeeee.........                      e ,             1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..................................             3
A,  The Transport System                                            3
(1)  Transport and the Economy...............,.............   3
(ii)  Institutional Framework ..............................   4
B. Bank Involvement in the Sector and Current
Lending Strategy.................ra t     e     gy.......    5
C. The Ports Subsector .6.......      ..... ..... , e    6
(i)  Port Administration and Planning 00....."............    6
(ii) Maritime Traffic                   ...                     8
(iii)  Infrastructure, Equipment and Operationsa.............    9
(iv)  Port Finances and Investment ......11
-III  THE PROJECT                                                       13
XII. T_   RJC  ....................*.............................. 13
A.  Project Origin and Objectives  .............................  13
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement   ............................  14
C.  Project Description ...***,.. .........................   14
D.  Project Cost and Financing      ............................  16
9,  Financial Prospects of Project 2orts        ......................  18
P. Ecoromic Justification ....   .....................0..........  20
G.  Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks        ....................  20
H.  Project Execution ....................  21
I.  Performance Indicators, Targets art Monitoring  ............  21
Jo Procurement *.................................eeeeeeeee   22
K.  Disbursement, Accounts and Audits        ........................   24
L.  Environmental Aspects ....................................   25
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS        .......................   25
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mexico in November 1986.  The mission comprised Messrs. Zvi Raanan, (Senior
Financial Analyst), D. Hill (Port Engineer) and Malise Dick (Senior
Economist); R Laver (Financial Analyst, Consultant), RLE.G. Smith
(Economist, Consultant), J.B. Newvman (Dredging Consultant) and K. Fratzke,
(Operations Specialist, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the peorfomne
of their ofcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authoration.



- ii -
Page No.
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
2.1 Prior Transport ........... ..................................   27
2.2  Dry Cargo Traffic at Principal and Project Ports..............   28
3.1  Detailed Cost Tables: Guaymas, Manzanillo, Tampico-Altamira,
Veracruz; Dredges
Supervision of Construction and Studies       ......................    29
3.2  Summary Accounts by Year - Base Costs.........................   35
3.3  Breakdown of Summary Accounts        ................................    36
3.4  Summary Accounts by Year - Including Contingencies............   37
3.5' Project Components by Year - Base Costs .......................   38
3.6  Project Components by Year - Including Contingencies..........   39
3.7  Summary Account by Project Component       .........................    40
3.8  Project Cost Summary ..  .....oo.oo.o.. .. ... .. ...... ...........  41
3.9  "roject Finwncing Plan ....o........o........eoo...eooeooee..o   42
4.1 Estimated Schedule of Disbursementt............................   43
ANNEXS
i   Institutional Framework of Mexico's Portso.....................   46
2   Port and Waterway Dredging......................................0....000000  48
3   Port Efficiency ..............o......................0........   53
4   Survey of Cargo-Handling Equipment           ............................    59
5   Description of Project Ports        .................................   62
6   Action Plans for Port Operators ..............................   64
7   Technical Assistance aid Studies Program      .....................    66
8   Methodology for Economic Evaluations for Project Ports  .......    70
9   Detailed Project Description        .................................   72
10  Action Program for Project Execution        .........................    76
-  Project Execution and Monitoring .............................   80
12  Doc ments in Project File ....................................   84
CHARTS
1   SCT Organization
2   SEDRA Organization
MAPS
IBRD 20359 - Port of Guaymas
IBRD 20360 - Port of Manzanillo
IBRD 20361 - Port of Tampico and Altamira
IBRD 23362 - Port of Veracruz
IBED 20358R - Transportation Network and Principle Port Locations



MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Bnaco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS).
Guarantor:           United Mexican States
Project Executing
Agency:               Secretaria de Comunicationes y Transportes (SCT)
Amount:              US$50.0 million
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate. On-lending terms
would be the same, plus a small fee to BANOBRAS for its
intermediation role.
Project Objectives:  The project would facilitate foreign trade as well as
progressively reduce Government subsidies to port
operations. Specific project objectives are to: (a)
improve port efficiency through the rehabilitation and
modernization of port operations, ilfrastructure and
equipment; (b) improve equipment management and
maintenance; (c) assist in the acquisition and
maintenance of dredging equipment and training in its
operation; and (d) strengthen port livestment planning
and financial management.
Project Description: The project would finance specific investments in
1988-1994 in the four main ports of Guaymas,
Tampico-Altamira, Manzanillo and Veracruz which handle
about 70% of non-petroleum sea-borne foreign trade, so
as to improve their efficiency, modernize cargo handling
methods and improve equipment maintenance. It would
help finance new construction and wharf rehabilitation
(30X of total costs), cargo equipment (49%), dredges
(18%), and technical assistance (3%) for the recently
formed Dredging Service - SEDRA, and provide assistance
to the Ministry of Transport and Communications (SCT) to
improve investment planning and organization in the
port-subsector.
Benefits             Port efficiency is an important element in Mexico's
and Risks:           economic recovery and iD. the Government's efforts to
stimulate trade, restructure the industrial sector and
better utilize limited public sector resources. The
last two port projects, though limited in scope, have
helped to establish a basis for rationalizing the system
of port administration and the pricing of port
services. Further Bank involvement would help improve
iDvestment planning, operational efficiency and cost
recovery policies.  The main risk is the availability of
sufficient counterpart funds to carry out investments in



a timely manner. Hmwever, this risk is small sirce the
items lcluded in the project constitute the essential
core of the sector investment program and close review
will be malntained on the overall port investment
program and in partlcular that for the project ports and
SEDRA. AMother risk will be the ability of SCT to carry
out the needed institutional reforms given conflicting
political ilterests.  Actions already taken, however,
have confirmed the Government's commitment to such
reforms.
Estimated Project Cost:  1/
- U5$ Million-
Port Civil Works                                 Local    Foreign  Total
N   nstruction                                   T1.1        8.3     19.4
Wharf Rehabilitation                              2.0        1.3      3.3
Sub-Total Port Civil Works                     13.1       9.6      22.7
Cargo Equipment
Now Equipment and Spare Parts                    13.2       19.3     32.5
Rehabilitation of Equipment                       0.9        1.6      2.5
Sub-Total Cargo Equipment                     1T4:T      20.9      35.0
Dredges
Parts, Auxiliary Craft
and Measuring Equipment                         2.7       4.0       6.7
Rehabilitation of Old Dredges                     2.7        3.8      6.5
Sub-Total Dredges                               5.4       7.8      13.2
Technical Assistance
Supervision and S..udies                          0.5        1.7      2.2
Total Base Cost:                                 33.1      40.0      73.1
Physical Contingencies                            2.9        3.3      6.2
Price Contingencies                               4.2       6.7      10.9
Total Project Costs                              40.2 2/   50.0      90.2
Financing Plan:                                        US$ Million
Local   Foreign    Total
Government                                   30.2       -        30.2
Ports                                        10.0       -        10.0
IBRD                                           -      50.0       50.0
Total                                      40.2     50.0       90.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Fiscal Year                  1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994  1995
--(UISillion)   -
Annual                       14.0 3/  9.0   13.8    5.4    4.4    2.2   1.2
Cumulative                   14.0    23.0   36.8   42.2   46.6   48.8  50.0
Rate of Return:           About 22X
1/ As of April 6, 1988.
2/ Taxes and duties amounting to US$22.3 million are included. Foreign
finaneing costs during construction is not included.
3/ Includes retroactive financing and Initial disbursement Into Spectal
Account.



-3-
IL.  1=  TRAMSPOKT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
(i) Transport and the Economy
2.01      The dramatic swings in the Mexican economy over the past 10 years
have had a significant impact on the transport s-etor. The surge in economic
activity in the late 1970's and early 1980's with GDP rising by an average 6%
per year in real terms coupled with an unprecedented demand for imported
grains led to a period of high traffic growth for all modes of transport.
The ports registered annual average increases of over 8X in cargo tons
handled from 1978 to 1981. Railway traffic increased by 5% per year from
1977 to 1981 and would have been higher except for serious operational and
physical bottlenecks. Highway traffic grew by over 13X annually during the
same period. Despite an extensive transport network, including some 225,000
km of roads (75,000 km paved), about 20,000 km of railways, 20,000 km oc
pipelines, some 33 ports serving international traffic and 50 airports
capable of handling medium and larger size aircraft, transport bottlenecks
were occurring which directly affected major economic sectors. Investment in
transport, which had declined In relative terms from 20% of public sector
investment before the 1970's to 9%, was accelerated, particularly for ports
and railways. The sectoral focus was on providing sufficient capacity to
support the oil-led growth of the economy.
2.02      By 1982, however, the rate of expansion of the economy, led by
public sector expenditures, became untenable. The fiscal deficit reached
over 17% of GDP. Subsidies had already reached over 8% of GDP by 1980.
Capital flight accelerated and the peso had to be devalued by 268% in nominal
terms in 1982. GDP fell in 1982 and in 1983. As the Government's
stabilization, demand-management program took hold, traffic declined and the
focus in the transport sector was on helping to reduce the fiscal deficit by
improving operational efficiency, curtailing investment and reducing
unwarranted subsidies. With declining personal income and industrial
activity, and substantial real increases in transport-related prices, road
traffic grew by only 4% per year from 1981 to 1985 and rail traffic by a
little over 1% annually. Port traffic declined by 3.5% over the period as
domestic grain production recovered, replacing import requirements.
2.03      During 1987 economic activity seems to have started a modest
recovery.  However, the uncertainty in the long term macroeconomic prospects
makes long range estimates of transport needs difficult. The restructuring
of Mexican industry, particularly in the steel and fertilizer subsectors, has
important implications for the transport sector. Furthermore, the focus on
promoting non-traditional exports to fuel the economic recovery suggests that
new types of commodity movements, which require higher levels of transport
services as compared with traditional traffic flows, will place new demands
on the transport system. Over the next several years, however, as budgets
remain limited, the emphasis in transport will be to: treat the backlog of
maintenance and rehabilitation works which have accumulated; minimize new
construction; and continue to rationalize public sector expenditures. A
recent Sector Strategy Paper (Green Cover, Report No. 6552-ME) provides a
broader assessment of the main sectoral issues. In addition, recent Staff



- 4 -
Appraisal Reports for the Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-MF, FY84),
the Railway Sector Project (Loan 2575-ME, FY85) and the Highway Maintenance
Project (Lo4u 2875-ME, FY88) provide a detailed discussion of land transport.
(ii) Institutional Framework
2.04      The transport sector in general is characterized by a relatively
stable and qualified cadre of high level staff which do not change
significantly with changes in Government administration. The principal
issue, however, which was continuously identified by Bank sector reviews in
the 1970's, was the lack of coordination in the transport sector due to the
multiplicity of ministries responsible for the various modes. In late 1982,
the Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT) was reorgan'szed
(Chart 1) to encompass all transport modes with three subsecretariats: one
for infrastructure, responsible for the design, execution and maintenance of
all civil works; one for operations, responsible for all transport
operations, tariffs and regulations and for overseeing parastatal
enterprises; and one for communications. ln addition, a Directorate General
for Planning (DGP), answering to the Secretary, was established with
responsibility for investment and general budgetary planning and monitoring.
While the reformulation with regard to the subsecretariats was carried out
relatively smoothly, it has taken more time to establish an effective
planning entity with the capability to handle all transport modes. Staff,
organizational and technical constraints have had to be overcome.
2.05      Planning units within the various modal directorates are
responsible for identifying and proposing capital investments and operating
budget estimates. They provide the technical details required for the
analyses of investments and, in some cases, carry out the economic
evaluations, DGP, in turn, has the responsibility for carrying out or
reviewing the economic evaluation and providing a multimodal, consistent
analytical framework for the preparation of the medium- and long-term
investment programs. The Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting (SPP) has
played an important role in ensuring consistent modal planning. The
Directorate General for Public Infrastructure and Social Development of SPP
must approve the proposed SCT investment and operating budgets and conducts a
serious review of all major investments in the sector. This Directorate is
alsen responsible for approving the budgets of the transport parastatal
enterprises and calls on the relevant directorates of SCT for their opilion.
2.06      Bank efforts through the recent loans to the various subsectors
have sought to help the Government in the upgrading of DGP's capabilities
with the belief that once DGP can demonstrate its ability to effectively
assess the various modes, iu. zole within SCT, vis-a-vis the subsecretariats,
will be enihanced. While the unit's analytical skills and tools cire
well-developed for highways, assistance has been provided to help DGP acquire
similar skills and tools for the evaluation of rail and port operations and
investments. Foreign and local consultant support has been contracted and a
team of young engineers has been organized as the analytical core of DGP.
Currently, consultants are working to develop a sectoral data base, to
develop and upgrade a set of consistent evaluation methodologies and to
prepare draft operational and investment strategies, for each *ode. The
objective is to have established a well-organlzed and trained planning unit



-5 -
by the end of 1988 with a well-defined sector strategy for the new
administration.
B. Bank Involvement in the Sector and Current Lending Strategy
2.07      The Bank has made a total of 20 loans to transport to date covering
roads (11), railways (5), ports (3) and air (1) (Table 2.1). In ports the
first IBRD loan of $20 million was made in 1972 and started the process of
rationalizing the organization of the subsector through the creation of port
operations companies (ESPs) and a central equipment fund (FIDEMAP). Further
institutional improvements are taking place under the current Lazaro Cardenas
Industrial Port Project (Loan 2450-ME). While there have been substantial
advances in terms of investment planning, design and construction and
operational improvements under these projects, prior to 1982 there was much
less success or dialogue about policy issues regarding pricing, user charges,
regulation and subsidies. The problem was partially institutional, with the
loans going to the Secretariat of Public Works (SAHOP) or the railways for
example, while the policies were determined by another secretariat. There
was also, however, a basic difference in outlook. Project Completion Reports
for Highways (Ln. 1671-ME), Railways (Ln. 1232-ME) and Ports (Ln. 1964-ME),
have noted that although the quality of work executed is satisfactory, cost
changes, construction delays and Insufficient budget allocations have
generally resulted in delayed completion of Bank projects. On the other
hand, sector projects in highways, railways and the Port Development
Preparation project have brought about a much more consistent approach to
Investment planning and the use of feasibility studies in the transport
sector, as well as a dialogue with the SCT on p:icing policies and
administrative improvements.
2.08      Since the change of administration in 1982, the role of the BUnk in
the sector has changed significantly. The two basic reasons for the change
were the Institutional reorganization bringing SCT and SAHOP together (para
2.04) and, more importantly, the economic crisis highlighted the need to
confront major policy issues. With the reorganization of SCT, the raising of
fuel prices to international levels, the increase and reclassification of
railway freight tariffs reducing railway operating ratios from 145 in 1981 to
95 in 1985, the enactment of a comprehensive contract between Government and
the National Railways (NdeM) to improve the railway operations and financial
status, and the preparation of studies and concrete proposals to rationalize
and Improve cost recovery for roads and administration of the ports, the
Government showed its commitment to take the necessary actions in the
sector. The Bank responded with a comprehensive lending program resulting in
the Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME, FY84), the Lazaro Cardenas
Port Project (Loan 2450-ME, FY84), the Chiapas Rural Roads Project (Loan
2525-ME, FY85) and the Railway Sector Project (Loan 2575-ME, FY85) and the
Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2875-ME, FY88).
2.09      The extended economic recession, exacerbated by the fall in
international oil prices coupled with the fact that the administration is in
its last two years, have led to a more limited lending program for the
sector. The present lending strategy is directed at meeting the lmmediate
needs of the present administration, as well as providing a financing bridge
into the early years of the new administration. In the ports subsector, the
proposed project is designed to rationalisse public sector investment as well



- 6 -
as improve and strengthen the institutional framework developed by the
current administration for the subsector - with a view to establishing
greater financial and managerial autonomy for the principal ports. To this
end, a condition of negotiation was the preparation of a ports policy paper
by SCT, which could serve as a satisfactory basis for such negotiations.
This was received before the invitation to negotiate was sent.
C. The Ports Subsector
(i) Port Administration and Planning
2.10      There is no comprehensive system of port administration in Mexico.
Planning and control is split between a number of Government agencies and
port operations are in the hands of commercially constituted, mainly
Government-owned, operating companies except in two important ports, Tampico
and Veracrus, where labor unions control the operations. At the national
level, responsibilities for the port subsector are divided between the
Infrastructure and the Operations subsecretariats of SCT, the National Port
Coordinating Commission (CNCP) and the National Port Development Fund
(FONDEPORT). The Directorate General for Marine Works (DGOM), %hich comes
under the Subsecretariat for Infrastructure, is responsible for port
construction while the Directorate General for Ports (DGPP), which comes
uder the Subsecretariat for Operations, is responsible for overall port
operations (see Chart 1). Some of the functions of these two Directorates
overlap with those of the CNCP which is responsible for coordinating port
development plz.aning and policy, as well as for serviDg as a vehicle to
consult port users on port development. CNCP also has Directorates General
responsible for port administration, port systems analysis and industrial
ports and is the 'holding company', on the Government's behalf, of the
majority of the shares in the Port Services Companies (ESPs) - the port
operating companies (para 2.13). Since 1985, CNCP has been the principal
recipient of port dues with responsibility for their allocation among the
countries' ports, subject to SPP approval. During the current administration
CNCP has played the key role in determinirg the direction of port policy.
Another institution with a specialized role is FONDEPORT, a trust fund under
SCT's jurisdiction, which has responsibility for the development, sale and/or
lease of land adjacent to port areas. In the last two years, SCT has been
making an effort to coordinate the efforts of all these agencies through DGP
as the central planning agency for all modes of trarsport. A more detailed
description of the various agencies and an analysis of the institutional
framework at the time of appraisal is given in Annex 1.
2.11      At the local level, DGPP has Sttperintendencies in each of the
principal ports which are, on behalf of SCT, the agencies supposedly owning
the port facilities, responsible for their maintenance and controlling all
port operations. Until 1985, port dues were collected by the
Superintendencies. Since then, however, collection of dues and tariffs have
been consolidated and been made the responsibility of the ESPs (para 2.13).
Maintenance of port infrastructure, until 1986 a responsibility of the
Superintendencies, has also been transferred to ESPs with regard to the
landside installations, leaving the former with reduced functions, though not
in all cases with reduced personnel. In the four project ports, maintenance
personnel has been transferred to ESPs and to SPTA respectively.



- 7 -
2.12      Because of the proliferation of different Government agencies'
representatives at the local level, an SCT regulation In February 1984
provided the legal basis for the esitablishment of a Port Development
Committee (CDP) as overall coordinating body in each principal port or group
of ports. All local agencies dealing in port matters (including principal
users) are represented in the CDP. The CDPs prepare development plans, agree
on annual operating plans, supervise the purchase and maintenance of
equipment and generally are supposed to be the normative body for all
operations, development and navigation matters. The CDPs meet every two
months and set up the working groups, when necessary, to perform their
assigned functions. By coordinating the work of all the Government agencies
at local level, rather than each agency referring decisions to Mexico City,
ports thus respond more efficiently to user needs.
2.13      With a few exceptions, notably that of Tampico-Altamira (para
2.14), the ports are operated by local port service companies (ESPs) set up
under the first port project (Loan 820-ME) in the 1970's as commercially
constituted operators which are jointly owned by the Governmes.t through CNCP,
(which acts as a holding company of most of the shares), port unions and port
users. The nature of these companies and their efficiency vary. SCT has
decided to widen the powers of the ESPs by giving them broader
responsibility, including that for port equipment acquisition and
maintenance, cargo storage, and collection of all port tariffs and dues. The
latter, however, are collected on behalf of CNCP and revenues therefrom do
not pass through the ESPs' accounts. In some of the main ports on the
Pacific, e.g., Lazaro Cardenas, Guaymas and Manzanillo, the ESPs'
administrations and operations are being strengthened through the addition of
more highly qualified staif for administration, finance, statisticc,
maintenance, and operations.
2.14      The case of Tampico-Altamira is a special one.  With the completion
in 1985 of the one-wharf public terminal in the new industrial port of
Altamira (z3me 30 km north of the old river-port of Tampico), the Government
establish.d the Tampico-Altamira Port System (SPTA) as a possible prototype
decentralized (regional) Port Authority to take responsibility, on the
Government's behalf, for the integrated development, administration and
operation of the two ports. The Director General is responsible to a Board
of Directors representing nine agencies of Government, state and
municipality. In June 1985 SPTA contracted with the union-owned cooperative
w1tch had previously operated Tampico port to continue doing so with
exclusive rights also to the operation of the new deep-water facility in
Altamira.
2.15      Maintenance dredging of Mexico's ports and some irrigation canals
had, until recently, been the responsibility of the Directorate General for
Dredging (DRAGADO) within the SCT. DRAGADO also did some construction
dredging although the la-ter was and will continue to be done mainly by
private dredging contractors under contract to the Directorate General for
Maritime Works. A Presidential Decree was issued in November 1985,
establishing the Dredging Service (SEDRA), a "deconcentrated' federal
government agency but still under the SCT (Annex 2). As a "deconcentrated"
agency, instead of a regular government directorate, SEDRA is permitted a
higher degree of independence and flexibility in establishing its



- 8 -
organization (Chart 2) and procedures and also more discretionary use of its
annual budget.
2.16      The proliferation of agencies dealing with the ports has not
created complementary functions in all cases, but rather some functions for
which two or more agencies are nominally responsible and fighting for
domination. Investment in the port subsector has until recently been
dictated largely by political considerations with insufficient economic
justification. As a first step towards the reorganization of the port
subsector, the project will focus on the consolidation of the planning
function in the SCT and the strengthening of the CDPs as coordinating bodies
with decision-making power at local level. The details of the proposed
iAstitutional improvements in these areas are discussed below.
2.17      During negotiations it was confirmed that the duplication of effort
with regards to traffic forecasting and planning and the isolation of the
statistics function in DGPP (Annex 1) has been resolved by consolidating
these functions in one organizational unit, the Ports and Systems Directorate
of CNCP. As CNCP seems to have the relevant skills, is the officially
designated ports coordinating body responsible for port systems and port
administration, and also has the most direct access to port operations and
their costs, it was the obvious choice for locating a federal ports planning
bureau. Furthermore, CNCP is a staff unit and comes under neither of the
Sub-Secretaries, Operations or Infrastructure, but directly under the SCT
Secretary. This puts it in a good position to be above the
inter-departmental fray.
2.18      The evelving network of the regional Port Development Committees
(CDPs), will play a critical role in the investment planning process and the
decentralization of decision making and better coordination at the local
level. It is through these that the primary information on port capacity and
demand for port services will be fed to the central body. The CDPs should,
to this end, appoint specialized subcommittees of two or three members to
deal with finances, accounting, auditing, technical matters, and operations.
The exception is the relatively new decentralized organization at
Tampico-Altamira, which, theoretically at least, embodies all these
functions, but is having some difficulty getting started. Some of these
difficulties will be addressed through the proposed project (paras 3.10,
3.14).
(ii) Maritime Traffic
2.19        There are about 33 ports with commercial traffic in Mexico, but
most are of minor importance.  Excluding petroleum, largely centered on three
Gulf ports, and the salt and gypsum ports of Baja California, some five ports
handle the bulk of Mexican seaborne traffic: Veracruz and Tampico-Altamira
on the Gulf Coast, and on the Pacific Coast, Guaymas, Lazaro Cardenas and
Manzanillo. This concentration, and the preponderance of traffic through the
Gulf ports (Pacific ports account for under 30% of general cargo, and 35X of
grain traffic) is explicable in terms of a high concentration of population
and economic activity in the central Mexican region with good transport to
the Gulf Coast and the strong economic links with the United States.



- 9 -
Veracruz, which handles the largest volume of general cargo and agricultural
domestic traffic, only totalled 3.0 million tons of dry cargo in 1985 of
which 500,000 tons was bulk mineral, mainly cement clinker.
2.20        Part of the reason for the fairly small total volume, and the
consequent medium scale of port activity, is the importance of land movements
to and from the United States. Nearly 30% of imports went overland in 1985,
and the proportion of high value general cargo was probably nearer to 40%. A
similar pattern applies to non-petroleum exports.
2.21        Partly because of topography and mainly because of the
development of the railway and highway systems, most of the main ports have
moderately well defined hinterlands. Veracruz is the principal port for
Mexico City, with good rail connections. Tampico-Altamira has good
connections to Monterrey, and a circuitous connection to Mexico City.
Manzanillo is the principal port for the Guadalajara region. Guaymas serves
the North-Western region including the new industrial developments at
Hermosillo.
2.22        Port traffic statistics, excluding petroleum for all Mexican
ports and for the four project ports, Guaymas, Manzanillo, Veracruz and
Tampico-Altamira are given in Table 2.2. Total dry cargo at these ports was
about 10 million metric tons. The table shows that in 1985 the four project
ports accounted for 80% and 62% of general cargo imports and exports
respectively; together with Lazaro Cardenas the shares are 83% and 74%
respectively. For agricultural imports, the project ports account for 65% of
traffic, and for the small export traffic, 100%. Only for mineral traffic,
which is normally handled either over specialized berths or at least with
specialized equipment, are the project ports comparatively unimportant. This
also applies to coastal shipping. Detailed traffic statistics of the project
ports are given in Tables 1 through 4 of the Economic Evaluation (available
from the project file).
(iii) Infrastructure, Equipment and Operations
2.23      While no shortage of infrastructure capacity is anticipated in the
foreseeable future, the budget constraints of recent years have meant that,
as a short-term cost saving measure, very little maintenance has been done,
leaving the busiest ports with problems of deteriorating and dangerous
structures. In the port of Altamira, which was the object of very large
investments in recent years within the framework of the Industrial Port-s
Program, an excellent and capacious landside facility has ontLy one betth,
leaving the port poorly equipped to fulfill its future assigned function as a
deep-water container terminal and extension to the constrained old river port
of Tampico. The general level of productivity in the four project ports has
improved in recent years (Annex 3), bus a major problem impeding further
improvements, has been the lack of proper maintenance of operational
equipment. Much of it is old and inappropriate to modern handling
techniques. CNCP undertook a country-wide inventory of the state of port
equipment with a view to establishing a centrally controlled program for its
rehabilitation, where appropriate, scrapping of obsolete equipment and the
acquisition, where justified, of suitable specialized equipment. During
negotiations agreement was reached on the proposed program (Annex 4) eOvering
the period to December 31, 1992 to which the project will give suppoft,



- 10 -
through partial financing of the program applicable to the four subject ports
and technical assistance for improving maintenance procedures, and the
application of economic and operational analyses to future equipment
acquisition and rehabilitation programs. Furthermore, an important step to
improved productivity is the country-wide training program of port operating
staff undertaken by CNCP with UNDP assistance, partially financed through the
ongoing Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project (Loan 2450-ME).
2.24      The following is a brief description of each of the ports (details
in Annex 5) and SEDRA (Annex 2) and how the proposed project intends
addressing the principal problems:
(a)     Guaymas.  (See Map IBRD 20359). The port has 5 berths (some 878 m
with water depths ranging between 8 and 11 m), a grain silo with a
storage capacity of 64,000 tons and two storage sheds with a total
area of about 11,000 m2. The port is inadequately equipped for
container handling and some of its water and electrical supply
systems are in a bad state. Ship waiting time should be reduced by
the completion of infrastructure works. Given the forecast rapid
growth of container traffic for the new auto plant in Hermosillo,
the project will help redesign the port and equip it to handle such
traffic efficiently. It will also equip the port for more
efficient handling of imported grain and break-bulk general cargo.
Productivity targets for this traffic are included in the proposed
Action Plan (Annex 6).
(b)    Manzanillo. (See Map IBRD 20360).  The older part of this port is a
finger pier opening onto the city's central square. With eventual
improvements to the new port facilities on the San Pedrito lagoon,
the Government intends turning this old pier into a terminal for
tourist vessels. The San Pedrito facility now has three wharves
with a depth alongside of about 11 m.  As in Guaymas, the
conventional equipment is in a state of disrepair, and there is
insufficient specialized equipment for container and grain
handling. These deficiencies have led to costly and inefficient
operations. The project will address these shortcomings as well as
rehabilitate some essential utilities (water and electricity) which
are badly deteriorated. Productivity targets to be attained as
part of the ESPs Action Plan appear in Annex 6.
(c)     Tampico-Altamira.  (See Map IBRD 20361).  The common user terminal
(TUM) in the new facility at Altamira has one berth of 250 m with a
present depth alongside of 12 m but designed for 18 m, an ample
storage area and a freight-shed of 4,500 m2 for the handling of
future container traffic. SPTA has purchased a container crane
from PEMEX and some back-up equipment which have been refurbished
and put into operation. An additional berth and container crane
and auxiliary equipment to be financed under this project would
help transfer container traffic from the congested berths of the
old river port of Tampico nearby, with marked effects on port
productivity. Tampico itself is some 12 km up the Panuco River and
is a classical old port with the railway line and downtown
confining it within a narrow strip along the river bank. There are
9 berths for general cargo and 4 for bulk mineral handling. The



- 11 -
water-depth of 10-11 m alongside however, can only be maintained by
annual dredging of some 3-4 million m3, a serious cost item. The
project intends improving efficiency in the old port by creating
better roadway access to the port, better equipment availability,
rehabilitating some of the infrastructure and introducing a proper
maintenance program, as well as by relieving present congestion by
diverting container vessels to the Altamira terminal. Productivity
targets to be attained are set out in Annex 6. A study of the
costs and benefits of relocating some of the waterfront industries
with their own wharves to the new industrial port sites at Altamira
would also be financed by the project. Terms of Reference for the
study are in the Project File.
(d)     Veracruz.  (See Map IBRD 20362).  The country's oldest port, is
also the port with the best access to the central metropolitan
region. It has some 3.3 km of wharves with water depths ranging
from 9 to 11 m, additional shallow water wharves, and ample covered
and open storage area.  Its productivity is low, its equipment
badly neglected, including container-handling equipment, and much
of its infrastructure is in need of repair. Because, however, of
administrative deficiencies in the port's management, the project
proposes to limit investments under this project to those necessary
to improve container and grain handling (see relevant Action Plan,
Annex 6). Such assistance will be made conditional on
administrative reform (para 3.15). In addition to container (and
grain related investments), the project would help rehabilitate
cargo handling equipment and introduce, through technical
assistance, proper maintenance programs for such equipment (Annex
7).
(e)    Dredging (SEDRA).  The national dredging fleet is in a state of
disrepair - with a capacity of 13.5 million m3 in 1981 reduced to
an effective 8 million m3 in 1985. In an attempt to avoid further
deterioration of effective dredging capacity, the Government, in
November 1985, formed the Dredging Service (SEDRA), a
"deconcentrated" federal government agency, to be fully responsible
for all dredging operations in Mexico, through its own or
contracted operations. The Government has expressed the desire to
see the dredging fleet rehabilitated to an extent which will allow
it to do all maintenance dredging in the ports at an
internationally competitive price. The project is intended to help
achieve this. A detailed analysis of the situation and the
proposed remedies are included in Annex 2 and in the Action Plan in
the Project File.
(iv) Port Finances and Investment
2.25      Although most of Mexico's principal ports are operated by Port
Services Companies (ESPs), all port installations remain national property.
Except in the case of Tampico-Altamira (para 2.31), -ESPs do not pay any
concession fee for the use of such installations. Instead, port dues and
berthage fees are collected directly from vessel operators, and wharfage and
storage charges are collected from cargo owners or their agents, to cover the



- 12 -
capital for port infrastructure, as well as for the costs of their
maintenance and admiunistration. These dues are equal throughout Mexican
ports. Though such dues have been collected by most of the ESPs since 1985,
the monies thus collected are channeled directly to CNCP (as oi 1986) which
redistributes it to the ports throughout Mexico as required. These
redistributed funds (with SPP's approval) are meant to pay for the landside
maintenance of port installations Pad their administration for which the ESPs
have recently been made responsible. In effect, some of these funds were
used in 1986 to buy new equipment and help some ESPs with some much needed
rehabilitation works. Through such livestments, the Government's equity in
the relevant ESPe was increased. harine conservation of the ports (i.e.,
dredging and maritime civil works maintenance) is the responsibility of DGOM,
funded by the federal budget.
2.26      After the basic adjustment of port dues made at the end of 1985,
following a Bank-flianced study (under Loan 2450-ME), the Government
introduced an automatic monthly linkage of ship's dues (port and berthage) to
changes in the dollar exchange rate, thus keeping this part of revenues from
decreasing with the creeping devaluation of the peso. As DGPP
Superintendencies accounts are cash-based and do not include depreciation
allowances, only specific studies from time to time allow dues adjustments to
relate to full costs. During negotiations, agreement was zeached on annual
updating of the basic cost information and appropriate adjustment of dues, if
necessary.
2.27      In addition to port dues, charged basically for the use of the
infrastructure, clients also pay tariffs for the services rendered by the
ESPs, such as towage, stevedoring, cargo handling, etc. These tariffs vary
by port and are generally cost-related in that total revenue from tariffs
bave to cover the total costs of the ESPs. Tariffs have to be approved by
SCT's General Directorate of Tariffs and with the high inflation pushing
costs up steadily, ESPs are constantly demanding approval for further tariff
increases. Excessive delay in approving such increases has resulted in the
ESPs' revenues declining in real terms, and operational losses in recent
years. Furthermore, tariff adjustments to date have been across-the-board
ones, irrespective of specific costs for handling different types of cargo.
The object of tariff-increases, as mentioned above, is to assure that the
ESPs' overall revenues do not fall below their overall costs. However,
overall costs have not in the past included properly inflation-adjusted
depreciation but have usually been based on historic values. The project
will therefore also introduce mechanisms, as part of the Action Plans for the
ESPs, whereby operational assets will be properly valued and a reasonable
depreciation allowance will be included in the ESPs costs as of 1988.
2.28      The existing, highly complex system of port tariffs is currently
being replaced by a simplified uniform tariff structure, being implemeated on
a port by port basis by a Joint Commission of the Directorate of Tariffs and
CNCP. No systematic analysis has been made to determine whether the level of
existing tariffs is adequate. Part of the project therefore will be to
ensure a detailed analysis of operational costs in each of the relevant
ports, and appropriate adjustments where required and authorized by the
Government.



- 13 -
2.29      The project requires cost analyses to be made in each of the
project ports and consequent progressive adjustment on tariffs or cutting of
costs so as to attain target financial ratios of the Action Plans (Annex 6).
2.30      It was agreed at negotiations that consolidated port financial
reports will be kept by CNCP aided by the relevant CDPs and port operating
companies which will indicate the port position overall - including all port
charges, both dues and tariffs on the revenue side, and on the expenditure
side, the matching costs of all the relevant agencies, e.g., DGPPs
Superintendencies, ESPs, etc. A phased plan for such consolidation of
financial data for each project port as of 1989 was agreed upon at
negotiations.
2.31      In the case of SPTA, which is already legally constituted as a
two-port Authority, the present situation is that the operating contractor
(GUA) bills port users throu4h the SPTA and pays agreed percentages to SPTA
as a concession fee.
2.32      After the substantial investments in the industrial ports program
and the Investments during the early years of this administration, there
appears to be no substantial shortage of potential capacity in the principal
ports, with the exception of some specialized installations for container and
grain handling. This is the main reason that investment levels in 1986 have
fallen by about 73X in real terms from 1981 levels, (from the equivalent of
US$296 m to US$80 million per year) covering equipment, infrastructure
construction and maintenance, dredging and ferry boats.
2,33      The initial results of preparatory study confirm that only minimal
levels of investment in infrastructure are required in the principal ports
during the next 4 years to meet the forecasted traffic demand. The proposed
investments for Guaymas, Manzanillo, Veracruz and Tampico-Altamira and SEDRA
total about US$90 million equivalent over the project period, including
taxes.
2.34      During negotiations, Government assurances were received, whereby
by November 30 of each year, it would review the annual port investment
program with the Bank, and specifically before budget finalization, it would
seek agreement with the 3ank on any new investment in the project ports. The
investment criteria to be used in the preparation of the investment plan were
also agreed upon during negotiations.
III. THU PROJBCT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
3.01      The project was originally identified in August 1984 as one of a
number of potential projects in the port subsector. The Government at that
time signalled interest in Bank involvement in a project focusing on the
Tampico-Altamira port complex, and project preparation was carried out
accordingly. In July 1985, the Bank was informed that the Tampico-Altamira
project should be indefinitely postponed, and discussions again opened on the



- 14 -
prospects for a broader project, oriented toward rehabilitation and
modernization of the commercial port system, which would also address pricing
and institutional reform issues.
3.02      In 1986, the Government requested that the proposed project be a
sector loan operation modeled on the ongoing highway and railway sector
operations in Mexico. While the level of policy reform to be associated with
the project would lend itself to a sector operation, it was recognized that
this would be the first Bank project to deal with the port sector on a broad
basis, and it appeared that further strengthening of the planning functions
of the agencies involved would be required. It was therefore proposed that a
two-phase approach be taken. The proposed project, scheduled for FY88, would
cover a limited time period (1988-94) and four main ports, i.e., Guaymas,
Manzanillo, Tampico-Altamira and Veracruz, and the National Dredging Service
(SEDRA) yet would start to address sector policy issues. The preparatory
work on the proposed project, to be done together with DGP (the central
planning body of SCT, which has not previously dealt wit'.h the ports
subsector) will lay a solid foundation for a follow-up project of a broad
sectoral nature. Such a proposed sector project, in FY91 or later, would
then be based on the strengthened planning mechanisms and the experience with
the institutional and pricing issues of this proposed project.
3.03      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a)  improve port efficiency through the rehabilitation and moderni-
zation of port operations, infrastructure and equipment;
(b)  improve port equipment management, including equipment procurement,
finance and maintenance;
(c)  assist in the acquisition of dredging equipment, maintenance and
operational training and help with the administrative
reorganization of the dredging functions; and
(d) strengthen port investment planning and financial management.
B.  Rationale for Bank Involveuvnt
3.04      Port efficiency is an important element in Mexico's economic
recovery and in the Government and Bank efforts to stimulate trade,
restructure the industrial sector and better utilize limited public sector
resources. The last two port projects, though limited in scope, have helped
to establish a basis for rationalizing the system of port administration and
the pricing of port services. Continued Bank involvement would help improve
investment planning, operational efficiency and cost recovery policies.
C. Project Description
3.05      The project will comprise primarily rehabilitation of port
infrastructure and equipment, procurement of replacement equipment,
replenishment of spare parts stocks, appropriate technical assistance and



- 15 -
training. In addition there will be procurement of new container and bulk
grain handling equipment for Guaymas, Manzanillo and Veracrus, and container
equipment for Altamira and Veracruz as well as new measuring and survey
equipment and auxiliary craft and barges for SEDRA. A summary of the project
by ports, SEDRA and other components follows. A detailed description of the
project is included as Annex 9.
(a)      Guaymas.  The construction will consist of a new control building
anidlihtiug for the container terminal, levelling, paving and
striping for the container storage area, repairs to the railway
tracks within the port, rehabilitation of the potable water,
fire-fighting and electrical systems, and relocatiow of the transit
shed now adjacent to Berth 2. Equipment would be procured or
rehabilitated for the handling of container and break-bulk general
cargo and grain.
(b)      Mauzanillo. The infrastructure work consists merely in the
rehabilitation of the drinking water, fire-fighting and electrical
systems and striping of the container yard and port area. Equipment
would be procured or rehabilitated for the handling and storage of
container and break-bulk general cargo and grain.
(c)      Tampico-Altamira.  The construction at the port of Tampico will
consist of marine protection works at the mouth of the Rio Panuco
and south of the harbor, mooring and fendering systems, sheds,
paving and storm drainage on the wharves, improvements to the road
access to the Port of Tampico, rehabilitation and replacement of
cargo handling equipment and procurement of one tugboat. The
infrastructure work at the Port of Altamira will include improvement
to the access road, completion of the railway access, construction
of a 250 m extension to the container wharf including necessary
dredging and construction of adjacent container yard and new
equipment maintenance shop, control building and a new apron on the
existing consolidation shed. Equipment would be procured or
rehabilitated for the handling of container and break-bulk general
cargo, and navigation aids would be procured.
(d)      Veracruz.  The infrastructure improvement will consist of the
lowering of the pipelines from the PEKEX terminal adjacent to the
entrance of the existing container terminal ard construction of a
bridge at this point to provide easier access to the large container
yard at the west side of the port. Equipment would be procured or
rehabilitated for the handling of container and break-bulk general
cargo and grain.



- 16 -
(e)      This sub-project will include rehabilitation and modernization of
the basic fleet of trailing suction hopper dredges and cutter
suction pipeline dredges, acquisition of auxiliary vessela,
measuring equipment and spare parts. Also included will be the
execution of studies on national dredging needs and on means of
strengthening SEDRA's management and planning capability.
(f)      The technical assistance to be financed under the proposed project
would comprise (details in Annex 7): (i) supplementary studies to
assist SEDRA to carry out the action plan; (ii) a cost-benefit study
of relocating bulk traffic facilities from Rio Panuco to Altamira;
(iii) a study of the environmental impact of the project; (iv)
assistance in the preparation and implementation of equipment
maintenance programs; (v) cost/tariff studies; (vi) assistance in
developing port management accounting systems, and (vii)
construction supervision for the major civil works. The training
program developed and begun with UNDP participation under the last
two projects will be implemented with funds from Loan 2450-ME.
Environmental issues for the project ports will be covered with
UNDP's assistance to the the Mexican Ministry of Environmental
Affairs (SEDUE), and funded from Loan 2450-ME.
D.  Project Cost and Financing
3.06     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$90.2 million,
(*including taxes of about US$22 million), of which US$50 million is foreign
exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would finance the foreign
exchange part which represents about 55X of total project costs. The
relatively high proportion of foreign exchange is due to the equipment
acquisition and rehabilitation (spare parts) components which make up the
larger part of this project, These estimates include pbysical contingencies
varying from 5X to 1OX and price escalation in both foreign and local costs
components (denominated in US$).



- 17 -
Details of project costs are presented in Tables 3.1-3.8. A summary cost
table is presented below:
Project Cost Summary
(US$ '000)
% Total
Local1/  Foreign2/ Total    Base Costs
A. Port Rehabilitation & Equipment
1.  Guaymas                         3.1        3.8       6.9        9
2. Manzanillo                       1.8        2.8       4.6        6
3.  Tampico-Altamira               17.5        16.4     33.9       47
4.  Veracruz                        4.8         7.5     12.3       17
Sub-total                             27.2        30.5     57.7       79
B. Dredge Rehabilitation               5.4         7.8     13.2        18
C. Techbical Assistance                0.5         1.7      2.2        3
Total Baseline Costs                  33.1        40.0     73.1       100
Physical Contingencies                 2.9         3.3      6.2        8
Price Contingencies                    4.2         6.7     10.9        15
Total Project Costs                   40.2        50.0     90.2       123
1/ Includes US$22.3 million equivalent in duties and local taxes.
T/  Does not include foreign cost of interest during construction.
April 1988
3.07      Cost estimates made during appraisal in 1986 were revised in April
1988 and are based upon: (a) final design cost estimates for extension of
the container wharf, associated dredging and container yard and rail access
at Altamira; (b) final design of the connection of the Metals and Minerals
wharves at Tampico; (c) current unit prices in Mexico for similar
construction and rehabilitation of structures, paving and utilities systems;
(d) current prices for rehabilitation of light and heavy motorized equipment
by privately owned repair shops; (e) recent market prices for the new cargo
handling equipment; (f) estimates by Astilleros Unidos de Veracruz for
rehabilitation of the dredges; (g) recent market prices for the measuring and
survey equipment, and spare parts for the dredges; and (h) manpower estimates
and prevailing consultant's fees for studies and supervision of construction.



- 18 -
3.08      The project and related capital and other costs will be finnced
through three principal sources as follows (details in Table 3.9):
Sum_ary of Project Financing Plan
Funds Required                     Local       Foreign       Total         I
Project Investments                40.2         50.0           90.2       80
Debt Service During Project a/       -          22.5          22.5        20
Total Required:                    02O         72R.5        112.7       100
Funds Available
Internally Generated
by the Ports:                     20.6                       20.6        18
IBIRD Loan:                          '         50.0           50.0        44
Government:                        19.6         22.5          42.1        38
Total Available                    40.2         72.5         112.7       _00
ai Includes estimated interest and commitment fees, during project
Implementation period.
Government assurance was received at negotiations that the funds required for
project implementation,would be made available and had already been budgeted
to the end of 1988.
E. Financial Prospects of Project Ports
3.09      All the project ESPs are in a precarious financial position and the
reason lies not only in inflationary developments, but also in the fact that
none of the port operating companies began with a solid capital base. Thus
the need to acquire large items such as specialized machinery or a tug has
put severe strains on essentially revenue-based operations. Currently CNCP
is helping in the acquisition of new machinery, partially with revenues which
it receives from port dues and which it is putting into select ESPs as
additional Government equity; also it is proposed to have CNCP take over the
ownershlp of very costly pieces of equipment from the ESPs and then charge a
lease for use of such equipment.  Further Government participation in equity
financing as counterpart funding of this project and assumption of part of
the debt, will help strengthen the relevant ESPe.
3.10      SPTA is temporarily in a soomewhat different position from the
ESPs.  It acts malily as an administrative agency, collecting concession fees
from the operator, GUA and port dues from users. It also receives
additional capital support from the Government. However, the accumulation
of, and appropriate adjustment, of port dues, should reduce Government
participation considerably by the end of this project. Agreement was reached
at negotiatioss that the Government would provide, by June 30, 1989, a
program of measures to strengthen and improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of SPTA'S control of operations, at the two ports of Tampico and
Altamira.



- 19 -
3.11      The financial objectives proposed for the ports will be expressed
in target working and operating ratios, which express the need to generate
sufficient funds to cover all working costs and interest payments and
eventually make some contribution to future investment. These results would
be based on a consolidated accounting of all port revenues both from dues and
tariffs on the one hand and of all costs, operating and infrastructure, on
the other. The introduction of a system of consolidated financial reports
for each of the project ports, as of Juue 30, 1989, was agreed during
negotiations. For this purpose a review of a proposal with the Bank should
be done before November 30, 1988. Agreement was reached on the following
maximum working (WR) and operating ratios (OR)1/, which will be incorporated
into the Action Plans for the relevant ports:-
1987       1988       1989         1990       1991
WR     OR WR      OR   WR    OR    WR    OR   WR    OR
Guaymas          0.67  1.04  0.55  0.91  0.54  0.89  0.56  0.93  0.57  0.94
Manzanillo       0.67  1.18  0.61  1.05  0.60  1.06  0.58  1.01  0.57  0.97
Tamptco-Altamira 0.61  0.93  0.77  1.06  0.81  1.14  0.82  1.17  0.85  1.18a/
Veracruz         0.72  1.13  0.66  1.22  0.56  1.00  0.57  1.02  0.59  1.04
a/ The worsening operating ratio in Tampico-Altamira expresses partial
absorption of dredging costs.
3.12      The financial forecasts (available from the project file) for the
four ports, based on the lower traffic scenario, indicate that in order to
attain even the very modest financial targets incorporated into the ports'
action plans (Annex 6), some relatively drastic increases in the real level
of dues and tariffs will be necessary. Even if increased efficiency
resulting from project investments is taken into account, some such specific
adjustments will be necessary. On the basis of existing information, it
appears that revenues from port dues will have to be raised in real terms by
over 50X by December 31, 1989.
3.13      It was also agreed at negotiations that satisfactory costing
systems be established and maintained at each of the project ports, that
annual review of the systems and the targets and indicators included in the
Action Plans would be undertaken with the Bank by November 30 of each year,
and that on the basis of such reviews, modification of the Action Plans and
the measures needed to achieve targets would be agreed with the Bank.
3.14      In the case of SPTA, it was agreed at negotiations that the
Government would present a specific action plan to improve SPTA's operations,
including exercising greater control over the operating contractor, by June
30, 1989, in keeping with the existing operating contract.
1/ The working ratio is defined as the ratio of working costs without
depreciation to operating revenues. The operating ratio is defined as
that between working costs plus depreciation to operating revenues.



- 20 -
3.15      In Veracruz, DGODP's Superintendency is having problems controlling
port operations because of the complex union situation i.e., two port
workers' unions inside the ESP with 75X of the total shares, the limited
share of the Government in SERPOVER's capital, and an independent stevedoring
union. Agreement was reached at negotiations that disbursement of loan funds
for Veracruz port would be made dependent on the signing of a
program-contract between SERPOVER and SCT satisfactory to the Bank. Such a
contract needs to include financial, administrative and operational targets
and responsibilities and a mechanism for their monitoring and subsequent
adjustment.
F. Economic Justification
3.16      The traffic forecasts for the four ports are based upon the general
premise that the Mexican GDP will grow at about 2 to 4% p.a. on average over
the next decade and that with increasing trade liberalization, international
trade through the ports system will grow by 3 to 51 p.a. on average. Within
that general framework local conditions in the four port regions have been
reviewed to determine the port and conmmdity group specific (general cargo,
agricultural and mineral) traffic forecasts. The existing operating
conditions have been reviewed, the effects of work underway assessed, and the
probable future operating conditions with and without the project
determined. Avoidance of the deteriorations which would occur in operating
conditions without the project forms the basis for the benefit assessment;
quantification of these benefits has been based, inter-alia, upon queuing
theory and the Bank's "Shipcost' model. Full details of the economic
analysis are available from the Project File; and the economic rates of
return for the civil works and specialized equipment in each of the project
ports, SEDRA and the equipment rehabil'tation component are given below:
Economic Rates of Return
I of Total            Economic Rate
Project Items                      Project Cost          of Return (1
Civil Works and
Specialized Equipment
Guaymas                                8                       25
Manzanillo                             5                       15
Veracruz                              18                      42
Tampico/Altamira                      46                       17
SEDRA (Dredging)                       17                      20
Equipment Rehabilitation                3                       14
Technical Assistance                    3                       -
Total Project                      100                      22
G. Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
3.17     The sensitivity of the ERR to variations in costs and benefits has
been investigated. The minimum ERR on the total project is about 161 with
increases of 201 in cost and reductions in benefits of up to 20%. The major
risks are slower-than-anticipated institutional progress and less rapid
traffic growth. With regard to the former, the project design is such that
productivity and effective capacity improvement will take place in the



- 21 -
project ports and SEDRA even in the absence of major Institutional change.
The economic analysis has been based on very conservative productivity
improvements. The second risk has been minimized by assuming a rate of
growth of only 3% p.a. in dry-cargo traffic which is substantially lower than
the rate of growth of 5% p.a. in the late 70's and early 80's, and results in
a traffic forecast for 1995 which is 8% lower than the actual traffic handled
in 1931. Another potential risk in the lack of sufficient budgeted funds
which may result in slower project implementation.  However, thVi risk is
small since the items included in the project constitute the essential core
of the sector investment program which will be kept under close review in the
context of our overall relationsbip with Mexico.
H. Project Execution
3.18      SCT through DGOM, CNCP, the various ESPa, and SEDRA, would be
responsible for the implementation of the project.  Though FIDENAP has
officially been dissolved as a separate trust fund, its functions are being
continued by a special equipment unit set up within CNCP, still referred to
as "FID&AP".  A project coordinator with necessary support staff, has been
appointed in the Ports and Systems Directorate of CNCP to be responsible for
Implementation and monitoring progress, including the preparation of
quarterly reports for IBRD. Such a coordinator will also be responsible for
obtaining the necessary budgetary appropriations from SPP to assure
continuity of the works. A detailed program for project execution has been
prepared (Annex 10). During negotiations, agreement was reached with SCT and
the various agencies on that program and on the project implementation
schedule attached thereto.
3.19      The project would be supervised and monitored by the Bank through
the normal supervision mechanism, and through provision by SCT of regular
reports to the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, on all phases of
the project. These reports would be produced by the project coordinator
using data and contributions from each of the agencies carrying out the
project. In addition, the Bank and SCT would meet during March of each year,
to assess the status of the project using the agreed targets and monitoring
indicators established under the project and to discuss and resolve
outstanding issues and implementation problems. SCT will, in addition,
provide, within six months of the Closing Date of the Loan, a Project
Completion Report. During negotiations, it was agreed that SCT will provide
adequate and timely data and information to the Bank for project monitoring
purposes. Annex 11 provides details concerning project execution and
monitoring.
I.  Performance Indicators, Targets and Monitoring
3.20      In order to maintain close control of project execution activities,
set goals to attain, and correct deficiencies or solve problems before
difficulties become unmanageable, SCT will continuously monitor appropriate
performance indicators including physical operational and financial targets
set out in the Action Plans. (Action Plans targets for each of the relevant
entities are presented in Annex 6). The operational targets relate to the
quality and efficiency of the maintenance operations of the various ESPa and
of SEDRA, and will include: (a) average number of hours that the equipment



- 22 -
is utilized; (b) percent of fleet available for use; (c) percent of fleet
actually utilized; d) equipment (including dredge) downtime; and (e) number
of cubic meters of in situ material or tons of dredged material removed per
day per dredge. SCT will provide infcrmation concerning these performance
indicators to the Bank by February 28 of each year prior to the joint review
of project progress that will take place each March. During negotiations,
agreement was reached regarding this process, along with confirmation of the
specific physical and operational targets to be achieved in the Action Plans.
J. Procurement
3.21      Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table. Agreement was obtained from the Government during
negotiations that the procurement processes used will be satisfactory to the
Bank.
Procurement Method (USM Million)
Responsible
Project Element             Agency       ICB        LCB     Other    Total
Civil Works
Construction              DGOM         10.1      13.8      -        23.9
(4.4)   ( 6.1)             (10.5)
Rehabilitation            DGOM          -         3.9      -         3.9
<1.5)              (1.5)
Equipment
Purchase of New Equipment
and Spare Parts          2/          39.0        -       -        39.0
(23.4)                      (23.4)
Rehabilitation of          2/           -         3.0      -         3.0
Existing Equipment                             (1.8)              (1.8)
Dredges
Spare Parts, Auxiliary
Craft and Measuring
Instruments             3/            8.9      -         -         8.9
(5.4)     -        -        (5.4)
Rehabilitation            3/            8.8       -        -         8.8
(5.3)                       (5.3)
Project Supervision
and Studies                4/            -        -         2.7       2.7
(2.1)     (2.1)
Totals                          66.8     20.7       2.7      90.2
(38.5)    (9.4)    (2.1)    (50.0)
1/ Amounts in parentheses show the allocations from the proceeds of the Loan.
2/ The local procurement committee assisted by "FIDEMAP" except for major
pieces of equipment which would be "FIDEMAP".
3/ SEDRA assisted by "FIDEMAP".
4/ DGOM for civil works including the National Dredging Study, SEDRA for the
dredge rehabilitation and "FIDEMAP" for assistance in the procurement of
equipment and spare parts.
3.22      Civil Works: The major items of work/procurement under the project
and the procedures for bidding are shown in the table above. The domestic
construction industry is quite active and there are many competent and
experienced construction firms located throughout the country which would be



- 23 -
prepared to bid on both large and small construction contracts. Contracts
for civil works with an estimated cost of US$1 million or more will be
contracted on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) utilizing
procedures and bidding documents comparable to those approved by the Bank for
Loan 2281-ME, suitably modified for the components in this project. The
civil w.orks rehabilitation is scattered in four ports and is likely to be too
small to be bid as ICB, therefore it will be let on the basis of Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB); however, any foreign contractor who wishes to do
so may participate on an equal basis with the domestic contractors.
3.23      LCB Procedures:   Local competitive bidding procedures have been
reviewed and, except where indicated below, have been found to be
satisfactory. Procurement pract4ces, relating to contracting of civil works
under LCB, which need to be modi id in order to conform to Bank policies
are: the registration process (prequalification); the time periods allowed
during the procurement process for the various steps and functions to be
carried out; the evaluation and award process and the budgetary process.
3.24      New Equipment:  Under the project, cargo handling equipment, aids
to navigation and spare parts valued at approximately US$39 million will be
purchased. Of this amount, about US$23 million equivalent will be financed
by the Bank. All equipment to be purchased with financing under the project
will be procured in accordance with ICB based upon the Bank's Guidelines,
utilizing bidding documents and procedures comparable to those approved by
the Bank for Loan 2281-ME, suitably modified for the components in this
project. The preference for domestic manufacturers will be 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of the foreign goods or the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay, whichever
is lower.
3.25      Equipment Rehabilitation: Under the project, about US$3.0 million
equivalent will be spent to rehabilitate port equipment. This work will be
done by domestic industry or local commercial machine shops on a contract
basis using LCB. It is very unlikely that foreign firms would be interested
in this work due to its small size, except in special cases where particular
expertise or special machinery is needed to carry out the required work, but
is not available in the country.
3.26      Dredge Rehabilitation:  The existing trailing suction hopper
dredges and cutter suction pipeline dredges are in need of rehabilitation.
In addition, it is intended to procure and fit the dredges with modern
measuring and recording equipment to attempt to improve the productivity of
the dredges and make it much easier to monitor their performance. The
rehabilitation work on the dredges will be procured through ICB. The
detailed evaluation procedure will be outlined in the bidding documents.
3.27      Dredge Measuring Systems:  The measuring and recording system for
use in controlling and monitoring the dredging operation will be procured
through ICB and will be provided to the shipyard for installation during
dredge rehabilitation work. The purchase price of the system will include
the cost of a factory representative to inspect and certify the installation,
train operators in the use of the systems and also technicians in the
servicing of the systems.
3.28      Dredge Auxiliary Plant:  Barges, tugboats, auxiliary craft and
spare parts will be procured through ICB.



- 24 -
3.29      Consulting Services:   Consulting services for technical
assistance, for studies and for design of improvements and supervision of
construction amounting to approximately US$2.7 million equivalent will be
obtained in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants. The local domestic consulting industry is very active,
qualified and experienced and will be able to satisfactorily carry out the
work required with the possible exception of certain specific expertise that
may not be readily available within the country. While the consultant
selection process will be open to foreign firms, it is likely that foreign
experts, when needed, will be engaged as individuals or through joint
ventures with local firms.   During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government on outline terms of reference (Annex 7) for these consulting
assignments and on the procedures to be followed in making selections,
appointments and awards, i.e., Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
3.30      Prior Review.  All contracts for civil works costing the equivalent
of US$500,000 or more and all contracts for goods costing the equivalent of
US$250,000 or more wlll be subject to the Bank's prior review of bidding
documents and price quotations. The consultants' terms of reference, their
suitability for the specific assignment and the draft contract for all
assignments will be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. These
criteria will enable the Bank to make an ex-ante review of some 60% of total
contract amounts to be financed by the Bank.
K. Disbursements, Accounts and Audits
3.31      Disbursements from the Loan Account will be made on the basis of
42% of total expenditures for civil works; 100% of foreign currency
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment
rehabilitation or repair work performed locally through contract and 65% of
local expenditures for purchases of new equipment or for spare and
replacement parts for existing equipment; and 100% of costs for consulting
services. Agreement was reached during negotiations that retroactive
financing wil be provided for project related expenditures incurred after
December 1, 1986 but before the date of loan signature, up to a maximum of
10% of the Loan Amount, for civil works and associated consultant servicea;
and for expenditures connected with the equipment rehabilitation and repair
program.
3.32      No disbursement of funds will take place for the port of Veracruz
subproject until a program contract has been signed between SERPOVER and SCT
which incorporates the relevant elements of the Action Plan outline
(Annex 6), and agreement is reached with the Government concerning the future
administration of the port (para 3.15). Disbursements on the other ports are
subject to the condition that each port operating company enter into an
appropriate Subsidiary Loan Agreement with BANOBRAS and agree to carry out
its action plan.
3.33      BANOBRAS will be the borrower at the Bank's carrent terms of 15
year repayment, including 3 years of grace. On-lending terms would be the
same, plus a small fee to BANOBRAS fcr its intermediation role.
3.34      In order to reduce the time interval during which the Government
would be financing the Bank's share of' project costs with its own funds, a
Special Account would be set up in the Banco de Mexico under the control of



- 25 -
BANOBRAS, which could be drawn against on the basis of project expenditures
for previously approved subprojects and/or contracts and which would be
replenished from time to time by the Bank at the request of the Borrower as
needed for project purposes. These replenishments would be made on the basis
of documentation justifying the withdrawals previously made but would not
exceed US$6 million at any given time. Disbursements and withdrawals from
the Special Account will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
for civil works, for costs incurred relating to the equipment rehabilitation
program, and for costs of services. Disbursements relating to the new
equipment purchase program and for consulting services will be based on the
Bank's usual documentation requirements. BANOBRAS has adequate accounting
and auditing procedures and control to permit disbursements to be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditure. Supporting documentation would be
retained by executing agencies, would be subject to auditing under agreed
procedures and would be available for inspection by Bank staff during project
supervision missions.
3.35      Standard disbursement profiles prepared by the Bank for the LAC
Region, and in particular for Mexico, Indicate that a seven-year period is
required to obtain full disbursement for this type of project and the
implementation period has accordingly been estimated to be seven years
(Table 4.1).
3.36      Agreement was reached during negotiations that annual audits of the
special account and the SCT project accounts would be carried out in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the Memorandum of Understan lng
(Aide Memoire) of November 25, 1986, between Bank representatives and those
of the Mexican Government. Annual audit reports, from each of the ESPs and
from SEDRA, by auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and in a format
satisfactory to the Bank, would also be furnished to the Bank within six
months of the close of the fiscal year.
L. Environmental Aspects
3.37      The project is not expected to have serious environmental effects.
However it does include dredging at the port of Altamira, and the
environmental Impact of this and other project related a sivities will be
studied with financing under the proposed project, and appropriate actions
taken.
IV.  *SREAIS RECUK  AND RKCCZXATIONS
4.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
BANOBRAS on the following:
a)   The planning for formulating and coordinating overall strategy
in the federal port system will continue to be consolidated
in the Ports and Systems Directorate of CNCP under the general
guidance of DGP (para 2.17);
b)   Scope and timing of consulting services for improving
equipment maintenance, scrapping and acquisition programs for
each of the project ports over the period to December 31, 1992
(para 2.23);
c)   Cost studies to be done by November 30, annually, for project
ports to indicate appropriate levels of dues and tariffs
(paras 2.29, 2.30 and 3.13);



- 26 -
d)   Cost and tariff adjustments as needed to attain Action Plan
financial targets (paras 2.29, 2.30 and 3.12);
e)   Setting up by June 30, 1989 consolidated port financial
reports in CNDP with help from each of the CDPs on the basis
of a program to be reviewed with the Bank by November 30, 1988
(paras 2.30 and 3.11);
f)   A Special Action Plan for SPTA to strengthen operations,
including control over operational contractors would be
provided to the Bank by the Government by June 30, 1989 (paras
2.31 and 3.10);
g)   Annual joint review with the Bank by November 30 of proposed
port investment program and use of agreed evaluation
methodology for port investments, as well as Bank agreement
for additional investments in project ports (para 2.34);
h) Government's investments in project ports in accordance with
agreed financing plan (para 3.08);
i)   Action Plans for ports and SEDRA agreed and monitored by SCT
(para 3.20).
4.02      Agreement was also reached on:
a)   Project implementation schedule and Execution Program (para
3.18);
b)   Project reporting requirements (para 3.19);
c)   Procurement procedures and documentation to be applied for
civil works, goods and services (para 3.21);
d) Amount of retroactive financing as US$5 million maximum (para
3.31);
e)   Audit procedures and reporting (para 3.36).
4.03      A Condition of Effectiveness would be the signing of at least two
of the subsidiary loan agreements between BANOBRAS and the ports.
4.04      Conditions of disbursement would be as follows:
a)   For Veracruz: The signing of a program-contract satisfactory
to the Bank between SERPOVBR and SCT (paras 3.15 and 3.32);
b)   The signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with each of SEPOG,
SEPOM, and SPTA would be a special condition of disbursement
for the respective components being implemented by each of
them, as well as agreement by each of them on their respictive
action plan (para. 3.32).
4.05           In view of the above agreements and subject to th.e above
conditions, the proposed project is recommended for a Bank loan of US$ 50.0
million.



- 27 -
Table 2.1
PORTS RERHABILITATION PROJECT
Prior Transport Lending
8a                                          M Amount   DVto      Scatus
Lesa  No    Prolsct Name                 (U omlllioo ) TFTY)       MY
103-4z      Firot Railvay Project to
Ferrocarril del Pacifice      61.0      1954      Completed 1959
268-4       First Hlghvay Project             25.0      1961      Completed 1968
517-H       nirst Toll load Project           30.5      1962      Completed 1967
354-4Z      Second tighvay Project            40.0      1964      Complet*d 1972
401-M       Second Toll Road Project          32.0      1965      Complted 1970
52S-4X      Thrd Nlghvay Project              27.5      196J      Completed 1973
695-4       Fourth tlghvay Project            21.8      1970      Completed 1977
620-4i nrst Port Project                      20.0      1972      Completed 1977
625-4       Second RalvYy Project (V de l) 75.0         1972      Completed 1977
968-I       Seventh tighvay Project           90.0      1974      Completed 1982
1022-M      Airport Developmeat Project    25.0         1974      Completed 1982
1232-4Z    Tird RaAlvay Project (8 de 1) 100.0          1976      Completed 1983
1671-1      Ftrst Nighvay Sector Project   120.0        1979      Completed 1984
1929-1      Fourth Railvay Project (N de  )1l50.0       1981      Completed 1986
1964-1      Port Development Prep.Project    4*51/    1981        Completed 1986
2428-4E    Second Righvay Setor Project  200.0          1964      Est.Comp. 1988
2450-E      Lataro Cardenas tnd.Port Pr.    76.3        1984      Ito.Coap. 1990
2525-4      O Chapas Rural Roads Project      22.0      1965     Kt.Comp. 1991
2575-4E    Railvay Sector Project            300.0      1965     Est.Comp. 1992
2875-ME     Highway Maintenance Pro5ect    135.0        1988     Est.ComP. 1991
1/ After cuacallations.
Source: teak staff
November 1987



28 -
Table 2. 2
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Dry Cargo Traffic at Principal and Project Ports
(Thousands of Metric Ton~s)
1980               1982                 1985
A         B        A           B        A        B
IMPORTS
General Cargo      3,589      2,575     2,582      1,697    2,026   1,617
Agricultural Bulk  5,808      4,013     3,227      2,118    4,243   2,715
Mineral Bulk        3,233     1,041      2,855       775    2,630      669
Other             444          -         1          -       16       -
Total Imports     13,074      7,629     8,665      4,590    8,915   5,061
EXPORTS
General Cargo       1,134       838     1,232        782    1,424     882
Agricultural Bulk      -          -         14        14      101      101
Mineral Bulk        8,480     1,251      6,965     1,238    9,444   2,835
Other              23          -        14          -       15       -
Total Exports      9,637      2,089     8,225      2,034   10,984   3t818
Total Inter-
national         22,711      9,718    16,890      6,624   19,899   8,879
CABOTAGE (in plus out)
General Cargo      1,854        221     2,123        312    3,017      253
Agricultural Bulk    232         62       627        168      752      271
Mineral Bulk        7,768       927     6,988      1,110    8,072      833
Other           221          -       281         -       288       -
Total Cabotage    10,075      1,210    18,557      1,590   12,129   1,357
TOTAL PORT TRAFFIC  32,786    10,928    26,909       8,214   32,028  10,236
Source: SCT
November 1986
A - Principal Ports (18)
B - Project Ports   (4)



- 29 -                                                    TABLE 3.1
Page I
PMTS REWILITATION   CT
Table 1. Suavs /a
Detailed Cu,t Table
De Costs                                   Totals Includinr  ContiUncies
fUS  'OO0)                                           113$'000)
88/89  89/9   0191 n/92 92m  93/4 9/95 Total   889  8"99                90 1M       92m  94 94m  Totl
i.uw n u a
At C4Ata    btUh
--ontrol Sdg. I Lighting                      104     04N                                  209     123    125     -        -     -     -     -    247
Ttasaine  (1)                               366      -     -       -     -     -      -    366   422      -       -     -      -     -     -    422
hais u(4)                                     8     50     -       -     -      -     -    148   113     5S                              -    172
Fork Tics                                   230  -  -                                    230  265 -                                           265
M-Totl COntat Btrth                            m      154     -        -     -     -     -    954   923    183      -     -     -     -     -  1106
bain to bilus Ttacs                         423  495   -            -918  4m   52   -   -                                          -   -  1
cat.w 1 NW                                   40      -       -     -                      40      47      -       -      -     -     -     -   47
but Mateo Rehabilitation                     74  74  88 -                                                        -          ---
Elctrical onto RailitatIon                                                                 1  2 ---2
Eulpsont Rhbilitton                         108      -       -     -     -      -     -    108   124      -       -      -     -     -     -    124
Eauimnt Raplocesent                      I1t51    382   382   3      382 38 2   382  3446   14327    447   461   475   491   511   531  4P241
Tol South I East fru                         1,9       77   382   382   382   382   382  458   2,087  1,040   461   475   491   511   531  5'515
Ct Storftm Ae
l lld                                        43      -       -     -     -     -     -    43      50      -       -      -     -     -     -   SO
Pavin                                       517      -       -                            1 -   -   -    517  608  -   -   -   -     -     -   608
Stcipirn                                      I      -                                     1       2      -       -     -      -     -     -    2
Aeceusoris                                  13      -                                    13      1s      -       -     -      -     -     -   15
TrakobUle (14300 T Traction)               132       -       -     -     -     -     -    132    152                         -       -     -    152
Fin Pus (2)                                  27      -       -     -     -           -    27      32      -       -     -      -               32
SI-Total Storai Am                              3       -       -     -     -     -     -    7      II9      -     -      -       -     -     -    059
3o Brain andaing
Brain Cnmvos (1,000 TIl)                      - 27- - -  -                          - 2            - - 301-303
Stain S        Duon D n (8810 TIl)    -  378-    -  -                               -  378    -  443  -   -                                   443
SI-ToWl Stairn   lird                            -            -     -     -     -       -    t30           746     -       -     -      -     -   746
otal IlNVE lT CUtS                              3.331  1.46?   382   382   392   302   362 6,913   3.169  1968   461  475   491   511   531  82306
TOUI NGTNM  Cam                              in            2  r         3023823mm1    mm          -    m.233              23332233
Totl                                             3.331  1469   382   382   382   382   382 6.913   3369  1,968   461   475   491   511   531  8,306
333333323333322333  3m                 -   ag    m 3 223o32322332332232
/a  For civil uorks and eiulents includn 203 MA  an toreim  costs. I2 scial b etits,
0.52 insmcton lmev  0.2  trinini  lvws ad 152 VAT on t           cost.
APiW 159 198   WOO30



- 30-                                                  TABLE 3.1
Page 2
mXicO
MUT    HIIIITATIU PRUEC
TaSl 2. Nazallo /a
*                 htalIed Cost Table
Dos Cosds                               TOtals inciWin Counttamcl
(to  OW)                                           n   'W)
me   "inl     1m /M2 2         1      994 5 Tetd   99 sM    o 909  992 2M   931N  4/  Tota
A. Nederotsh son pdrito lhat
Cntanr Noding Ess (4 T Torliftr)  325-                                 -25  375-                                          -               - 375
MTotal lduolzal So Pedrito har -25 -.2    -  -                                                                                                    2 - - - 375
R, Grain Storas
Nslticsl Storage 1N (29000 T)                           254  -    -    -    -    -  254                    296 -2                               26
tors I Ttailers                                   325--                                     225  375 --                                        35
hmae  Unloads  (WOO  1N)                                10    -    -1                                     222 - -             -       -       -   222
9-Tal 6dn Stora                                       25 44--r79 375 518--92
C.  bhabilitatlon of lb Fdrito
EuA n                                             992  397  397   97  W    2    297 m3U6   1132  465  479  493  510  531  552 4161
Eletrka ivte                                       22-                                  - 21 26 -  - - - - - 26
Vater    s                                                -         -   -    -        -     - 1120    142    -                                 142
FinrPrtecton                                        4 - - - - - - 4  5 -                                                                         5
stririn                                            It    -          -     -     -     -     -  11     13    -          -     -     -     -     -    123
SbTt   oalW ilitatlon of San Pdrito                 .19   m     m      m     297  397  2   32522  1,317  465  479  493  510  521  552 436
taWl  VETM COTS                                       1799   041   297  297  m          7   m     4.617   2066   9    479  49   510  531   52  5,614
m  a.o     m   m                 m       -  am   am  m    1m, -             -mM   m
TOWI                                                   1,799  941  297  397  m     27  397 4617   24046  9     479  493  510  531  52  5614
Is  For civil wvoks and siAsnt inluhde  22M  b an toeit  cts. 12 s1cial bnst its.
0.52  nseton leme 0.22 ttdan     lew  and 152 VAT on totl cost.
rtil 15, 1998 ll30



Ii             I E  |                       If [f[uE'>                I: "   Xg1XX   [rtq ii[ j  [111111ll11 1IHI"1
gg~~ gllEElla,                                                                   I   :1 &    1 
1l      IlglglXl#X.bXs*^E.Eg    ElsEs                    ;1i1i   i1i   glX}sgs*#    Slsl"S                     21a" II
ff W1 &..........                                      11    IE 1..1....R 
g le1||.1.1...... ....                                                     ...1. ".|. "S$s|.  g51
IIl#le.I  .......I...              . Ii ...l.    ui .                    . . I  .   .    l....     .   I .,  ...
I~lil clef.. ..... ...                                                  ..i.... .1.    .1 .... cit    . .ei    .1...      15
I II    I     .......i.* ...                                              .....,.    1.      ....    *.        I.
I UIVIl .I. ...                                                           ......i S. *@     .  I  . .1.  ml......  1...   II
E      I N I3I. l.. .. .......                      .       .1. J    . I  .e...... i..  1..S                                          (a..
ltist..!....  .  . .I..i..i                                         ........        O  F| ..... q



- 32 -
TABLE 3.1
Page 4
11  IUil3ATIO   mmEC
Tal 4. Vuaum  Is
Dtiled Cd Table
kw Cos                                    ToWls Inludisr Contlinuis
(M1US000)                                           (Iii '000)
M 8990               nm/92 92m    9494ns  otl   1/89 O      9/   90/9    M   2 92n 9M   U4 945 Totl
It DEw COST
CA. esale Terslnl/htio emi
to Civil gabt
Naotind olNiIn                                -        125 1       U       S             20        -   1S I    1t     -    -    -    -    309
Pb'el  Ctsoi                                  - 202 -    -    -0                                  -   112      -         -     -     -     -    31:
Otn Ttmtev Si.t"                            451   902   4         -    -    -    -.1404    544 1,105   569    -    -    -    -  2.21
lTotl Cvill U4   1 23T    576    -    -    -    -  24314    544 1.57   74                                                -    -    -    -  24834
2, E    4Aumt
Eaulat hiabllltal n                         U7   28    252  282  292   22  202  2.369    77              29    3   349  361   7             2,923
Contim OWNr  (1)                              - 2,000  2000    -    -    -    -   400              - 2.31   2,40t     -    -    -    -  44M
Straddle Ctr  (2)                             -  1.024  1.04    -    -    -    -  2,049            -  1t198 1234    -    -    -    -  2432
TardTrator (6)                              m        -      -  18515              2-    "        31       -      -    30 2         - -        839
Oawhs (15s                                    - 129291  9 ---  7W    - I 1 1-- -  466
For tUn (4)                                   -   1N    13  13-                          459       -   179   194  190    --             -      53
-Total EglAE t                                 9m  3-513  3.8 l749 n467  22   M    9.96   1,149 4919   4.22   929 19  376  39m  11961
TtalO        tiubr tei     /rdtid Tel           1,450 4.875 4.164  749  467  2             2C2 12,270   1695  5a,735046  92   599  3             14,M
TOta IIESTENT COSTS                                1a5  4.754164  749  467  212  232  12,270   1,691  5.76a  54                  929 59?37   391 14,79
TOta                                                1.450  4.875 4164  749  4a   292  282 12270   1969   5763 59046   29   9   36   391  4,7M
/a  For eivil sois a    bamt In     20 *At a torl* cdst  11 sowial b1eit.
0.1 im     tiWon lev. 0.23 tralalM   I. ad 13 UT an tt  cst.
irl 15, 193  11131



r
itill out Su ;;sq
I= tp. MD us X Pp  WIT XI atd us"  WPM   ' w  Ut W'M         M       R sq e  I
9UQt-       tt w't "lot wi't WMt -          IT -         st m; fast UN      -                                                 tRl
a -    wt  wt ap t   efst a"     t-    et't -   a   Stt't W          t& an   -                                   tam         tis i __   
5;   -   -    -    - -        t~ t   -   en   - -t  -         -    -   @en   -                                         _pqe .
* But  -   wt w'4I Meiqm        lt -    on'#-           ti"    m    et    ' - -            inw a        t "w'a 'W   t6si
93qC  *   -    -    -       .t 9c  -    a          a   -    -             -                                          ft tu 0.
gS -   a; ae;z sue;  t; S; *    .t  -   pj  3   "   pa   m,  -                                               oIatd Mq
IS     -    -    -    189  -    -    oNc   -   -   -    -    UC  -    -                              (,)luU         W11 uSlq
wa$   -   Ru   us  rt   ur   -    -    tIS'; -   Ca;  ttt  Wt   l   -    -                               'u"u fnaatnoi-
tU    -   *    -    -    -    -    -    t   -   -   -    gt-          .    -
RU   -   -    RU-    -    -    -    t   -   -   91-    -    -    -                                                  0l1AA
an   -          -    -    t-  -     -    Vt   -   -   -t  -   -    -    -                                             s-
e   -   -    -    91-    -    -    Ut   - -            -     U-       -    - WI 
43.-          -    -                     WI-    -    U    -   -   -    WI -     -     -                      Gt'ws
a2*    -   -    -    -    tt  -    -    .3    -   -   '    -    us -    -                                          n  wn
::9    .; .    .            -        .   z       -   -       -        S   -t4  -                                    oU
ma;.   -_   e;t          1t11            1Z' -_ - _ t' ij;    m   pe;.-    _                      wtSsO
"'t  -   -    11tPt -    -          -    wO     - -            -       -                                            w4mllu
tg -    -     tl#' --        *    fWI            -    No-        -                                      1
SUn   -   -    -    -    6t   -    -    91   -   -   -    -    91  -    -                                      S3tSPIpl
usP   -   -    -    -    us  -    -    mul  -   -   -    -    am   *    -                                     oaeetw 4m
u                                                                                                             a-    -  -  -- ---e
tlC - - - - -                 tin- 1?-- - - -   1t -                                                               36tW
urn =.m  m m          mm mummmingnm commato asm= "Mso
tovi Wm     S.U (u uuuw    a             lW       U Wu Wu A)       W6
owl WMlWJ mWbzaaI stotoi  '. ORION
wPO  ttl t"l~~~~~~~tP tsoo 393
if UIPAO Is OWL
IUI 1UIUhU  sam
Om
T
v*~~~~~~@ 'S 1



- 34 -
TABLE 3.1
Page 6
MMO
Fm "wwwn  tam
tailed Cat TPble
kw cost                                TOWs rimluid   Cbstis
(U  'OO)                                        (    '00)
MM            "       tM 9/ 2/M3 U4      Totl  U/ O    9M      9011 1M 92 92M  9/4   YS4 ToW
so AVIo                                     m   nmuuu um-                               mun  C-M                                   u
A.  hojwt lSwuvision wA  Stuis
to Uetvisian ot CmNtiUtm
son .u                                      J   2 m                  4  -  -                           24  I  7   5  --    32
N0lllo                                       17 13      5  2  -  -   4  211  10)   3  -  -  6
Tticoamlta                                   6  131 10  29               5 4  4  342  73 161 1    82  7  6 6  4
Vretuz                                       14   51  4  1   4   -   -  122  17  63  56 12    5  --   152
T-Ttd Swemsimo mt n en                        V/  21 2616  4 15 4  4 57   146265 2                            l 211    220 6 6 717
2, Port Studies
FmiblUtvt uls                               A    VW      U    20                      333    46   229  111   26    -            -     -   413
bred"lMStudw                                 *   450  350    -    -00                         -    52  442    -    -    -
KM U3 tfanhbational tudu                     -    45   35    -    -    -    -    80           -    55   44    -    -    -    -    99
as FWaucolzid bl:        atiun  -s60   40                               -10                   -    74   51    -    -    -    -   124
EuAuont Nainwn Podr S                        - 1N------120  - 147------14
Cut kisuind                                  -  196 1%    -  241   -   -   -   -   -  241
Si-rTo   Pert Studies                          28 1.053  513   20    -    -              -  9   46 1299  640   26    -    -    - 2,09
SToa  Pt      At SUPrViuim aNd studies           15   1274   6 06    15    4    4 2204   192 1,563  I59   09   20    6    6 29735
To ta l E IBIT  OWS                                 159  1.274   68    63   15    4    4 2,204   192 1U   859    9   20    6    6 2,735
-           _         _        _~   _~ _-         ----  -          __    _   _  _- _ _
Totl                                                 159127460  68    15    4    4 2.204   192  1                 O563f    89   20    6    6 2.35
Aril 15. 1M    1181



35 -
TABU 3.2
Pil    U3LT.  ISFUE
P.M., kme  ts by veat
hU CosMs
1I  '00)                           Fu      ut
MM         0    / "M   1/9  92M    3/94 9/   Tota            I  _mu,t
it mom                                                      m             - .un           m      si
1. "ff COPS/
A. civil VDAS /a
1t NM                           31.10   7.21?  6417  2.119        -      -      - 19.43    42.9    .331
2. Ibhalltim                     1.31   1.134    532    20        -      -      -  3.25      79    1235
Total civil Wh*s/s                  4,510  0353  749m    232         -      -     - 22.9       42.2    95
3. b ul _ ut /b
=  1. mb                            5.796  11.376  0332  2.324 1.594 1372 1.246 32.542   59.3   192m
2. IbdbilitatIon                   715    282    282    232    282   2        282  29478   59.1    1.464
WiY-Ttl EuleA nt lb                 6.581 11658  83.614  34106 1l376 1,654 1,530 35.020   59.3   20.755
C. DOM*" /c
1. sar.e ars                        -  1,33   2.323    034   634   834         -  6.667   60.0    3.999
2. IsdlbiAltatluo                    -  1,027  1#349  1,457 2.501    147        -  6,482   60.0    3,987
SWb-Total Iadris /c                    -  2.366  39677  2.291 3435   980          - 13,14    60.0    7,986
3. Teical ASiSte
1. Suervidsinotf Cmstruction       121    216    167      48    15       4     4    575   76.0        43J
2 fort Studis                       38  1,056    513      20      -      -     -  1,629   76.0    1.230
Total Tedmial Asdstanr                15   1,274    60       63    15       4     4  2.204   76.0    19675
Total WOUEWE  C0TS                    11.250 24.151 205471  7.793 5.226 2.639 1.534 73dO65   54.6  39.82
Total IMEINE COMS                     11.250 249151 20.471  77M   5.226 2t39  1.534 73.063   54.6   39O82
ftluical CmtlOmCi.s                   796  1,75  1.800    739   596   230    77  6213   53.8    39345
Price Cotinmnciu                     1.076  2.755  3,085  1.470 1.285   774   513 1093   61.38    673
Total MMBECT CoSTS                    13W123 238A82 25,356 10,002 7,107 3.443 2.129 90241    55A4   504000
TAM                                  3277  7021  6202  2.457 i821   947   564 220290    0.0                 0
hremi*t fN_                         7V137  15.13  13.803  5189  4.330 2M224  1.303 50,000    0*0            0
/a For civil  rks Ed 1d       t. inclules 20X   "  i our fomis costs 1t ro6ia   e titst
O.5  inmtion lm. 0.25 tranina Ioen  and 15 VAT on otal ost
lb for civil vorks aN  emuSnt inclden 20! dut, on toreign co sts 1Z socid betits
0.5! imcUon Iw  02M trdanine Im. rd 152 VAT    total cost,
lc for dmd.  hbilitation  incluus 2012 du, tforein   ts pluco  s k    15 vslue adu tax an the total cut,
bril 15. 198 11:31



No=
FM CMDIM       AC
IIEI3 IIF 3331t I
HIM ''F00
ins 118) ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     KO  g         D     M
3.. C"in at (omal    M_in                                  Prire C     _iu TItal I                       nel.   t     UtOsO ol
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Fl   kme Cuts
(Ear. besI(El.bAs I                                            (Eal.he                         (ta    bAls            am Xer1        . t m
For lId  Tuns   1m      Tte   Fats lth TS) Tu    TVA   Foh. Et. Tus  Tus  totld  For, It. Turs     TrB   Tota                     ctt      kw cuts
t           CM
1. UmW -a
I. NW                            &a     6W    44w  1"VW          u        a6     46s 1994          1.27S23    59   2W          1a"4 6          s3     z9 m        2.12      21.1
2. SiUtl                         1215  1.s8       na  b2.6          1      2      n    36         14    0        a      229     12m3  t1=2       IN      M          356      164
-WT --il -1    W -     T -IW -m -aZ-
-TWI  Cd il h 1his                                                                  Su 5994   53166   6.0 ff7                                                        2.513     MM138
3. Imra 
1 no                            VM.2     4.72    315 2oS52.50             227     46 12    ld ;   42    13    4#.35             223p    S4     120.     29A0     1.03      27.1
2.I llltat                      1.46     266     6472 24           73    a       22   14                4 N     1      446      10      48      31S2.AM            1to      1.
-Tua Elb. A                        2U.1  5.10    .1312       8      1       11      48  1t.1       2W    47    1.4     5s.1       2.8   SAM   U.6  42.9              2.1       4m
1.       _ Gm" Prtf 2l  l.w    1.6   4.10                          do    1to      2S  1.          812   122      37  1.24       5.410  1.272   2.267   .9V2       1.11       77
2. bIl_Ut M                       387      72   1.2   6.D                 146    242   m          IN    1n34     36   132       5.34  1.252   221   3W            I.146     71
bA-Total hohi Ic                   7.38   1.971 d2.292 14           1.1m     216    494  17M        .1     2.6     4     2.S94    10735  2.5Z    4.4    177          W31       15.45
to .kmvlsl      .                  42     52       86    55         44     5       9    M          6?     4      1       6        Su      6      1      717          65        a
2. ot Sis                        1t28    147      24   16           124    15     24   16   11      2    11      34    2        1.       172           2.1          to       1.2
bToa Teiskl                          .              a&   t.                  a       U    228        2      is      4     21       202    2         410  2.75         2        2. 
ta Dl   lWE3lI l51 O.m U 2 1M6  17.94   MM                             2,245 16    1.51  6.21         63 1.248   2.30   a.1  l              17.3   22.290 9.261         .0       3b2w
TIa                                   29.00  15m.2   17.94  7h0         1.4  1.w     1.t3   6.213      6.7  1,33   246  19a           .011V,1  2.0  9.241               7.0      3s2.1
/a   r F ivdiU w   _and umlomlt  lawt  2M    em tos em       , dt   soa Smofts.
0.3 looecema Iw. 0.3 trala   I"" ad Ust ema tote cOot.
_Uz 1m dW m1 and smdsUi3n2    A               Ztw     mb  n sii  bm1
A  hor ciil  is      __rm. olb  211J e 90m    tlst. 12 mill Smti
A leetl*m law  8.3i talal  low. tad 13   m   t    rest.
Jr Fa MO   idihta m  do_l     2         s em foe0 *es  pltS 1= vale iibt  eto  totaI cost
bOml.1   um



- 37 -
TABLE 3.4
Mm U_aitAI3  ICt
$mm keswit by VW
Ttal. tiug"Ua Couatniue                                  Total litliM"  bilm lo.m
OmN 1*)                                                  4810a)
so   89/93  Om/9   91/9  92/9  93/9  9           TOW     NW    W9/9   90/9   W92  am/  9219  94/   tow
3. _."m
is.civil bib/a
1.o N                          3,4   11060  80,4  2sM           -     -      - 23.M      3.ISM     06"   39   2,70       -  -     -     2.3.7m
2. bI lttim                     1sm9  Im        7       2M 0    -     -      -  3.92    1ow    1362    m         263     -     -      -  3192
al-Total cid ii bib IaZ 5.52  10.051 .3-17  29M                   -      -        -                     -;67.? 1.    9.31?  2.6  -  -   - Vo.n
*.        a    lot  ie /b
i. bu*                          6,5 13,276 10.6 2  3,433 2          , 0 1.1 1tO   390    67   126        .2  3.4MM  20   11  1M732 3.06
2.  alit Um                      92   -9    319    10  361   3             391 3t         902      9    3        30    31   37    31 3D04w
ToW  Eswith Ab                      5 1W     10.361  m32  2,407 2.20  2.2  421095   73 13U    10.3    3.152 2.407 2.20? 2.123 42.93
C.gobi  /c
t. Pt-  2.1    30     1,3  1WO 1.1                                           - ,929         -  2.MO    MU   lt3  17  12117            -   -tt29
2.  _ltm                           *  132  1iM    1976 39W     214           -  8.W         -  1.312  17M   1M9   39         214      -  elm
Totad  bo     /                       -3         49   3htO  4.9 1.43)          - 17716         -     6   4       3.10  4.6   1.41T      - 17716
s ToWl   st
I.woslm       omstlim            146    2U1    21       6      2      6     6    717      146    26      21       2    20      6     6    n7
2.fttltdio                        46  1.293    64       26      -  -         -  20t1       416  1,21    63       26      -     -      -  2019
Sb-Total Todalall hsi,tmmd    _   19   1.14        59      39    20      6     6  2,135        2 1.92   s            9    20      6     6  2.735
Total 116BII    3131A                1.123 23 2 5 10 2.02 7,107               2       0      12J    3   3          102  710  3.64  2.1    0,24
- -    -      -                   m~~~~~~  --- ----  - -------    m---m-m-m
Total    CT 6l 3                     13123 23.|2  36  100   7,i17 htO7   2,2  9U0,241  131123             2  25,35610 IO     1   3.64W   2,2  90.241
lm              wsuim    n mm -                          ema  mu mu mu m                             m mu
/a Ve NMIvi Cuibmloiwt    ISiMu26  I%08  M15 fo          I cat  11W mcli   2ut Us.        4        VM N         R61          oW 3021             *4
/b for civil aftib  ad ouuut tudust  M  eU   am ftuias cost. 11 sial b.tlUt.
0. For  vUtm   low. 0.3 tdoiU   lW. 2d 13 m totl  os t .
0.31 im Ue 1918      0*9tI           r#StI            n   Wet
/c rot Ivab  twiuItiam   iwludss 201 Us a total  MoUt ptiA 13 vwe   amb  toe onm Wb to         MLcot
brill 15o1903113



- 38 -
TABLE 3.5
P        RMLITATION PMC
Projet CoIwornts by Tar
(U  '000)
3au Costs                           Total
88/89  89"   9om     91M/2  92m   93(94 9/95    US$  MUS '000)
At Part klbiltUtion I Emdmnt
I  Ouan#                                   3,331  1669    382    382   382   3         382   6.913       .13
2. Imnillo                                 1 789    841    397    m       397   397   397   4,617       4,617
3. TwpicWAltait                            4.521 12:626 11,170  3,905   629   592   468  33,912    3i912
4. Vr'aciut                                1,450  4.975  4,164    749   467   m        292  12,270    12,270
Sub-Total Port ROhWbilitation I Eguipunt     11,091 20t012 16,114  5.434 1,876 1,654 1,530  57,711    57,711
h. Riabilitation Of Dredes                       -  2M866  3677  24291 3,335   90           -  13149    13,149
Co Institutional Dhvuloimt                      159  1.M       680     68    15      4      4   2M204      2M204
Total  SEUINE COSTS                            11.250 24,151 209471  7.793 5M226 24639 1534  73,065    73,065
Pheuical Contingmncies                         796  1975  1,800    739   596   230    77   6,213          6,213
Price ContiiUwins                            1,076  2.755  3M085  1470 1.285   774   518  10,63    10U63
Total POJECT COSTS                             134123 29.882 25.356 A0,002 7,107 39643 2W129  90,241    90"241
Tus                                          377  7,021  6,202  2s437 1,321   947   564  22P290    22M2M0
Forhe*  Excb  e                              7,137 15.813 13,503  5,389 44330 2.224  1.303  50Q00        50,000
April 15. 193 Mi:"1



tco
PORTS RBIt IUTATII3 PRJIECT
ProJEct C_mONnts by year
Totals Ineludns CoatnUnies                                  Totals IhludinM Continuiues
(USS '000)                                                  (MS '000)
NMW891/0   99    TIM   92/ m          93/4 94m   Total    88/89  89/         /91  91/92  92/3       4   4/95  Total
A. POt bhd Iltton I E_im't
1.    us                                    31369  1,968    461    475   491   511   531  8,306   3M86   1968    461    475   491   511   531  8,306
2. Nanill                                   206       983    47?    493   510  .531    52  5,614   2,066    983    479    493   510   531   552  56U4
3. Talceo/Altaoir                           5.302 14.943 134672  4912   87   78?   649  41073   5t302  14,943  13.672  49912   807   789   649 41,073
4.  sVa,e                                   1.693  5,763  5.046    929   5?   376   391  14797    1,693  5.763  5046    92    59    376   391  14,77
Totd    Port _lbiltatiwn  1 Euimmt           12.930 23,18  19.657   ,806  2,407 2P207 2,123 69,790  12,930  23t658 194657  6,808 2,407 2W207 2,123 06.90
3. td.llitatimn ot DveBds                          -  39661  4839  39106 4,679 19431           -  17,716       -  3661   4,839  3t106  4.679 1t431         - 17716
C. Institutimwl hvelou                           192  1,563    859       89    20       6      6  2,735      192  1,563    859       89    20       6      6  27M
Tota  PRE   COST                                13J123 2689M2 254356  10,002 7,107  3,643 29129 90.241   13.123 23,882 25.356  10M002 7.107 3.643 2.12?  M0241
_- _= _3 = = s  -==  == == = := s=s=
Ari 15, 199  1131
W



- 40 -
TABLE 3.7
MM   IrO TAU  NMIT
Suasm ftcoimt bv ProJec COeWmNo
tul3 100)
uicad
porlt w.sbilt.uion I wieun                                                    cantiadeci.s
-Muttion of IfuuiMW
_ e es Imewilio Tapico/Alts"lra WVrarz            Dr            DWloent  TOtl          I     _iwI
I. IIIUESNT  COT
As Civil Works/a
I. New                           221          -            16.900    2,314                -             -  19A436  10.0  1.94
2. Ibhbilitation                1,594        156            1,105        -                -             -   3256  10.0    326
sub-Totl Civil lorks /a            1,816        156          18.406     2.34                -              -  22691  10.0  2,269
t. EMu        /f
t. "                            *.1        4,461           15,96    7.V                   -             -  32,542   5.0  1t6
2. kabflitatn                                  -               -    2.369                 -             -   2.478   50    124
W -Tot   Eminent lb               5,097       4,461          15106    9.956                  -             -  35S020   5.0  1751
C. *ndo% /c
1. Ir  Parts                        -                                                   6 -  -  . 667   -   6,667  15.0  1,000
2. RAilitatim                                                  -         -              .42             -   6,432  15.0    m
Taotal Drd   /                        -          -                -        -            13.149             -  13,14   15.0  1.972
I. TedrAical Asistac
1s :evisian ot Costrution          -           -               -         -                -           575     575  10.0      a
2. Port Studies                     -          -               -         -                -         1.9   1.629  10.0    1a
Staul Tcdl A                                -             -            -                     -         2.204   2,204  10.0    220
Total JIIETHEI OlTS                 J6913       4W61            33.912   12,270            13,149         2,204  73,065   8.5  6,213
Totl WAMLIIE COSTS                    6913       4.617           33,912   12,270            13.149         2,204  73.065  805  6.213
iwical Cotinowies                    436        239            2.U6       729             17m             220   6,213   0.0       0
Price Ctienciu                       957        78             4545    1,7W               29594           311  10,943   7*9    869
ToaI  OT   COSS                       0.306      5,614           41.073   147M              17?716         2,735  90M241   7.8  7,082
TaxO                               2.108       1496            9.893   3J925              4458            410  22290   7*7  1.724
Foriln Etmne                        4,595      3,464          20,078    9,036            10.735         2.092  50.000   7,8  3ao79
Is Fet civil wrk ad =iuu4. inclde 20t  Ms o ?seM cLsts 1 socid beitst
0.1 insection 1gw  021X taint  Iv  and 12 VAT on total cost.
lb For civil works &i euiset, inclues 20 Me on toreign cost 1S soil   bets.
0.52 i    _seo  lows 0.22 trainlW  levt eN  13 VAT an toal cot
/c For dOW    rebilitationt inclun 205 Mut on forien costs F0ut1S vaue a            tax an t  totl cost,
deil 15. 198 1131
J



- 41 -
TABLE 3.8
EXCO
PORTS REHWALITATION PRJET
PRJECT COST MMW
(USS '000)              (US  '000)                    Z Total
- -   ---ZI Foreign Omse
Local Foreign lotal    Local Foreign Totl   Exchange   Costs
ummt=  an=== auuu=    mums=  #Uumu cmca=  umount=              a
As Port  abilitatim  I Ewireent
I. 0  a ms                                   3W141  3&M     6913    3.141   37M     6.913           S5        9
2. Nm anillo                                 179   2,824  4.617   l17     2.824  4,617              61        6
3. Tawico/Altairia                          174615  16,297 339912   17P615  16297 33,912            48       46
4, VerwcrVU                                  4^841   7,429  12.270   4.841   79429  124270          61       17
Dub-Totl Port RehbIlitation   Euipemnt         V739  30,322 57.711   27,390  30.322 57,711             53       79
fibhabilitstion of Dredges                     52264  7MU06 13,149   5,264  7M886  13,149             60       18
C. Institutional Dawloesnt                        529   1,67    2,204      529   1,675  2W204          76        3
Total AS9ELINE COSTS                             33,182 39,882 73,065  33,182 39.882 73.065              55      100
P"hsical Contingencies                        2N868   3,345   69213    2.86    39345  6.213           54       I
Price Cmntingmcies                             4.190   67M   10963    4.190   67M   10,963            62       15
Total PROJECT COSTS                              40.241  50.000 90.241   40.241  50.000 90.241           55      124
bril 15I 1988 ll31



- 42 -
TABLE 3.9
MEXICO
PORTS REIABILITATION PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(US $ Million)
Funds Required:                      local _/   Foreign        Tbtal
Guaymas:                              3.7           4.6         8.3        7
Manzanillo:                           2.1           3.5          5.6       5
Tampico-Altamira:                    21.0          20.1        41.1       36
Veracruz:                             5.8           9.0        14.8       13
SEDRA                                 7.0          10.7        17.7       16
Other Items:                          0.6           2.1         2.7        2
Project Total:                       40.2          50.0        90.2       79
Debt Service during Project: 2/                    22.5        22.5       21
Total Funds Required:                40.2          72.5       112.7      100
Funds Available:
internally generated:
- 4 Ports  2/                 20.6                      20.6       18
IBiD Loan:                                         50.0        50.0       44
Government Finance:                  19.6          22.5        42.1       38
Total Funds Available:               40.2          72.5       112.7      100
Notes:
1/ The above figures represent US$ equivalent at MEX$610 to the dollar and
include all duties and taxes (about US$ 24 million)
2/ Includes 8% interest (assumed), 3/4X commitment fee during project
Implementation.
3/ The four project ports are expected to generate approximately US$69
million equivalent during the project period. However, some US$48 million
equivalent will be used for maintaining existing assets aud capital
replenishment.
Source: DGP & Mission Estimates



-43 -
TABLE 4.1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disburse,rents
(US$ Million)
IBRD                    Estimated           Estimated          Estimated
Fiscal Year               Semester            Cumulative         Cumulative
and Semester            Disbursements         Amounts          As X of Total
1989
December 31, 1988       11.0 1/               11.0                22
June 30, 1989            3.0                  14.0                28
1990
December 31, 1989        4.5                  18.5                37
June 30, 1990            4.5                  23.0                46
1991
December 31, 1990        6.9                  29.9                60
June 30, 1991            6.9                  36.8                74
1992
December 31, 1991        2.7                  39.5                79
June 30, 1992            2.7                  42.2                84
1993
December 31, 1992        2.2                  44.4                89
June 30, 1993            2.2                  46.6                93
1994
December 31, 1993        1.1                  47.7                95
June 30, 1994            1.1                  48.8                98
1995
December 31, 1994        0.6                  49.4                99
June 30, 1995            0.6                  50.0               100
1/ Including initial deposit of US$6.0 million into the Special Account.



- 44 -
ANEX 1
Page I of 4
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Institutional Framework of Mexico's Ports
A. Background
1.        The present instituti,ial organization makes it almost impossible
to do any central operational analysis or to prepare a coherent and
comprehensive ports investment plan. The principal reason for this is the
fragmentation of responsibility for different parts of the planning process.
Ironically, the most difficult step--namely, to have all the relevant
agencies under one ministry-has already been taken. Furthermore, the
decision to make the SCT Planning Directorate (DGP) ultimately responsible
for coordinating the planning of all transport modes, is also a step in the
right direction. However, the DGP is not as yet equipped with the
specialized skills required for detailed port planning, nor for that matter
for the more detailed aspects of railway or aviation investment planning.
Clearly, it should be responsible for putting the whole picture together and
assuring the application of proper economic evaluation criteria for
determining the optimal modal split of freight and passenger traffic. The
collating, analysis, forecasting, evaluation and recommendation of possible
alternative ways of solving future transport problems could be done by the
respective specialized agencies. This, however, requires an agreed system
whereby the overlapping responsibilities and/or responsibility gaps are
eliminated.
B. The Present Situation
2.        The proliferation of Government agencies dealing with port matters
has created a certain overlapping of some investment planning functions on
the one hand and a lack of clear, fully integrated functional
responsibilities on the other. A brief look at these agencies' roles in this
process is presented below:
(a)      The National Commission for Port Coordination (CNCP), which comes
directly under SCT is, among other things, the holding agency, on
behalf of the Government, of most of the shares in the Port
Services Companies (ESPs). It employs a staff of some 320 people
in Mexico City, pl'zs others throughout the country. It can, and
does, obtain its own port operating data as part of its control of
the ESPs. It also has available relevant cost data on port
operations, equipment, etc., but has little or no information
concerning the cost of port infrastructure and its maintenance.
This situation may currently be changing with the retention by CNCP
of a part of port dues to cover costs of infrastructure maintenance
in the ports. CNCP has also the responsibility for producing long
tenm traffic forecasts. However CNCP's forecasts are not
necessarily those used as a basis for the physical planning done by
the Direccion General de Obras Karitimas (DGOW).
(b)      The General Directorate for Port Operations and Development (DGODP)
is the Government agency in charge of port operations, under the



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
Subsecretary of Operations for SCT. It employs some 1700 people
throughout the country (19 Port Superintendency offices and central
staff in the capital). Though its name implies otherwise, it is no
more than nominally in charge of development. The central office
in Mexico City gathers traffic statistics and productivity data
through superintendency offices in all the principal ports and
publishes this data with little or no analysis. In its present
form such data serves little purpose and has not, in the past,
always been easily obtainable by other agencies which require it.
The new Director General appointed in 1986, is planning to relate
productivity statistics to targets agreed upon formally as part of
the operating concessions given to the ESPs.
(c)      The General Directorate of Marine Works (DGOM) is responsible to
date for the construction and maintenance of all the civil works in
Mexico's ports, and thus also responsible for the major
investments. It seems to work somewhat independently of the
others.  This may be due partly to the fact that, unlike the two
above-mentioned agencies, this one comes under the SCT's
Sub-Secretary for Infrastructure, whereas DGODP is responsible to
the SCT's Sub-Secretary for Operations and CNCP comes directly
under the Secretary of SCT. DGGK therefore, has its own Planning
Office where it develops its own traffic forecasts as a basis for
its port master plans. Its statistical and productivity data on
present and past operations must be obtained from one of the other
two agencies. Whereas dredging, both capital and maintenance, was
up to recently also the responsibility of DGOM, the Government
formed SEDRA, in late 1985, a separate, semi-autonomous entity with
national responsibility for dredging surveys and operations.
(d)      Dredging Service (SEDRA), has been set up as a separate unit to
bring some order and organization into the Government employed
2,300 strong work force and 24 dredges (plus two on order).
However, it is to remain financed by the Federal budget. The
decree setting up this new agency states that one of its tasks is
to formulate a dredging program for the short, medium and long
terms. However, no indication is given as to how such programming
will fit into an overall scheme of port construction and
maintenance, and the criteria and procedures to be applied. It
would be unfortunate if SEDRA were to develop yet another
independent planning unit, which is what seems to be indicated by
the language of the decree.
(e)      Port Services Companies (ESPs).  Port services in the principal
ports are the direct responsibility of commercially constituted
companies which, with some notable exceptions mentioned below, are
publicly owned. The Government, through CNCP, holds the majority
of the shares in the country's ESPs. Important exceptions to this
are in Veracruz where the union has the majority holding of the
shares, and Tampico where the port operations are done by the
Stevedore's Union, which is a union cooperative.  In the latter,
with the opening of the nearby deep water port of Altamira in 1985,
the Government set up a new type of autonomous Port Administration
(Sistema Portuario Tampico-Altamira) which is totally responsible



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
for the overall management and administration of the two-port
complex. The Union has been contracted as the sole operator in the
two ports. As commercially oriented enterprises, the ESPs are
expected, in principle, to establish their own requirements with
regards to investments in port equipment, with technical assistance
from CNCP and FIDEMAP, the latter being a Government financed trust
for the purchase of equipment for the ports. In 1985, however, it
was decided to dissolve FIDEMAP progressively and let the ESPe
purchase their own equipment. This decision is currently being
reconsidered in the light of some ESPs' financial problems.
(f)     Port Development Committees (CDP).  The most encouraging
develop!tent to date is the creation, as of 1984, of regional Port
Developaent Committees. These committees, of which nine are
alreadj in existence, are presided over by the local SCT resident
engineer in each of the states and are where all the Government
agencies involved in the operation of a port (or several small
ports) coordinate and control all port matters at the local level.
It is also where the BSPs short and medium term investment
requirements are supposed to be examined and confirmed. However,
to date this has not been the case.
(g)     In addition to the agencies referred to above, there is the
General Directorate of the Merchant Marine which comes under the
Subsecretary of Operatlons and which is responsible for navigation
aids around the coasts and in the ports, and there is also
FONDEPORT-an autonomous trust responsible for the development of
port lands, to-date, principally in the industrial ports and the
fishing ports. Both these agencies develop their own budgetary
requirements with regard to port investments.
3.        Thus, the proliferation of agencies dealing with the ports has not
created complementary functions in all cases, but rather some functions for
which two or more agencies are nominally responsible and fighting for
domination. Investment in the port subsector has until recently been
dictated largely by political considerations (as for instance, the
investments made in the Industrial Port of Altamira and in the commercial
port of Manzanillo) with insufficient economic justification, whereas no
investments were made in Veracruz-the country's second most important port,
which requires rehabilitation. The proposed reorganization of the ports
subsector and the consolidation of the port planning functions may well be
the key to a more rational use of scarce resources.
C. Recommendations
4.        Clearly, if the investment planning process is to improve, certain
changes are required.  The following is a brief outline indicating some
possible solutions and discussing their implications.
5.        A Ports Planning Bureau.  The present duplication of effort with
regards to traffic forecasting and planning and the isolation of the
statistics function in DGODP could be resolved by consolidating these
functions in one organizational unit. Considering the regulatory function of
DGODP and its title, this might well seem the most logical directorate in
which to place such a central ports planning office.  Oa the other hand, CNCP



- 47 -
ANX 1
Page 4of 4
seems to have more of the relevant skills, and is the officially designated
ports coordinating body responslble for port systeme and port
administration. It also has the most direct access to port operations and
their costs. In addition, CNC? Is a staff unit and does not come under
either of the Sub-Secretaries, Operations or Infrastructure respectively, but
directly under the Secretary of SCT. This puts It In a good position to be
above the Inter-departmental fray, and makes It a fairly obvious cholce for
locating a central ports planning bureau.
6.        Such a unit should contain the functions of compilation and
analysis of statistical data for the whole port system, traffic forecasting
and the presentation and study of lnvestment programs. It will, of course,
have to cooperate closely with DGOM, SEDRA and other agencies with regards to
cost estimating of the proposed Investments. All the statistics, forecasting
and investment planning functions should be consolidated in such a bureau.
7.        The Role of the Port Development Committees.  The evolving network
of these regiona comittees, nine of which have been set up since 1984, wlll
play a critical role in the investment planning process. It is through these
that the primary information on port capacity and demand for port services
will be fed to the central body.
8.        The CDPs should appoint specialized subcommittees of two or three
members to deal with the following:
a. Review costs and revenues on a periodic basis. Approve budgets
and review budgetary performance;
b. Organize consolidated port accounts and ensure proper control
procedures;
c. Review equipment and civil works situation, new acquisitions,
and the implementation of a planned maintenance program; and
d. Review productivity, set standards for efficient operations and
monitor these.
9.        The office work for the above subcommittees should be done either
through the Superintendencies' staff, that of the ESP, or where necessary,
contracted out.
10.       Ideally, the CDPs should be developed, by a phased two-year plan,
into local or reglonal Port Authorities, having legal and financial autonomy
and Incorporating all the present functions of the Superintendencies of
DGODP, the Captaincies, local offices of Maritime Works and CNCP, PONDEPORT
and others, and contracting operations to the ESPe and/or others on an annual
regulated basis. This should be an iastitutional objective in the longer
term, connected to a future sector loan. A precedent of similar nature
already exists in the Decentralized Entity of Tampico-Altamira which should
be strengthened through this project.
II.       At the center, the gradual merger of all port related functions
should take place, beginning with that of DGODP and CNCP, and all those
functions which are not long-term or central budget or control related,
should be progressively relinquished.
March 1987



- 48 -
ANNX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port and Waterway Dredging
A. Dredging Organization
1.       Responding to a clearly perceived need to improve the effectiveness
of ports and waterway dredging in Mexico, a Presidential Decree was issuEd in
November 1985 establishing the Dredging Service (S1DRA), a deconcentrated
Federal Government agency. Formerly the function had been carried out by the
Directorate General of DredgiAg (DRAGADO), which operated the dredging fleet
carrying out most of the maintenance dredging and some of the conetruction
dredging, although the latter work was and will continue to be carried out
mainly by private dredges under contract to the Directorate General of
MOritiam Works. S1DRA took over DRAGADO's fleet of 11 self-propelled hopper
dredges, 17 pipeline dredges, two grab dredges and a number of barges and
miscellaneous auxiliary craft (which has carried out maintenance dredging of
as much as 13.5 million m3 in 1981 but whose output bad decreased to 8.0
million m3 in 1985) as well as DRAGADO's approximately 2,500 employees, and
its 1986 budget of approximately US$12 million equivalent. The budget for
1987 is about the same. Since SEDRA is a deconcentrated agency instead of a
regular government organization, it is permitted a higher degree of
Independence and flexibility in establishing its organization and
procedures. It has already begun some actions to take advantage of this
situation, but meanwhile, it is still made up largely of the people
transferred rrom DRAGADO and, of course, must continue to carry out an active
dredgivg program.
B. Dredging Work Load
2.       Construction dredgiog in Mexican ports carried out by DRAGADO's
fleet and private contractors, has averaged about 6 million m3 per year since
around 1965. Largely as a result of this construction, maint. nance dredging.
carried out almost entirely by the Government fleet, has increased from about
2.5 million m3 in the mid-sixties to around 10 million m3 per year in the
1980's. Future increases in maintenance dredging will depend upon the new
canital dredging projects carried out. Inevitable growth of the Mexican
econouy as well as a continuing worldwide tendency for the use of vessels
with greater draft will result in the construction of new dredged
installations and increasing depths of existing channels and basins. Also
there is an existing backlog of needed dredging which has resulted from
deferred maintenance dredging in several ports. It is estimated that annual
maintenance dredging will amount to 12 million m3 by 1995.
3.       It appears that a more rigorous analysis of proposals for dredging
projects could slow the rate of increase of maintenance dredging. In the
past, projects involving major capital dredging and changes in adopted
project areas and depths bave often been authorized and undertaken without
proper economic and financial analysis. There has been little effort to
determine th true cost of the projects and to pass these costs on to the
users and beneficiaries. There is a need for a national dredging study which
would initiate procedures to properly determine optimum channel alignments,



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
cross-sections and depths and set up more rational means for transferring the
necessary funds from the beneficiaries. This study would be financed under
the project.
C. 1redging Capability
4.        With the exception of projects which can clearly be accomplished
more economically by SEDRA's fleet (usually small projects in relatively
isolated locations) construction dredging should be increasingly carried out
by contract with privately owned dredges. SEDRA should be prepared to carry
out maintenance dredging, although where it can be demonstrated that contract
dredging is more economical, such procedures should be adopted. SEDRA has an
existing fleet which should be more than adequate to carry out even the 1995
program provided that the fle,et is properly utilized and maintained. The
fleet consists of 30 dredges. Many of the pipeline dredges are old and have
low production capabilities. Also they are better suited to capital dredging
than to most maintenance works. SEDRA tentatively plans to reduce its fleet
of pipeline dredges from 17 to 5 over the next few years, retaining only
Veracruz II, Sonora, Tamaulipas II, Baja California and Xunan-Ha. It is also
planned to retire two (possibly three) hopper dredges (Frontera and
Papaloapan); they are to be replaced by two dredges already on order and due
for delivery in October 1987 and March 1988.
5.        Although the combined capacity of SEDRA's fleet is over 20 million
"3 per year, recent annual production has been around 8 million m3.  The
capacity of 20 million m3 is calculated on the basis of labor practices,
efficiency of operation and standards of maintenance that are achieved by
well-organized contractors. One major difference between DRAGADO practices
and those of a well-organized contractor is in the hours worked per year
(including time spent dredging, carrying spoil to disposal areas in the case
of hopper dredges, moving from job to job and routine maintenance).
International practice is to work 24 hours per day seven days per week for up
to 48 to 50 weeks per year. Theoretically, tais system would provide over
8,000 working hours a year, but breakdowns and other losses reduce the time
worked to an average of 5,000 to 6,000 hours. DRAGADO had been averaging
about 2,240 hours of effective dredging per year using three crews working 2
shifts per day, for a total of 14 hours per day, 5 days per week. SEDRA is
attempting to increase effective working hours (para 10).
6.        Only 2 of the 11 hopper dredges have modern equipment for the
control and measurement of dredging. Adding such equipment to the remaining
hopper dredges could increase their output by 20 to 30%. Crews and
supervisors are generally in need of training in modern efficient dredging
techniques. The postponement of regular maintenance and rehabilitation of
the dredges has resulted in loss of capacity and more frequent breakdowns.
7.        Although the present dredge fleet is not expected to be enlarged
(in fact the number of pipeline dredgers will be reduced) it appears that by
introducing the measures discussed in paragraphs 5 and 6 above, the capacity
of the fleet can easily be increased from its 1985 output of about 8 million
M3 to at least 15 million. However, the increased capacity will be achieved
only if corrective actions similar to those discussed below are carried out.



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
D. Corrective Actions
8.        Management and organization.  In the short run SEDRA needs
assistance in optimizing its existing organization and procedures. While the
existing organization appears to be generally adequate, SEDRA is new and its
organization is untried. A detailed study by consultants to recommend
changes, to devise and document procedures, to prepare such items as job
descriptions and operating manuals, ard to advise on such matters as career
programs, pay scales and labor relations would appear appropriate. The
changes recommended should be designed to take full advantage of the
flexibility permitted to SEDRA as a deconcentrated agency including:
a.     flexibility in administering its budget;
b.     direct negotiation for budget increases;
c.     easing of import restrictions for spare parts;
d.     aimplified customs procedures; and
e.     flexible personnel procedures.
9.        In the longer term SEDRA should move toward becoming an autonomous
self-financing Government corporation which would finance itself by charges
to port operators which in turn would collect from port users and
beneficiaries. The consultants that carry out the ehort term management
assistance should be in a good position to help develop the longer range
proposals which would be included in the National Dredging Study.
10.       Operational improvements. SEDRA has already started taking steps to
increase the efficiency of its dredging operations. Oae of the most
important innovations is a system to greatly improve the number of working
hours of its dredges by adding a fourth crew or shift to the three formerly
employed and adjusting working schedules.  Under the new system, the dredges
work 24 hours per day, 7 days a week for 48 weeks per year; it is expected
that this change will result in more than doubling the effective working time
per year.  Two hopper dredges began working under the new system in October
1986. The remaining hopper dredges are to be under the new system by early
1989; the pipeline dredges to be retained in the fleet will receive a fourth
crew by early 1989 and the remaining pipeline dredges are to be phased out by
1991. Crews and labor union leaders seem to approve of the new system.
11.       SEDRA intends to install modern measuring instruments and control
systems on all of its hopper dredges. Seven sets will be required since two
existing dredges and the two on order already are or will be so equipped.
Training in the use and servicing of the new equipment would be provided by
the equipment supplier.
12.       Consultants should also be engaged to analyze the skill levels of
SEDRA's employees at all levels, calculate training requirements to bring the
work force up to internationally acceptable standards, design a training
program, and assist in carrying it out.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
13.       Maintenance and rehabilitation.   Largely because of a shortage of
funds, regular maintenance (including overhaul every two to three years) has
been seriously neglected in the dredging fleet and auxiliary equipment has
not been replaced as it deteriorated; spare parts stocks have not been
properly replenished. Dredges with sufficient potential capacity to meet
requirements should be overhauled and rehabilitated as soon as possible.
14.       Consultants should be engaged to carry out a detailed analysis of
SEDRA's procedures for calculating spare parts requirements, and the
acquisition, inventory, storage and issue of spares. The review should
include an analysis of the use of local purchases to replace, in part,
centralized procurement.
15.       TD permit the dredge fleet to operate more nearly to its capacity,
a program for the acquisition of auxiliary equipment is needed. SEDRA with
the assistance of its consultants has prepared a list of equipment which has
been reviewed by the Bank staff and appears to be reasonable, Major items
include replacement of steel pipe for the pipeline dredges. Dredge pipe is a
high-wear item which must be frequently replaced. SEDRA also proposes
replacement of existing quarterboats which are over 30 years old; replacement
is planned only for the five pipeline dredges which will be retained in the
fleet. The justificatioa will be reviewed under the National Dredging Study.
16.       The Wational Dredging Study.  As discussed in paras 3 and 9 above,
there is a need for more accurately assessing the optimal program for
maintenance dredging in Mexican ports. The optimal division of dredging
activity between SEDRA's fleet and private contractors and an appropriate
system for passing the cost of maintenance dredging to the users and
beneficiaries should also be determined. Outline Terms of Reference for a
National Dredging Study to accomplish these objectives has been prepared and
is in the Project Files. This study would be complemented by a more narrowly
focussed study on Relocation of Port Related Industries from Rio Panuco
(Tampico) to Altamira (Outline Terms of Reference are in the Project Files).
B. Schedule of Implementation
17.       It would be very desirable to initiate all of the actions discussed
in paragraphs 8 through 16 above as soon as practicable. SEDRA has already
initiated some of them (e.g., increasing the effective hours worked by the
dredges (see para 10), but most of the actions wlll require additional
funding. Funds to initiate the dredge rehabilitation program and to acquire
a limited amount of spare parts are included in the SEDRA part of the 1987
federal budget. However, to carry out the bulk of the program, external
funding will be required which makes slippage likely. Retroactive financing
under the loan could help overcome the financial constraint.
F. Investment Program
18.       The investments required to support the progras  of corrective
actions is shown in Table 3.1.5 and 3.1.6.   The investments would be
undertaken in two phases; the second would be contingent on the findings of
the National Dredging Study and satisfactory implementation of its
fecommendations. The costs of the programs for rehabilitation of dredges and



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
for purchase of spare parts are based on an analysis by Consultants FOA
(Mexico). The costs of the control and measuring equipment and the auxiliary
equipment is based on typical prices in the international market. Both costs
appear to be reasonable. Since all of these it6ums will be procured through
international competitive bidding, the costs are mainly in foreign exchange.
Technical assistance will be carried out by qualified local consultants where
personnel acceptable to the Bank are available, otherwise, foreign
consultants would be required. The Plan of Action for rehabilitation of
SEDRA fleet and associated actions by SEDRA assisted as necessary by
technical assistance to be provided under the project is shown in the Project
File.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Port Efficiency
1.        There is a wealth of raw data on the operations of the Mexican
ports but much less analytical information. Quite wide variations are
observable in the statistics of the main measures of productivity (in
particular the speed of ship handling, the occupancy of berths, the time
ships spend awaiting berths, the gang productivities and equipment
availability and utilization). Nevertheless, a review of the four project
ports, together with for comparision, two other major ports (Lazaro Cardenas
and Coatzacoalcos) reveals some clear features. These are described with
respect to the main productivity measures below. Tables 1 to 4 show
productivity indicators.
2.        A key measure is the number of tons of general cargo handled hourly
by each gang (Table 1). For break-bulk the Veracruz rate of 15 tons per
gross gang hour is low compared with other Mexican ports; it is not so when
compared with rates achieved in other developing countries where 10 tons per
gross gang hour or less is commonplace. For unitized cargo the rates are
more uniform among the four project ports, but significantly higher at Lazaro
Cardenas and Coatzacoalcos. There is no obvious explanation for this.
3.        Looking at the general pattern of port employment, it is clear that
Veracruz is the largest employer by a substantial margin with an average of
nearly 1 million man-hours_/ worked in 1984 and 1985, compared with half
that for Tampico-Altamira, while neither Guaymas nor Manzanillo have exceeded
a quarter of the Veracruz total (Table 2). While the cargo mix has had some
lnfluence-a larger proportion of Guaymas and Manzanillo traffic has
generally been in the semi-mechanized categories-the general impression is
that the size of the labor force dictates the labor productivity, rather than
the volume of traffic determining the labor requirements. It is notable
however, that in all four ports there was a reduction in man-hours between
1984 and 1985 and an increase in average productivity.
4.        Another important measure is the ratio between the time spent by
ships awaiting a berth and the percentage occupation of berths (Table 3).
Normally low occupation results in minimal waiting while at higher occupation
ship waiting time can increase sharply. At none of the four ports was
occupancy very high in 1984 or 1985 but at Guaymas and Tampico it was at a
level where significant ship waiting could be expected. Consequently, the
recorded ship waiting/ship service ratios of about 14X average at each of
these ports, while somewhat above expected levels, was probably reasonable
given the draft limitations at some Guaymas berths (now being rectified) and
the generally constrained operating conditioyi at Tampico.  At Veracruz there
1/   We suspect the actual figures are not entirely accurate, but the ratios
probably are.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
was virtually no waiting time (the only significant waiting was at the grain
terminal in 1985). However, at Nanzanillo significant shipwaiting, almost at
the same level as Guaymas and Tampico, was recorded despite consistently low
berth occupation. The reason is not obvious but may well be associated with
the comparatively low equipment availability recorded (Table 4).
5.        A conventional measure of the efficiency with which berthing space
is used is the number of tons handled annually per meter of wharf length, and
a rather crude norm for general cargo is 1000 tons/meter/year. On that basis
Veracrus and Manzanillo averaging 760 and 640 tons/meter/year respectively
over 1984/1985 are below standard, while Tampico and Guaymas with averages of
1980 and 1370 tons/meter/year respectively are well above. Even if adjust-
ment is made for the differing levels of berth occupancy between the four
ports, the relative efficiency levels are not significantly changed. It must
be added, however, that at a time when port traffic is down from peak levels,
a crude measure of this type is not very meaningful; its main value is to
support the conclusion reached elsewhere that Tampico will benefit from
diversion of traffic to Altamira and that the focus of attention at Veracruz
and Manzanillo should be better utilization of existing capacity.
6.        In summary, the above port efficiency analysis shows that even at
Veracruz, where productivity is lowest, the labor productivity is acceptable
and improving, while at Tampico most indicators suggest a port which is
operating well in difficult circumstances. Guaymas operational indicators
are generally satisfactory, but at Manzanillo ship delays and low equipment
availability are cause for concern.
March 1987



-55 -                                     AMII  3
HDKXI(X                                   Table 1
m RAB^T?MOD          PR
Pbrt Productivity
Projet
Porte                     Tori/Ship Hour                 T_oo/Gross Gong Hour
-Tra-------qTaffic fi 'ye.      T-raffic lBroZ                               --
1.1    1.2      2.3   2.4    2.5  2.6    1.1   1.2    2.3  2.4  2.5  2.6
WRfl          51    56        327    -      181    -
1984           -     69       217   127    191  706        35      -     140    -    53    -
1985          36    88        245    -      234  525       24    52    148    -    74    -
maumnillo
1981          54    77        125    -      149    -
1984          68    92        143    -      143    -       38    46       52    -    46
1985          69   101        109    -      177    -       30    56       60    -     62    -
Veracruz
1981-          26    47        50    -       92  153
1984          39    92         84  312    107  214         15    65       35    -     23    -
1985          37    78         76  511      121  308       15    44       31    -    37    -
1_pco
1981          45    63         97    -       89    -
1984          51    77        141    -      116    -       25    46       67    -    34
1985          65    84        137    -      108    -       29    52       78    -    33
CoaMrator
Ports lazaro Carden"a
1984           -    130       488  515      109    -        -     98    422    -    47
1985          36   123        497    -       66    -       47    105    463    -    29
coatsacoalcos
1984         107   171         69   272     113    -       50    92       25    -    33
1985        162     124        98  219       91    -       83    80       31    -    35
31MiF~iOect Ports)
1984        57      87(3)    146   219(2)  139   460(2) 28    52(3)  73    -    39
1985        49       88       141   511(1)  160   416(2)  27    51        79    -    51
Average
S:ixect Ports    )
1L984       66      112       190  306(4)  129       -     32(5) 69(5) 123    -    39
1985        74      100       193   365(3)  133      -     39    65      135    -    45
1.1 General Cargo Break-ult
1.2 Genoral Cargo Unitized
2.3 Mlneral Semtiecbtmdcal
2.4 Ntneral Mechanizad
2.5. Agriultural Grain Semi4lecbanized
2.6  Agricultural Grain Mechanized
() PNmber of Ports
Source: SCI



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Labour Productivity
Cargo Category                      Average
1.1         1.2           2.3             2.5        All Cargo
1984 1985  1984 1985   19_84   1985   1984  1985-  ii9Ti1985
Guaymas   A  -       1.7  3.3   4.6   16.9   18.4   6.7    9.3    7.8  10.9
B  -         1   38   23        35    38    140        97   213    159
Manzanillo A  -       3.8  3.0   5.5   16.9   13.8   6.7   14.7   7.8  8.1
B  -      48    38   30         35      23   140    23    213   124
Tampico/  A  2.5    2.8  5.1   7.9    9.6   10.9   2.7    2.5   4.5  6.4
Altamira  B  229    201   87    54        110    110    78       109   504  474
Veracruz  A  1.2    1.2  4.0    2.8    4.0    3.8   2.8    4.6   2.5  3.3
B  402    364  203   293        26      34   403    231   1034  922
A - Average tonnage per man/hour
B -   Total man-hours ('000)
1.1 Break-bulk General Cargo
1.2 Unitized General Cargo
2.3 Minerals Semi-mechanized
2.5 Agricultural Graine, Semi-mehanized
Source: SCr



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
MNIcO
PORTS REBABlLrAON PRWECT
1986 Equipdent Availability (X)
Vehicle                                                                               Froet le
Axe              iForklft Trucks             Truck/Tractors  Trucks    Crates        loader
NarsT       (Guay.ma) OMnixarllo) (Veracruz)    (Veracruz)   (Veracruz) (Veracez)  QManzanillo)
1          100        80            -              -            -          -           -
2            -        80           89              80          88          -           -
3            -         -           79              85           -          -          80
4
.5            -         -           51              -           75          -         69
6           50        56           61              63          70         69           -
7           48         4           67             43           57         51           -
8           52        55           66              47          62         61          57
9            -        49           63              -           52         35          45
10          24         -           56              -            -          -          -
10 +        47        17           57              -           35         32          -
source: SCT



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
PORTS REHABILtATION PROJECT
Berth Occupancy and Shlp Waitlng Time
Guaymas        Menzanillo    Tepico/Altamlra    Veracruz
1984    1985       1984 1985        1984  1985       1984  1985
A.      53       47         32   35         58    55        38    44
B.      77       63         43   47         70    65        52    58
C.       17      11         12   11         13    15          1     4
D.       5        3          0    0          5      2        0      0
A -  Average Berth Occupacy (%)
B -  Maximm Mouitly Berth Occupancy ()
C -  Umreighted hAerae Ratio of Ship Waiting
Tim (SWT) to Ship Service Tim (SST) ({)
D -  Theoretica Ratio SIT/SST (X)
(Based UpOn queirg theory sasusming
a random arrival of shippin In port)
Souroe: ssr and Nission Estimates



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Survey of Cargo Handling Equipment
1.        In 1986, the CNCP instructed FIDEMAP to conduct an inventory and
condition survey of equipment and maintenance shops in the national ports.
This was carried out by four teams of consultants. The survey:
a. appraised the physical condition of each piece of equipment;
b. estimated the useful remaining life;
c. estimated the actual value In its present condition;
d. stated whether the equipment should be scrapped, repaired or
reconstructed; and
e. determined the requirements of the maintenance shops.
FIDEWAP used the findings of the survey and short term cargo forecasts for
the ports to develop a program of equipment rehabilitation and procurement
to satisfy the requirements of the ports through the year 1992.
Study Methodology
2.        The following methodology was established to minimize subjective
factors. The percentage of total cost was established for each of the
principal components of the various types of equipment: trucks, tractors,
trailers, cranes, forklift trucks, grain suction dischargers, conveyors,
wheeled loaders, etc. Each principal component was then disaggregated. The
methodology was developed from procedures followed by manufacturers,
insurance companies and equipment specialists. It utilized visual
inspection, operational testing and certain physical tests.  For example, if
the tires on a forklift truck had an estimated 50% of their life remaining
and tires make up 5% of the cost of the equipment, then they would contribute
2.5% to the total remaining value of the forklift truck. To illustrate, the
breakdown of the main components of a forklift truck were taken in accordance
with the following:
X of
Total Cost
Appearance                                        10
Engine                                            20
Drive Train                                       15
Brake System                                       5
Tires                                              5
Steering System                                   10
Hydraulic System                                  35
Total                                100



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The sum of the various percentages multiplied by the cost of a
similar piece of equipment yields the net replacement value of the forklift
truck. This was done for each piece of equipment in the national ports
system.
Useful Remaining Life
4.        The method followed to assess the useful remaining life of each
piece of equipment included four modifying factors. These modifiers were:
a. apparent standard of maintenance which had been followed, with
the modifiers ranging from 0.6 for very good, to 1.4 for very bad;
b. normal utilization, with factors ranging from 0.6 for one shift
per week, to 1.4 for three shifts per day;
c. environmental, with factors ranging from 1.0 for Acapulco with its
relatively clean atmosphere, to 1.2 for Lazaro Cardenas with the
possibility of industrial pollutants in the atmosphere; and
d. operating conditions, ranging from 0.6 for very good to 1.4 for
very bad.
5.        The above modifiers were utilized to estimate the useful life of
an item of equipment from the value given by the manufacturer or normally
used for that type of equipment.
Reconstruction
6.        Port cargo handling equipment can normally be reconstructed twice.
The first comprises reconstruction of the principal components with a maximum
cost of about 45% of the cost of a new piece of equipment. The useful life
after the first reconstruction is estimated to be about 90% of the useful
life of the new piece of equipment. The second reconstruction would cost
about 50% of the cost of a new piece of equipment and would provide a useful
life of about 80% of the useful life of a new piece of equipment. The
recommendation for reconstruction in the first phase of the study was made
independent of the traffic forecast for the port. The second phase of the
study considered the forecast traffic including method of cargo handling.
General Remarks
7.        In general there is a surplus of certain types of cargo handling
equipment in the ports. Forklift trucks are in surplus in both Veracruz and
Guaymas. With a proper equipment rehabilitation program, replenishment of
spare parts stocks, and introduction of a proper preventive maintenance
program it would be possible to distribute the surplus equipment to other
ports in the system. It appears to be easier to obtain replacement equipment
than it Is to maintain an adequate supply of spare parts and have a proper
preventive maintenance program and promptly carry out necessary repairs.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        One common problem is that there are permanent operators and casual
operators. The permanent operators act as though the equipment were personal
property and operate It accordingly. The casual workers exhibit much less
concern for the equipment.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Description of Project Ports
1.        The project includes the four principal general cargo ports in the
country, two on the Pacific Coast and two on the Gulf Coast. A brief
description of the four ports follows:
2.        (a)  Guaymas (see Map IBRD 20359).  The commercial port includes
Berths 1, 2 and 5 along the east wharves with a total length of 526 a and
Berths 3 and 4 along the south wharves with a total length of 352 a. Berths
3 and 4 have a water depth of 11 m, 2 has 10 m, and 1 and 5 have 8 m but this
is being deepened to 11 m. Immediately west of the south wharves is a berth
for loading cement in bulk. North of the east wharves is the terminal for
the ferries to Baja California, and to the east of this is the PEMEX pier. A
64,000 ton capacity grain silo is located adjacent to the south wharves.
This is owned by Almacenes Nacionales de Deposito (ANDSA). This was
initially a grain export terminal but now grains are being imported through
Guaymas, with the silo being used as a storage depot for locally produced
wheat and for cabotage shipments of the wheat. Although the terminal has
reversible belts, it is not adequately equipped for discharging grains from
ships. An enclosed transit shed with an area of 4,800 m2 is located adjacent
to Berth 2 and an open sided shed of 6,390 m2 is located in the open storage
area north of the silos. Dredging adjacent to the wharves and rehabilitation
of the wharf structures was done in early 1987.
3.        (b)  Manzanillo (see Map IBRD 20360).  The commercial port
currently occupies both the outer harbor and the newly constructed inner
harbor, San Pedrito. The outer harbor contains a two berth finger pier for
PEMX, and the two berth, Muelle Fiscal, a finger pier used for general cargo
and dry bulk cargoes. Until 1983, the Muelle Fiscal with a total berth
length of 512 m and a water depth of 11 m was used for all dry cargoes
including imports of bulk grain and fertilizers. The bulk cargoes were
handled by direct discharge to railway wagons. The work at each of the
hatches was limited to the performance of the slowest hatch. When a string
of wagons was loaded, it was pulled off the pier and across the principal
streets of the city. This is very disruptive to local pedestrian and
vehicular traffic. The new wharves in San Pedrito are labelled A, B, and C.
They all have a water depth of 11 n. Wharf A has a total length of 450 a, B
is 600 m long and 400 m of the planned 680 m of wharf C have been completed.
In addition there are berths for Naval vessels, fishing vessels, tourist
launches and pleasure boats.
4.        (c)  Tampico/Altamira (see Map IBRD 20361).  The combined port of
Tampico/Altamira includes the Port of Tampico on the Rio Panuco and the
recently constructed coastal port of Altamira which has been constructed by
dredging an entrance into a coastal lagoon, using the dredged material to
raise the level of the surrounding land.  The commercial port of Tampico is
situated along the left bank (north side) of the river at a distance of about
12 km from the river mouth.  The combined ports contain more than 5 km of
berthing length, only 250 a of which are located at Altamira. Public wharves



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
account for 74X of the berthing space with the balance being private. The
Port of Altamira is about 30 km north of Tampico. The principal portion of
the public wharves at Tampico include 9 berths at the Zona Franca which are
used for break-bulk, unitized and containerized general cargo and bulk grain
Imports, and 4 berths at the Metals and Minerals Terminal, which are used
primarily for import and export of bulk minerals and export of semi-refined
and refined metals. These berths have from 10 to 11 m water depth
alongside. The 250 m wharf at Altamira has 12 m water depth and is presently
used for cabotage shipments of sorgo, containerized general cargo and
discharge of heavy-lift items and large process equipment. A rail mounted
container crane has recently been erected at this berth. The Rio Panuco
drains a very large tributary area. The runoff is silt laden and maintenance
dredging is a serious problem at Tampico with quantities ranging from 3 to 4
million m3 per year. Maintenance dredging at Altamira is negligible.
5.        (d)  Veracruz (see Map IBRD 20362).  The principal characteristics
of this port are 3,300 m of wharves with water depths ranging from 9 to 11 m,
500 m of wharf with water depths of 6 to 8 m, 26.8 ha of open storage area,
7.8 ha of enclosed storage and 0.7 ha of covered storage. The port has a
grain terminal with a 25,000 ton capacity silo, a container terminal with a
rail mounted container crane, and a bulk liquids terminal in the northern
corner of the harbor. Unfortunately these three terminals share a single 500
a long wharf. This is a very unsatisfactory arrangement. Break-bulk,
unitized and containerized general cargo, bulk sugar and bulk cement clinker
exports and bulk grain imports are handled at finger piers along the
southwesterly side of the harbor. A shipyard and a PEMEX oil terminal occupy
the eastern corner of the harbor. Maintenance dredging at this port is
relatively minor.



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
r-age =
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Action Plans for Port Operators
1.        The following outlines several key elements of the Action Plans
proposed for each of the four ports. The targets below should be
incorporated Into the concession agreements as an integral pait of such
program-contracts:
A. Finances
2.        Annual operating budgets to be prepared during the last trimester
of each year based on revised traffic forecast for the coming year. Costs 1Y
and tariffs to be budgeted so as to achieve the following maximum operatlng
and working ratios:
1988            1989            1990            1991
W     0         W     0         W     0 O         W     O
SEPOG:     0.87  1.18       0.85  1.16      0.91  1.25        0.93  1.27
SEPOM:     0.93  1.19       1.00  1.32      0.95  1.25        0.92  1.21
SPTA       0.77  1.06       0.81  1.14      0.82  1.17        0.85  1.18
SERPOVER:  0.89  1.15       0.86  1.10      0.95  1.22        1.00  1.35
1/ Costs should include capitp-l costs of owned fixed assets, regularly
revalued in accordance with current Mexican accounting principles for
inflation adjustments.
Definitions:
Working Ratio:    All working expenses, i.e., excluding
depreciation, divided by revenues
Operating Ratio:  All operating expenses, ie., including
depreciation, divided by revenues



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
B. Productivity Targets
3.          The following targets should be achieved upon completion of related
investments:
1985     1988    1990    1992    Target 27
Port         Cargo Type           Actual   Target  Target  Target    Unit
Guaymas      Containers            n/a        10      20       20    Moves/br
Grain
Semi-mechanized
Mechanized            260      260     375       375     Tons/hr
Manzanillo   Grain
Semi-mechanized       177      177     200       250     Tons/hr
Veracruz     Containers 3/         9           9      15       20    Moves/hr
Grain 4/                               300       300     Tons/hr
Altamira     Containers
Using ship's gear:   15         15      20        20    Moves/hr
Using container
shore cranes         n.a         n.a    25        25    Moves/hr
SEDRA         Dredges
Effective Dredging
Time per Dredger
in Oaration          2200    3600    5000      5000    Hours/Yr
C. Port Equipment  (a) Rehabilitated    0            4      45        86  Percentage
Equipment                                         of Program
Implemented
75       75  Availabi-
lity of Re-
habilitated
Equipment (Z)
(b) Equipment with excessive down-time
will be retired from the port inventory
according to a planned retirement program
to be completed during 1988.
D. Work Study
4.        By December 31, 1989, SCT will caplete in each of the four project ports,
a work-study of cargo-handling operations with a view to reducing unit costs of
handling principal categories of cargo.
2/ Per gross hatch hour
3/ Over container berth
4/ Over grain berth



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1.
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Studies Program
A. Assistance to SEDRA
1.        Background.  SEDRA was estab'ished in November 1985, and inherited
from DRAGADO a poorly maintained dredging fleet, and an organization that was
technically rather than managerially oriented. Although SEDRA has ambitions
to expand its dredging capability to not only do all maintenance dredging
required but also some capital dredging, it is unclear that it either has the
capability to do so or that it is necessarily in the best interests of the
Mexican economy for SEDRA's capacity to be swiftly and massively expanded.
2.        Objectives.  The objectives of the three sets of studies and
technical assistance briefly described below would be to determine the most
economical long-term level of SEDRA maintenance dredging capacity, and assist
SEDRA in improving its operational capability to meet this demand.
3.        Scope.  (i) National Dredging Study.  The study would determine the
economically optimal level of maintenance dredging in Mexican ports, and the
operational and financial implications of this for SEDRA. Draft Terms of
Reference are in the Project File.
(ii) Relocation of Port Activities from Rio Panuco to Altamira.
This study would complement the National Dreding Study and would explore In
detail the economic costs and benefits of relocation to Altamira of port
industries which require substantial maintenance dredging of the Rio Panuco.
It would also assess the financial measures necessary to achieve relocation
should this be found economically viable. Draft Terms of Reference are in
the Project File.
(iii) SEDRA Personnel Management Procedures and Inventory Control.
As a new organization, SEDRA has not yet developed satisfactory methods of
personnel management, such as job descriptions and grading, pay scales, and
career programs on the one hand nor operational procedures on the other.
Inventories and their control are another item for which technical
assistance will be required. Descriptions of these weaknesses are given in
Annex 2, and the studies would be designed to establish a means of overcoming
them and timetables for implementation.
4.        Timing and Cost.  The National Dredging Study should be comenced
by June 30, 1988 and completed by March 31, 1989.  It will require about 120



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
man-months. A mixture of local and expatriate expertise will be required and
the cost is estimated at about US$800,000. The Rio Panuco relocation study
should be undertaken with some inputs from the dredging study and should
commence by September 30, 1988 and be completed by March 31, 1989. About 24
man-months will be required, mainly local, and the cost is estimated at
US$100,000. Establishment of personnel procedures should be commenced as
soon as possible, no later that March 31, 1988 and should be completed by
September 30, 1988. It will require about 20 man-months. A mixture of local
and expatriate expertise, mainly local, will be required and the cost is
estimated at about US$80,000.
B. Assistance to FIDEMAP/ESPs
Establishment of Procedure for the Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Maintenance of Port Equipment.
5.        Background.  FIDEMAP and CNCP have undertaken a country-wide survey
of the state of port equipment, with a view to establishing a centrally
controlled program for scrapping, rehabilitation and acquisition. It is also
envisaged that ESPs will in due course take over responsibility for the port
specific programs of scrapping, rehabilitation and acquisition. At present
while FIDEMAP has substantial engineering expertise, either in-house or
readily available from outside, they lack the capability to undertake the
economic and financial analyses necessary for future programs, and have not
yet established a fully satisfactory system for ensuring adequate equipment
maintenance.
6.        Objectives.  The basic objectives will be (i) to improve the
standards of maintenance of port equipment which, for various reasons,
including unsystematic inspection procedures, are generally low; (1i) ensure
that new equipment is not substituted for existing without adequate analysis
not only of engineering but economic and financial implications; and (iii)
enable an orderly and timely transfer of responsibilities for port equipment
from FIDEMAP to ESPe.
7.        Scope.  The consultants would (i) aesist FIDEMAP in the first
instance, and the ESPs as appropriate, in establishing clear procedures for
equipment maintenance. In particular, the consultants would review and
recommend on periodic review of the physical conditions of equipment, the
means of restoring equipment to service (unit exchange, in-house repair,
contract repair) and procedures for scrapping (terms of reference and
frequency of review by "boarding" committees, etc.); and (il) review the
decision making processes that presently are employed for the replacement of
equipment, and assess whether adequate economic and financial analysis is
undertaken. In particular the consultants should determine whether changes
in equipment specifications (changes in lifting capacity, operating
specifications, etc.) are made after analysis of the financial implications



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
for FIDEMAP/ESPs and, at a more general level the economic implications
through the necessary budgetary and foreign exchange allocations; and
(iii) the consultants should also review the implications of their findings
on the above subjects for the transfer of ownership of equipment from FIDEMAP
to the ESPs or vice versa.
8.        Timing and Cost.  The study should start by March 31, 1988 and be
completed by September 30, 1988. It wAll require about 30 man-months. The
required expertise can be largely provided locally and the estimated cost is
US$120, 000.
C. Assistance to SERPOVER and SPTA
9.        Background.  SERPOVER and SPTA management accounting procedures are
inadequate to establish with reasonable accuracy the financial status of
these organizations, their budgets and costs. Furthermore the contractual
arrangements for the provision of port services between these organizations
and other parties are under review, and any changes will affect both the
existing and target financial indicators.
10.       Objectives.  The ultimate objective is to introduce management
accounting systems such that the financial responsibilities and operational
results of SERPOVER and SPTA are clearly established in a manner which permit
setting realistic financial targets and monitoring their attainment.
II.       Scope.  The consultants should (i) review the existing financial
information and systems of SERPOVER and SPTA, and as necessary, other
organizations concerned with operations of the ports of Veracruz and Tampico-
Altamira; (ii) relate the results of such reviews to other indicators of port
activity (e.g., port employment, tonnage handled, etc.) to assess the degree
of consistency of the accounts; (iii) re-examine accounting and other data
systems where significant discrepancies exist; (iv) introduce consolidated
and internally consistent systems of accounting, budgeting and costing; and
(v) produce financial targets for the relevant organizations, taking into
consideration inter alia forecast traffic, proposed investments, the effect
of such investments and available information on the future level of labor
costs. Proposed outline Terms of Reference are in Annex 9, Appendix l.
12.       Timing and Cost.  The study should commence by June 30, 1988 and be
completed by about December 31, 1988. It will require about 50 man-months.
This will be largely locally provided and the total cost is estimated as
US$200,000.



- 69 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
Summary
Total
Implementation        Costs
Description                    Period          (US$'000)
National Dredging             6/88-3/89           800
Rio Panuco Relocation Study   9/88-3/89           100
Personnel Procedures          6/88-9/89            80
Equipment Procedures          3/88-9/88           120
Accounting Procedures        7/88-12/88           200
Project Supervision          Implementation
Period               300
Contingencies                 -                   332
Total                                            1932



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Methology for Economic Evaluation of Port Projects
1.        SCT commissioned consultants to prepare a detailed methodology for
the economic evaluation of port projects (Annex 12, para. 2). This was
completed in August 1986, reviewed by the Bank, and found generally
acceptable. Below is given a synopsis of the general principles to be
followed.
2.        The methodology distinguishes between different types of
investment, in particular: maintenance, rehabilitation, enlargement and
completely new projects. These distinctions are used to indicate the
relative importance of different forms of benefit from the project, within
the spectrum noted below.
3.        Maintenance projects.  The benefits from maintenance projects are
generally expressed in terms of reductions in the future streams of capital
investment in new equipment or infrastructure resulting from increased or
more effective streams of expenditure on maintenance. The maintenance
streams themselves can take varying forms, broadly ranging between the
concept of periodic replacement of inputs (lubricants, spare parts) to
physical examination of larger units and their repair/replacement only when
certain physical benchmarks are exceeded.
4.        Rehabilitation Projects.  These are generally applicable when an
asset's state of repair has deteriorated to the extent that it is out of
service for a significant period, and the alternatives ere substantial
expenditure on replacement/repair of existing units or complete replacement
of the asset. Given that the expected life of a new asset is almost
Invariably greater than that of one rehabilitated, the rate of interest
assumed plays an Important role in these calculations.
5.        Enlargement projects differ from the above in that an expansion of
activity is envisaged. This requires the explicit consideration of the
extent to which a change in the scale of activity will change the type of
activity. A common example is the expansion in volume of a traffic to the
level that specialized bulk handling facilities become appropriate. Failure
to recognize that such developments can render existing facilities
economically (and financially) obsolete makes this probably the most
important form of port investment, and the difficulty in forecasting
technological progress makes it one of the most difficult to accurately
analyze.
6.        New Developments.  These require careful definition.  They may be
enlargement projects under another name, as when bulk facilities are
constructed where simple methods of discharge existed previously. At the
other extreme, they can comprise port developments at virgin sites. Unless



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
associated with an equally 'new' traffic (e.g. a new automobile plant or
steel mill) they involve consideration of the reasons why a customer will
transfer from another port, and in the analysis require consideration not
only of the costs and benefits of the new development per se, but of the
effect on existing ports. Such developments normally require to be assessed
in the light of an overall national port development plan If they are not to
run the risk of resulting in duplication and over-capacity. For completely
new facilities, so remote or specialized that the effect on existing
installations is negligible, a careful study of the market for the principle
traffic is an essential pre-requisite.
7.        The costs of the various types of investments are net costs.  Net
in two senses, first that if, e.g, a maintenance investment enables avoidance
of another smaller investment required to prevent further performance
deterioration from the existing (base) level then either the investment cost
used In calculations should be the difference between the two investment
levels, or the future decline in performance without the minimal investment
should be considered in benefit calculation. The costs are net also in the
sense of net of taxes and subsidies. This latter set of exclusions
inevitably is a rather crude calculation if there are a whole spectrum of
inputs to the investment.
8.        Finally, the conditions under which shadow pricing of inputs might
be applicable should also be noted. Prominent among these would be strict
control and therefore non-free market determination of the exchange rate for
the domestic currency. In Mexico there is, effectively, a freely convertible
currency and therefore shadow pricing based upon exchange rate considera-
tions does not apply.
9.        A copy of the consultant's study is available in the project file.
March 1987



-72 -                              ANX 9
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A. General
1.        The proposed project would consist of: (a) rehabilitation of
facilities at four deepwater commercial public ports, namely, Guaymas and
Manzanillo on the Pacific Coast, end the dual port complex of Tampico-
Altamira and Veracruz on the Gulf Coast; (b) specialized cargo handling
equipment, primarily for containers at all the ports and grain handling
equipment for all the ports except Tampico Altamirs; and a tugboat for
Tampico-Altamira; (c) rehabilitation of cargo handling equipment at the four
ports; (d) rehabilitation of the Government's dredging fleet Including
replenishment of spare parts and procurement of new survey and measuring
systems, and auxiliary craft; and (e) professional services for: (i)
technical assistance to help introduce appropriate port tariffs and dues; and
(II) technical assistance for a National Dredging Study and other studies to
assist SEDRA to become more efficient and develop a higher standard of
equipment maintenance and environmental protection.
B. Civil Works
(i) At Guaymas
2.        Container Yard:  This yard is immediately behind the new extension
of the East Wharves 'wich serves as the new container berth. A control
building would be constructed and lighting installed in the yard to Improve
overall control and operation and permit safer nighttime operation. Railway
Tracks: The railway tracks within the port would be rehabilitated to permit
faster, safer movement of railway cars. Utilities Systems: The water and
electrical system. have badly deteriorated and would be rehabilitated.
Transit Shed Relocation: The transit shed behind Berth 2 causes interference
with cargo handling at the berth and would be relocated to the open storage
a.ea north of the grain silos.  Open Storage Area:  The pavement In the open
storage area is in poor condition and the area does not drain properly. The
project includes levelling and paving of the area to provide for proper
drainage and permit safer vehicular movement and cargo storage, and striping
for better cargo and traffic control.
(ii) At Manzanillo
3.        Grain Storage:  There Is presently no grain storage installation at
the port. All grain handling is done by direct discharge from ship to
railway cars using grabs operated by ship's gear and hoppers. The project
would provide for pneumatic dischargers and two 5,000 ton capacity
hemispherical storage structures to provide a buffer for grain discharge from
vessels at the new wharves in San Pedrito. Utilities Svstems: The utilities
systems in the port are badly deteriorated. The project would include
rehabilitation of the potable and fire water systems and the electrical
system. Striping: The open storage area would be striped to permit better
cargo and traffic control.



-73 -                          ANNEX 9
Page2
(iii) At Tampico
4.        Groins:  The groins adjacent to the channel and along the beach to
the south of the harbor entrance have deteriorated. The project includes the
rehabilitation of these groins to avoid progressive deterioration and permit
them to serve their function.  Lighthouse and Beacons:  The lighthouse and
beacons have fallen into a state of disrepair. They are necessary for safe
nighttime navigation and would be rehabilitated under the project to increase
safety and reduce ship turnaround time. General Cargo Berth and Metals and
Minerals Berths: The Transit shed and warehouse at the General Cargo Berth
have deteriorated and been damaged by vehicles and cargo handling. The
project would provide for repairs to these buildings to avoid progressive
deterioration and weather damage to cargoes stored in the sheds. Mooring
fittings and fenders have been damaged. This permits increased damage to the
wharf face and to vessels berthing at these wharves. The lack of adequate
mooring fittings results in awkward and unsafe mooring of vessels. The
project would provide for rehabilitation and replacement of mooring fittings
and fenders. Paving and drainage: The pavement has deteriorated and there
has been some subsidence and damage to the drainage system adjacent to the
wharves. The project would provide for rectification of these conditions.
Metals and Minerals connection: These two wharves were built and operated
independently. They are n* being operated as a unit but are physically
separated. The project would provide for construction of a 20 m connection
between the two wharves. This would permit easier vehicular access and more
flexibility in operation of the terminal. Wharf deck: The deck of the
Metals and Minerals wharves is deteriorated and damaged due to weathering and
traffic of heavy vehicles. The project would provide for repair of the deck.
Utilities systems at both the Muelle Fiscal and Metals and Minerals Terminals
have badly deteriorated. The project would provide for rehabilitation of the
electrical and water systems. Railway tracks serving the Metals and Minerals
terminal carry heavy traffic and are subject to the loading of railway cranes
used for discharging the cars. The project would include the rehabilitation
of these tracks. Port access: The roadway access to the port is very
heavily travelled and has been a serious problem for several years. The.
project would include rehabilitation of 3.5 km of the Calsada Blanca access.
(iv) At Altamira
5.        Port Access:  There is a limited two lane road access to the
container terminal but the railway access was terminated about 9.5 km from
the terminal. The project would upgrade and improve 5 km of the roadway
access and would construct 12.5 km of railway track to the container terminal
and the proposed bulk fertilizer terminal for YERTIMEX (a separate possibly
Bank financed project. A separate spur is included in the FERTINEX
project). Container wharf extension: The present 250 m long wharf at
Altamira is used by fully cellular container vessels, cabotage vessels
loading sorghum and for discharge of heavy lifts and large process units.
The project would provide a 250 m extension to this wharf to permit the
relocation of container movements from Tampico. Associated with the wharf
construction would be extension of the dredged basin to permit turning the
ships in front of the new berth. An equipment maintenance shop would be
constructed to permit maintenance for the container and break-bulk cargo
handling equipment at Altamira. This would avoid the need for a 60 km
roundtrip to Tampico for servicing and repairs. A control building would be
constructed at the container terminal to permit better control of traffic and
container movements. A loading platform would be added to the existing



- 74 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
transit shed at the container terminal to permit it to better serve its
function as a container freight station.
(v) At Veracruz
6.        Container yard access:  The existing container berth is on a wharf
shared with bulk grain ships, liquid bulk carriers and bulk cement vessels.
The backup area for the container berth is inadequate therefore a much larger
area was constructed on the western side of the railway tracks serving the
grain terminal and the pipelines from the PEMEX pier. The vehicular access
to this larger area is circuitous due to the pipelines having been installed
above grade. The project would include the lowering of 20 m of these
pipelines into a trench and construction of a bridge across this trench and a
grade crossing of the railway tracks. This would permit much easier access
to this container yard from the container berth and from the port gate.
Expansion of container yard would be provided toward the south. This would
provide needed additional storage capacity for containers and would be in
keeping with the mase.  development plan of Veracruz which provides for
relocating the conta..1.r berth to the south side of the harbor.
C. Equipment
7.        Equipment requirements are based upon:  (a) inventories and surveys
carried out by four firms of consultants (Annex 5), and (b) operational
analyses carried out by FIDEMAP utilizing the recommendations resulting from
the equipment inventory and condition survey and short range traffic
forecasts. The project would finance rehabilitation of existing equipment,
replenishment of spare parts inventory and acquisition of new specialized
equipment for container and grain handling, and trackmobiles.
(i) At Guaymas
8.        A trackmobile would be procured for shifting strings of railway
cars within the port. Guaymas has a grain terminal which was constructed for
export.  The traffic has since reversed but the equipment for discharging the
grain is difficult to handle. Grains are presently being discharged using
grabs and ship's gear. The project would provide for 8 new l00 ton per hour
suction dischargers and a 1,000 ton per hour conveyor. A transtainer and 4
container chassis would be procured for use in the container yard. Other
cargo bindling equipment would be rehabilitated and/or replaced as justified
during the course of the project.
(ii) At Manzanillo
9.        Tractors and trailers and 2,100-ton per hour suction dischargers
would be procured for use in handling bulk grain discharge and temporary
storage in the hemispherical storage structures. A container handling
toplifter would be procured for use in the container yard. Existing break-
bulk general cargo handling equipment would be rehabilitated and/or replaced
as justified during the course of the project.



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4
(iii) At Tampico
10.       Existing cargo handling equipment would be rehabilitated and/or
replaced as justified during the course of the project. A 3,500 hp tugboat
would be procured to assist in vessel navigation and berthing/deberthing both
at Tampico and Altamira. This is to replace underpowered privately owned
tugboats.
(iv) At Altamira
11.       The present container terminal at Altamira has one container
handling crane which was relocated from another Mexican port. The project
would provide a second container handling crane to supplement the existing
crane. Two transtainers, a mobile crane, 4 chassis, 3 wheeled loaders and 6
forklift trucks would be procured under the project.
(v) At Veracruz
12.       In addition to justified rehabilitation of existing cargo handling
equipment, the project would provide for procurement of a new container
handling crane, 2 transtainers, 6 yard tractors, 15 chassis and 4 forklift
tucks. The container handling crane would be erected on the existing
container berth. It is intended that the two container cranes would be
relocated If, in the longer term, new container berthe were constructed in
the south west portion of the harbour now used for cabotage movements. In
the meantime mooring dolphins would be provided to effectively extend the
container berth by 30 m. Faster grain discharge would be effected by
provision of an additional grain discharger and conveyor system.
(vi)  SEDRA Dredging Plant
13.       The project includes rehabilitation of dredges, replenishment of
spare parts stocks, procurement of small tugboats, water and fuel barges,
survey and measurement systems and auxiliary craft. Also included are a
National Dredging Study and studies of the SEDRA fleet and organization and a
program for implementation of the recommendations (Annex 2).



- 76 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REBABILfleATION PROJECT
Action Program for Project Execution
Completion
of Activity
A. Civil Works
1. Prepare specifications and other tender documents in
accordance with criteria and standards agreed with the
Bank. Ai required, submit documents lncluding draft
contracts to the Bank for review, comments and
approval.                                                    September 1988
2. Advertise and lnitiate bidding process for tender or
group of tenders for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) or Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), as
appropriate, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement. Receive and evaluate bids and, as
appropriate, send copies of evaluation report to the
Bank for its review and statement of no objection.           December 1988
3. Where applicable, forward copies of the signed contract
and all other relevant contract documentation to the
Bank for its records.                                        March 1989
4. Submit quarterly and other reports to the Bank, in
accordance with agreed arrangements.                         September 1988
B. Acquisition and Rehabilitation of Equipment 1/
5. Update equipment inventory and requirements and
prepare and/or update the rolling four-year
time-bound programs and the detailed programs for the
current and coming years for scrapping of overage or
unusable equipment, acquisition of new equipment and
spare parts, and rehabilitation and/or repair of
existing sidelined equipment, taking available
budgetary resources into account.                            September 19882/
6.  Obtain approval from Bank.                                   December 1988
1/ Activities shown are on an annual cycle, with dates shown here only for
the first twelve months. Dates and timing for subsequent twelve month
periods will be similar.
/ Final reports have been received for each of the four ports.



77 -            ~~ANNEX 10
Page 2
Completion
of Activity
7.  Prepare specifications and other tender documents in              I
accordance with criteria and standards agreed with the
Bank, and submit to Bank for review, comments and
approval.                                                    September 1988
8. Advertise and initiate bidding process for tender or
group of tenders for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement, for those project components for which
ICB is to be used (new equipment and spare parts).
For rehabilitation or repair of existing equipment,
carry out the procurement process in the manner and
under the conditions agreed with the Bank. Where
applicable, receive and evaluate bids, make awards and
sign contracts in the manner agreed with the Bank.           December 1988
9. Where applicable, forward copies of the signed contract
and all other relevant contract documentation to the
Bank for its records. Submit quarterly and other
reports to the Bank, in accordance with the agreed
arrangements.                                                September 1988
C. Dredge Rehabilitation
10. Prepare specifications and other tender documents in
accordance with criteria and standards agreed with the
Bank. As required, submit documents including draft
contracts to the Bank for review, comments and
approval.                                                    October 1988
11. Advertise and initiate bidding process for tender or
group of tenders for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) or Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), as
appropriate, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement. Receive and evaluate bids and, as
appropriate, send copies of evaluation report to the
Bank for its review and statement of no objection.           January 1989
12. Make awards, sign contracts and, where applicable,
forward copies of the signed contracts and all other
relevant documentation to the Bank for Its records.          April 1, 1989
13. Prepare final terms of reference for the studies to be
financed under this project and submit to the Bank for
review and approval.                                         September 1988



- 78 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3
14. Prepare short list and obtain Bank's concurrence,        December 1988 for
select consultants, 3/ submit draft contracts to the     Management and
Bank for review and approval, and appont and sign         Dredging
contracts after receiving Bank concurrence. Provide       Studies; March
copy of signed contract to the Bank for record            1989 for Rio
purposea.                                                 Panuco Study.
15. Proceed with studies, submitting reports to              March 1989 for
the Bank in accordance with agreed arrangements.         Management Study
June 1989 for Rio
Panuco
Environmental
Dredging Studies.
D. Assistance to SERPOVER and SPTA
16. As 13. before.
December 1988
17. As 14. above.
March 1989
18. As 15. above.
September 1989
/ Appointment of consultants is preceded by a standard series of steps, as
follows:
Activity                                            Days
1. Invite and receive proposals                     45
2. Evaluate proposals                                30
3. Obtain Bank concurrence                           30
4. Notify, invite and negotiate with consultants    15
5. Prepare draft final contract                      15
6. Obtain Bank approval                              30
7. Sign contract and issue notice to proceed         15
8. Consultant's mobilization                         15
Total Elapsed Time                        195 days
412



- 79 -
ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
ITEM
Guaymas
Civil Works
Equipment Rehabilitation     -
Procurement
Manzanillo
Civil Works
Equipment Rehabilitation/
Procurement
Tampico/Altamira
Civil Works
Equipment Rehabilitation/
Procurement
Veracruz
Civil works
Equipment Rehabilitation/
Procurement
Dredges
Hopper Dredge Rehab.                -
Pipeline Dredge Rehab.                     -
Equipment and Spare Parts
Procurement
Project Supervision
Supervision
Studies
Notes:
1) Civil Works will be executed by SCT through DGOM
2) Ports Equipment procurement will be done by each port, ESPS for
Manzanillo-Guaymas, SPTA for Tampico and by SCT for Veracrus.
3) SEDRA - Dredges and related equipment wlll be procured by SEDRA.



- 80 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Execution and Monitoring
1.        Execution of the project would be the responsibility of the SCT
Project Coordinator who would carry out his responsibilities through the
individual ESPs, CNCP, and SEDRA, each of which would have an action and
performance plan agreed with the Bank, following the steps and time frame in
the agreed Action Plan (Annexes 6 and 10), and complying with the physical
targets for the project and the program given in the paragraphs below. These
programs and their execution would be reviewed annually with the Bank.
Particular attention will be paid to the compliance with annual targets for
routine and periodic maintenance, equipment availability, and dredge
production that are to be expected with time.
2.        SEDRA will submit to the Bank no later than November 1989 the
findings and recommendations of the National Dredging Study, the SEDRA
Management and Organizational Study, a report on the implementation of the
recently introduced new manning schedule, and a report on dredge performance
including average daily production for the individual dredges. The
produetion should be confirmed by the pre- and post-dredging surveys made
with the computerized survey systems to be acquired under the project.
3.        The individual agencies wvould prepare, advertise, tender, and award
contracts, subject to review by the Bank. The time allowed for preparation
of bids would be at least 60 days for contracts having an estimated value of
US$5.0 million enuivalent, or more and not less than 45 days for smaller
contracts for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and not less than 30
days for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). In addition, the following
procedures would be followed:
a. Foreign contractors would not be required to register (prequalify),
prior to being permitted to acquire the documents needed to prepare
a bid, but instead would be allowed to register on a post facto
basis after an award determination is made. Documents would be
available for procurement through the business day prior to the day
of receipt of bids. In keeping with SCT's usual practice, the
qualifications of the winning bidder will be carefully reviewed and
checked to ensure that it is capable of performing the work;
b. Advertisements in local newspapers of wide circulation would be
placed for a minimum of three days, announcing bid opportunities,
and the minimum bid preparation time stipulated above shall be
allowed. Field visits would be at the bidder's discretion;
c. Arrangements would be made to allocate sufficient funds to complete
the entire contract, even if the contract period exceeds one year.
SCr would seek appropriate budgetary authority from SPP to
accomplish this purpose. If the contract period exceeds one year,



- 81 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
appropriate and satisfactory arrangements would be specified in the
contract to provide a method for calculating equitable price
adjustments to account for inflation; and
d. The contract award would be made to the lowest evaluated bidder,
except in the most unusual of circumstances. During the course of
post-qualification, the low bidder would not be disqualified unless
very specific grounds are found for such action; the bidder is
provided an opportunity to explain or refute the cause(s) for such
action; and the Bank's concurrence is received.
4.        Copies of each contract, together with the tender evaluation report
giving the award decision and its rationale, would be provided to the Bank by
SCT. Vor civil works contracts having a value of less than US$200,000
equivalent, and contracts for goods having a value of less than US$50,000
equivalent for which disbursements are made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure, the contracts would not be sent to the Bank for review, but
instead would be kept on file by SCT in the office of the Project
Coordinator, for inspection and review by Bank staff during supervision
missions. In cases where reviews would show that agreed tender or award
procedures had not been followed, the Bank would have the right to reject the
specific contract and to cancel the corresponding amount from the Loan.
5.        In order to permit satisfactory close monitoring and supervision of
project execution and progress by SCT and the Bank, comprehensive quarterly
reports covering all aspects of the project would be prepared by the Project
Coordinator and submitted to the Bank. These quarterly reports would provide
Information on the compliance with agreed project implementation targets.
In addition, detailed cost breakdowns in US$ equivalents would be provided
for costs incurred in implementing the project up to that point, for
estimates of additional costs likely to be incurred in future, along with the
reasons and/or justifications therefor and an estimate of the anticipated
total costs at the time of project completion. The disbursement schedule
also would be reviewed, and recommendations made for modifications of the
programs and, as needed, of the reporting requirements.
6.        The reports would contain a narrative summary relating to each of
the project's components, as well as to the project as a whole, providing a
short resume of the project's history up to the date of the report, which
would give in detail the events of the previous quarter. The report would
also cover problems encountered in implementing each of the project's
components for the quarter under review, solutions proposed, and results
anticipated. The narrative section would provide advance information, to the
extent it is available, on problems likely to be encountered during the
ensuing months, together with actions to be taken to mitigate or avoid the
anticipated difficulties.
7.        Data (possibly in chart form) will be presented, giving the
absolute quantities and percentage completion of each project component (in
terms of financial expenditure, physical accomplishment, and elapsed time,
separately), along with an estimate of the anticipated time of completion of
each project component, and of the overall project, related to the periods
originally estimated.



- 82 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3
Targets
8.        As a means of providing easily monitored parameters, to aid in
determining whether project progress is satisfactory, the Government and the
Bank will reach agreement during negotiations on a series of targets to be
met, in order to help the expeditious and satisfactory execution of the
Project and of SCT's program for improvement of ports infrastructure and
equipment maintenance, and maintenance and production of SEDRA's dredges.
Included in its agreed program would be a commitment by the Government to
simplify and expedite the procedures for scrapping of obsolete equipment.
9.        Records of accomplishments compared to the agreed goals would be
kept by the Project Coordinator, and annual reports, showing the comparison
would be provided to the Bank at the time of the annual consultations on
project progress. These reports would also provide reasons for any
shortfalls experienced and identify difficulties and problems preventing
Improved performance, together with proposed and intended actions to be taken
to remove obstacles and increase accomplishments. An updated detailed Action
Executing Program (Annex 12) will be presented by the Project Coordinator at
the time of the annual consultation, for project execution during the coming
year, which will address any difficulties or problems encountered or
anticipated in order to increase or maintain the rate of project progress.
Operational Targets
10.       In addition to the targets above, the Government and the Bank would
reach agreement during negotiations on a set of project monitoring
Performance Indicators, which would provide data and information on the
status and quality of the ESPs and SEDRAs maintenance operations, providing
benchmarks against which improvement in equipment maintenance operations and
capability can be measured. A list of these monitoring indicators is given
In the table below:
Performance Indicators
Present
Item                                Unit             Level      Standard
Percent of Permanently Sidelined
Equipment Fleet Scrapped per Year   Z                      5           25
Availability of Equipment Fleet        X (1/)               50           80
Utilization of Available Fleet         % (2/)               50           70
1/  Taking the 100% level as 220 working days per year, for a total of 1320
working hours available.  Present availability is about 50%.
2/ Using a total of six hours availability per working day. Present
utilization is about 60%.



- 83 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4
II.       At the time of the annual consultative meeting on project progress,
the Project Coordinator would provide the Bank with a set of comparative
data, showing the actual values of the monitoring indicators as they relate
to the year just past, compared to the standard values listed, giving reasons
for any shortfalls or differences, together with an Action Plan listing
specific actions which would be taken to rectify any discrepancy.
12.       During these meetings, the Government and the Bank would discuss
and reach pertinent agreements on the following, among other things:
- Financial summary showing the status of implementation of
the project;
-   Compliance with agreed targets for works and procurement
financed under the Loan;
-   Economic evaluation of works to be included in the annual
program for the coming year;
-   Use and deployment of consulting services for training and
other purposes;
-   Review of audit reports, data, and documents kept on file by
the Project Coordinator, and consolidation of disbursements
against actual expenditures;
-   Updated targets and objectives of the project;
-   Proposed maintenance budget for the comnig year;
-   Detailed maintenance program for the coming year;
-   Specific maintenance targets for the coming year;
-   Review of the operation of the Special Account and of the
disbursement process, with particular focus on the system using
Statements of Expenditure; and
Proposed disbursement schedule for the balance of the project
period.
March 1987



- 84 -
ANNEX 12
MEXICO
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
1,   Integracion y Evaluacion de Proyectoo para el Cradito de Rehabilltacion
y Modernizacion Portuaria, Felipe Ochoa y Asociados, S.C., Octubre 1986.
2.   Manual Metodologico para el Analisis Beneficio/Costo de Proyectoa del
Sistema Portuario Mexicano, SCT, Agosto 1986.
3.   Proyect6 de Rehabilitacion de la Flota de SEDRA, Felipe Ochoa y
Asociadoa, S.C., Septiembre 1986.
4. Propuesta de Programa de Capacitacion para los Puertos Guaymea, Sonora,
Manzanillo, Colima, Sistema Portuario, Tampico, Tampe., y Veracruz,
Ver., DMSP, Octubre 1986.
5. Programs pars Mejorar la Eficiencia Operativa de los Puertos, DOODP,
Septlembre 1986.
6.   Analisis del Sistema de Ingresos y Egresoo de los Puertos, CNCP, 1984.
7.   Sisteme Estadistico Operacional de Indicadores de Rendimiento, SCT,
DGODP, 1985.
8.   Programa Nactonal de Desarrollo de la Infrastructura Portuaria, SCT,
DGOM, 1985.
9.   Previsiones de Trafico Maritimo, CNCP, 1984.
10. Manzanillo - Analisis Economico y Financiero, SCT, Octubre 1986.
11.  Tampico-Altamira - Analisis Economico y Fianmciero, SCT, Octubre 1986.
12.  Guaymas - Anallsis Economico y Financiero, SCT, Octubre 1986.
13. Veracruz - Analysis Economico y Financiero, SCT, Octubre 1986.
14. Financial Projection Tables of ESP's and Superintendencies, R. Laver,
December, 1986.
15. Terus of Reference - National Dredging Study.
16. Terms of Reference Relocation of Port-Related Industries from Tampico
(Rio Panuco) to Altamira.
17. Terms of Reference Environmental Impact Study.
18. SEDRA Action Plan.
19. M$XICO - Ports Rehabilitation Project - Economic Evaluation
20. MEXICO - Ports Rehabilitation Project - Financial Analysis of Project
Ports, April 1987.



PORT REHABIUTAnON PROJEOT
OrganIMion of Sewadrk$ ow Conmmnkgtlom and Tram9oet MC
De INp' aDfDet
I----L  ,W 'mc:'-u   I
DI                                           _W I    rw<m-  1-to
+-IrI-1    -                                                      - 4-
.  DO    l  4DO@ _bw                  be P           SOb l
4~~~~~~D                           Dv   _  O|eO_| O |
Igu*~~+  ww              |            L110   r,e. DC16          b_   O     
bOb   i   00b   |                    Obtt      DC bb
1                          - 1                 s uV_sOwO
DO                     .
:.-* --
AI                                      g* I
Do*~~~* 
I.. SO bbssi f Gum



a .*sg       -             -
-~ ~~~ - 
a ~G   p*.,-                a .i.a     r-,-          ~
1  *   *.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_________________________5O  JP _________
X~~~~~~~~~Org NOILvflhIV3m                     m
CL 1 L IL r_L [ L r_ L [
g3Jes 4III_Il eIl*_ Iloc[L



M   E     X   I  C   O                                                                                   I_%.   UNJITED   STATESN O         ST AMOFRD TCE
PORT OF GUAYMAS                                                                                            '\,GuOymas
*'               *N    MEXICO   4 ' G|l|f*C c            ol Meyico
aFbd end Pawed                                U                     PACIFIC OCEAN
A            ~~~~~200               MEXICO                    2 00
diVy
L~,j          j                                                                                    '- -I  o ~~
!g~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.    -|G~AA~
S~~~~~~~ _______________________
^ " _ _,eContaiw  Yard _so
k~~~ 111111   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~andoWPamd                                                                 A ;  o
.1~~~~~o
-J~~~~~~Me
METERS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ap-mf



_'io 1101 0
t                *                 _ .r-  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
M      E X I C                                                   3
PORT OF MANZANILLO
MEXICO
i  -20@           cm             j^20c
MonzanhIl            S1EUZ
-07>.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- T .
GUAEMALA
-           o
"PEMU ~ ~      ~      ~     -- -               A~ EaLT 
METERS
Approxiw,ote
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-                                             ;                                               -   27  7_d  ___d 
4  >  < 0 ~~ _ d ~~ w _ d.                                            _             i



At ,0 / / METALS AND MINERALS TERMINAL                                                                              1'00
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
'~MEXICO             Gulf 0f MX.CO.
Wharww to be Cofled Pdf OE 
/              -                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~PAC,FIC OCEAN   
-                  .                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  t    MEX100! 
_,__                     _       ~~~~~~~~~Panuco                   River         ~.                                              -                         BLZ
B                            ' )                 COMMERCIAL PORT
.                       _        ~~~~~~~~~~Pcnuco                 River
a_bV**#__t                                         I            V .   'dI1  
Put~~~~~blo Vu.jo  &                                                      Putur.~~~~~~~~~TAIR  INDUSTRIAL PORT
TAMPICO-                     7<                                                          rJLjr-  M E X I C  O
PORTS OF TAMPICO AND ALTAMIRA
- \ \  /ievb   /                                          .          PROJECTs
Gulf of Ao exico           _ROAD TO BE M VPROVED
>B _                  _      _             _              _            _      _      _            /            -           R     A    RROAD TO BE EXTENDED
0      1     2      3      4      5                           WHARF CONSTRUCTION AND DREDGING             C
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~F- ~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMIETERS 
N --- .-. _                                                                            ,,oximate.



.  .  -*r-\UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
M       E X I C O
PORT OF VERACRUZ                                                                                                 ;
MEXICO
#.mco ~~~-
GUATEMALA
gD~~~~~1 ..  4.. 
h--                                                              v_____
/t~~~~~~ - -
0  1020304050    W,.d110
:t~~~~~~~~~~~ o                                         C
w /                     ~~~~~~~~~~~METERS                                                         , d_ 
_0                             Approxcimot.                                                              4fl. d- --~--  d_'  O~~



IERD 2035il
UNITED   STATES   OF   AMERICA                                                                                M E X I C O
Xa   13 +>                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
'Bt gAJA i  \\w\'>-    Jx-C                                                                                                                            AND PRINCIPLE PORT LOCATIONS
t A1IMORNj,                                '                                                                                                                                                         - )    r~   \ .t   
No~ ~~~I
1 i;; 0  W   (<; Xa  X                                                                                                      2-                   9e UA5 -      r
Ho.rresitio                   CdAc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Project ports
< o A                                                                                H                                                                                          V I I A A #  ,  Major bindutrial and comerciMl polrts
National capita! 
'I>  ".                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~State Capitosk
BAJA                                                                          C CA  NUl A)I                                                                           0   Principal citeseor tew,
+FordatL          *                                                                                                                                    -       Divitled highways
CALI1RNA   N                                                                              LIR~                                                           ------  Salocied Minus roacds
Rollroacdo
Rivers
*    Principal airpwrts
Stale heusndariRs
Internat hioal rwem:s
A                                                   i                       c                               
For detati we IBRI 20361
''A            ')r   /-l\~ Ae!d
FItES O 1o0 Zeo 34 2 G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UCATEALA 
b0    1,,~~~~~ ,,_,,,;-2, - ,,,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     Gadal1=0
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~e.eh nw _R  A~:.S,S 
Se, o boddrb 10 - Pr _1nw0  C    _                                                                                                                                              }/$o  cam
For detail see IBRD 20-360                                                        dtai se IRO2032 
,o  C.                                     CAMPECrE
KILOMETERS 0   )OD    20      300    400                                                                                                       Al ' +                                       'A1
toor                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HONDURAS
APRIL 1987



