Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2946 ME
                  (Ports Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                     PUBLICOS, S.N.C., I.B.D.
                        Dated June 7, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2946 ME
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 7,  1989 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and BANCO NACIONAL DE
OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C., I.B.D. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower  and  the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor)  having  been  satisfied  as  to  the  feasibility  and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such  other obligations as are set forth
in the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Action Plan" means,  individually  or collectively, any
one or  more  of  the  action  plans  covering,  respectively, the
Project Ports and SEDRA, furnished  to  the Bank by letter of even
date herewith;
     (b)  "Action  Plan   Arrangements"   means,  individually  or
collectively, any one or  more  of the contractual arrangements to
be entered into  pursuant  to  Section  3.09  (b) of the Guarantee
Agreement;
     (c)  "CDP" means, individually  or  collectively,  any one or
more of CDP-Guaymas, CDP-Manzanillo and CDP-Veracruz;
     (d)  "CDP-Guaymas" means the  Comite  de Desarrollo Portuario
established by SCT for the Port of Guaymas;
     (e)  "CDP-Manzanillo"   means   the   Comite   de  Desarrollo
Portuario established by SCT for the Port of Manzanillo;
     (f)  "CDP-Veracruz" means the  Comite de Desarrollo Portuario
established by SCT for the Port of Veracruz;
     (g)  "CNCP"   means   the   Guarantor's   Comision   Nacional
Coordinadora de Puertos;
     (h)  "DGPP" means the Direccion General de Puertos of SCT;
     (i)  "DGOM" means the Direccion General de Obras Maritimas of
SCT;
     (j)  "DGP" means the Direccion General de Planeacion of SCT;
     (k)  "ESP" means, individually  or  collectively,  any one or
more of SEPOG, SEPOM, SPTA and SERPOVER;
     (l)  "Guaymas Action Plan" means the Action Plan with respect
to the port of Guaymas;
     (m)  "Manzanillo Action  Plan"  means  the  Action  Plan with
respect to the port of Manzanillo;
     (n)  "peso" means the currency of the Guarantor;
     (o)  "Project Ports" means, individually or collectively, any
one or more of the  Guarantor's  deepwater  ports at the cities of
Guaymas, Manzanillo and  Veracruz  and  the  deepwater port at the
cities of Tampico and Altamira jointly;
     (p)  "SCT" means the Guarantor's Secretaria de Comunicaciones
y Transportes;
     (q)  "SEDRA" means the Guarantor's Servicio de Dragado;
Page  3
     (r)  "SEDRA Action Plan" means  the  Action Plan with respect
to SEDRA;
     (s)  "SEPOG"  means  the  Empresa  de  Servicio  Portuario de
Guaymas;
     (t)  "SEPOM"  means  the  Empresa  de  Servicio  Portuario de
Manzanillo;
     (u)  "SERPOVER" means the  Empresa  de  Servicio Portuario de
Veracruz;
     (v)  "SERPOVER Arrangements"  means  the contractual arrange-
ments to  be  entered  into  between  SERPOVER  and the Guarantor,
acting through SCT, pursuant to  Section 3.07 (a) of the Guarantee
Agreement;
     (w)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (x)  "SPTA" means the  Guarantor's Sistema Portuario Tampico-
Altamira;
     (y)  "Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements"  means,  individually  or
collectively, any one or more of the agreements to be entered into
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement and Section 3.04 (a) of
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (z)  "Subsidiary Loans" means,  individually or collectively,
any one or more of the  loans extended by the Borrower pursuant to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
     (aa) "Tampico-Altamira Action  Plan"  means  the  Action Plan
with respect to the port of Tampico-Altamira; and
     (bb) "Veracruz  Action  Plan"  means  the  Action  Plan  with
respect to the port of Veracruz.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various  currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement  between  the Bank and the Borrower, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank  shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule  2  to  this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
Page  4
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  the  six-month period com-
               mencing on each date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  including  the  Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
            Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
     Section  3.01.  The  Borrower  shall  enter  into contractual
arrangements,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  with  the  Guarantor,
providing, inter alia, for: (i)  the  transfer to the Guarantor of
the proceeds of the  Loan  for  the  carrying  out of the Project;
(ii) the transfer by the  Guarantor  to the Borrower of such funds
as shall be required to  be  lent  by the Borrower to SEPOG, SEPOM
and SPTA for the carrying out by  them of the parts of the Project
assigned to them,  respectively;  and  (iii)  the  transfer by the
Guarantor to the Borrower of  such  funds as the Borrower shall be
required to pay to the Bank  on account of principal, interest and
other charges on  the  Loan.  Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the  Borrower  shall  not  change  or  fail  to enforce any
provision of such contractual arrangements.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and  the Borrower agree that the obli-
gations set forth in  Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to insu-
rance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition)  in  respect  of the
Project shall be carried out  by the Guarantor pursuant to Section
3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement  and  by SEPOM, SEPOG and SPTA, as
the case  may  be,  pursuant  to  the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreements
between them, respectively, and the Borrower.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  enter into the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, satisfactory to  the  Bank, with SEPOG, SEPOM and
SPTA,  respectively,  in  accordance  with  Section  3.04  of  the
Guarantee Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain  separate
records  for  the  Special   Account,   adequate  to  reflect,  in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices,  the  resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have such separate records  and the Special Account
               for each  fiscal  year  audited  in accordance with
               generally accepted auditing standards and practices
               consistently applied, by  independent and qualified
               auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank each month certified statements
               of the Special Account; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing the Special Account, and the audit thereof, and
               said records as the  Bank  shall  from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions,  the  following   additional   events  are  specified;
provided, however, that if any  such event shall have occurred and
be continuing, the  suspension  of  the  Borrower's  right to make
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  may  be limited to the amounts
re-lent to the entity concerned by such event:
     (a)  that the Borrower shall have failed to enforce, or shall
have amended, modified or  waived,  any  of  the provisions of the
contractual arrangements  referred  to  in  Section  3.01  of this
Agreement;
     (b)  that the Guarantor,  acting  either  directly or through
SCT, shall have failed to enforce, or shall have amended, modified
or waived, any of  the  provisions  of  any of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, or any party to any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
shall have failed to perform any covenant or failed to observe any
obligation thereunder;
     (c)  that  the  Guarantor  or   any  other  authority  having
jurisdiction shall have taken any  action which may materially and
adversely affect the  implementation  of  the  Project or any part
thereof; and
     (d)  that  the  event  described  in  the  last  sentence  of
Section 3.12 of the Guarantee Agreement shall have occurred.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that any of  the  events  specified  in  Section  5.01, other than
subparagraph (d) thereof, of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
Page  6
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower and the  Guarantor  shall have entered into
the contractual arrangements referred  to  in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  at  least  two   of   the   conditions  of  disbursement
described, respectively, in clauses (b) through (e) of paragraph 3
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have been satisfied.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank,  namely,  that the contractual arrangements
referred  to  in  Section  3.01  (a)  of  this  Agreement  and any
Subsidiary Loan Agreements presented  to  the Bank for purposes of
Section 6.01 (b) of  this  Agreement  have  been executed and duly
authorized by and are legally  binding upon the parties thereto in
accordance with their respective terms.
     Section  6.03.  The  date  of  September  7,  1989  is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  12.04  of  the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Director General  of the Borrower is desig-
nated as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Banco Nacional de Obras
            y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C., I.B.D.
          Insurgentes Norte 423
          Mexico, D.F. 06900
          Mexico
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               BANTECARIO                        BNDSME
               Mexico City                       01772619
                                                 Mexico City
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  7
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
                      PUBLICOS, S.N.C., I.B.D.
                    By /s/ German Sandoval
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 9,600,000      42%
(2)  (a)  Equipment             20,900,000      100% of foreign
          (including                            expenditures,
          equipment                             100% of local
          rehabili-                             expenditures
          tation,                               (ex-factory
          spare parts                           cost), and
          and replace-                          65% of local
          ment parts)                           expenditures
     (b)  Dredges                7,800,000
          (including
          equipment
          rehabili-
          tation, spare
          parts, replace-
          ment parts and
          auxiliary plant
          equipment)
(3)  Consultants'                1,700,000      100%
     services
(4)  Unallocated                10,000,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor; and
Page  8
     (c)  the term "ex-factory"  shall  be  deemed  to include ex-
shipyard.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made  in  respect  of:  (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $5,000,000, may  be  made    on  account  of  payments made for
expenditures before  that  date  but  after  August  1,  1988; (b)
payments for expenditures incurred in carrying out Part A.1 of the
Project,  unless   the   Bank   shall   have   received  evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank,  that  (i) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between  the  Borrower  and  SEPOG,   and  (ii)  the  Action  Plan
Arrangement between the Guarantor,  acting  through SCT, and SEPOG
have been entered into; (c)  payments for expenditures incurred in
carrying out Part A.2 of  the  Project, unless the Bank shall have
received  evidence,  satisfactory  to   the  Bank,  that  (i)  the
Subsidiary Loan  Agreement  between  the  Borrower  and SEPOM, and
(ii) the Action  Plan  Arrangement  between  the Guarantor, acting
through SCT, and SEPOM  have  been  entered into; (d) payments for
expenditures incurred in  carrying  out  Part  A.3 of the Project,
unless the Bank shall have  received evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, that (i) the Subsidiary  Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and  SPTA,  and  (ii)  the  Action  Plan  Arrangement  between the
Guarantor, acting through SCT,  and  SPTA  have been entered into;
and (e) payments for  expenditures  incurred  in carrying out Part
A.4 of the Project, unless  the Bank shall have received evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, that the SERPOVER Arrangements have been
entered into by SERPOVER and the Guarantor, acting through SCT.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (a)  improve port
efficiency through the  rehabilitation  and  modernization of port
operations, infrastructure  and  equipment;  (b) improve equipment
management and maintenance; (c)  assist  in the improvement of the
efficiency of dredging operations;  (d) introduce appropriate port
costing systems and  improve  the  ports' financial situation; and
(e) strengthen port investment planning and port management.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Port Rehabilitation and Equipment
1.   At the Port of  Guaymas.  (a)  Construction  of a new control
building and installation of  lighting for the container terminal;
levelling, paving and  striping  for  the  container storage area;
repairs  of  railway  tracks;   rehabilitation  of  the  utilities
systems; relocation of a transit  shed; and (b) acquisition and/or
rehabilitation of equipment for  the handling of container, break-
bulk general cargo and grain.
2.   At the Port of  Manzanillo.  (a) Rehabilitation of the utili-
ties systems; striping  of  the  container  storage  area and port
area; and (b) acquisition  and/or  rehabilitation of equipment and
facilities for handling and  transit storage of containers, break-
bulk cargo and grain.
3.   At the Port of Tampico-Altamira.
     AA.  At Tampico: (a) construction  of marine protection works
at the mouth of the Panuco  river  and to the south of the harbor;
construction of  mooring  and  fendering  systems; construction of
sheds and storm drainage on the wharves; installation of paving on
the wharves;  improvements  to  access  road;  and (b) acquisition
and/or rehabilitation  of  equipment  for  handling general cargo;
acquisition of aids to navigation.
Page  9
     BB.  At Altamira: (a) improvements to access road; completion
of access railway; construction of  an  extension of 250 meters to
the container wharf, including necessary dredging and construction
of an adjoining container  yard,  an equipment maintenance shop, a
control building and an apron  on the existing consolidation shed;
and (b) acquisition of container handling equipment.
4.   At the  Port  of  Veracruz.  Lowering  of  pipelines from the
"PEMEX" terminal  near  entrance  of  existing container terminal;
construction of bridge at  same  site for accessing container yard
at west side of  site;  rehabilitation of break-bulk and container
handling  equipment;  and  acquisition   of  container  and  grain
handling equipment.
Part B:   SEDRA
     Rehabilitation  and  modernization  of  the  basic  fleet  of
trailing  suction  hopper  dredges  and  cutter  suction  pipeline
dredges; acquisition  and  utilization  of  auxiliary  vessels and
craft, measuring  equipment  and  spare  parts;  carrying  out and
implementing  studies  of   nationwide   dredging   needs  and  of
strengthening SEDRA's management and  planning capacity for future
needs.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
     Carrying out of: (a) studies to assist SEDRA to implement the
SEDRA Action Plan;  (b)  a  cost-benefit  study of relocating bulk
traffic facilities from the  Panuco  river to Altamira; (c) assis-
tance in the  preparation  and  implementation  of equipment main-
tenance programs;  (d)  assistance  in  developing port management
accounting systems; and (e)  supervision  of construction of major
civil works.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 1994
     through   August 15, 2003                        2,500,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
Page  10
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in  Part  A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in the United
Mexican States may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Procurement  in  accordance  with  local  competitive bidding
procedures, satisfactory to  the  Bank,  may  be  utilized for the
following contracts:
     (a)  contracts  for  the  construction  of  civil  works  and
estimated to  cost  an  amount  not  exceeding  the  equivalent of
$1,000,000 per contract, up  to  an aggregate amount equivalent to
$13,800,000;
     (b)  all contracts for the  rehabilitation of civil works, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,900,000; and
     (c)  all contracts for the rehabilitation of equipment (other
than dredges), up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,900,000.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of  $500,000  or more and each contract for
goods estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $250,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  11
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ  consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and  conditions  of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and  procedures  satisfactory  to  the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible   Categories"  means  Categories  1
through 3 set forth in the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the Eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Initial Deposit" means an amount equivalent to
six million ($6,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 of this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this  Schedule.  The  Borrower  shall  make  withdrawals  from the
Special Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis
of the evidence that  the  Bank  shall have reasonably determined,
and shall debit the Special Account  with the amount in dollars so
withdrawn or with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than
dollars in which the payment was  made, determined on the basis of
the rate of  exchange  between  the  dollar  and  such currency in
effect: (i) on the date each  payment shall have been made, if the
payment has taken place within  90  days  before the date on which
the withdrawal from  the  Special  Account  has been requested; or
(ii) on the  date  each  payment  shall  have  been  made, if such
payment was made  prior  to  the  date  of  this Agreement and the
replenishment of the Special  Account therefor is requested within
ninety (90)  days  after  such  payment  has  become  eligible for
financing out of the Loan;  or  (iii)  on the date each withdrawal
shall have been made from the Special Account.
3.   The Bank may, at  the  request  of  the Borrower, withdraw on
Page  12
behalf of the Borrower from the  Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit.  Thereafter, and on the basis
of requests by the Borrower  furnished  to the Bank at such inter-
vals as the Bank shall specify, the Bank shall further so withdraw
from the Loan Account  and  deposit  into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required  to replenish the Special Account for
Eligible Expenditures, but only to  the  extent that the amount of
any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as  of  the  date  of  such request, shall not
exceed, in the aggregate,  the  equivalent of the Initial Deposit.
Except as the Bank  may  otherwise  agree, each such deposit after
the Initial Deposit shall be  withdrawn  by the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  Eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the  request  for  such deposit furnished pur-
suant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for a
deposit by the Bank  into  the  Special  Account after the Initial
Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in respect of each
payment made by  the  Borrower  out  of  the Special Account, such
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, when the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the Categories,  minus  the  amount  of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by  the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions, shall be  equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the  Initial  Deposit,  the  Bank shall be entitled,
after consultation with the Borrower,  to reduce the percentage of
disbursements for Eligible Expenditures  or  take any other action
which will ensure the Bank  that  by  the time of disbursements of
the total  amount  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan,  all deposits
(including the Initial Deposit made  by  the Bank into the Special
Account) were made for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall  have  determined that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
amount not eligible  for  financing  by  withdrawal  from the Loan
Account; or (ii) was not  justified by the documentation furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 above,  the Bank shall notify the Borrower
of such circumstances, and if, after  a period of 30 days from the
issuance of such notice,  an  amount  equal  to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified has
not been deposited by the Borrower into the Special Account or, if
the Bank shall so  request,  refunded  to  the Bank, the Bank may,
without in  any  way  restricting  or  limiting  any other rights,
power, or remedy of  the  Bank  under this Agreement, refrain from
making further deposits into such Account.
     (b)  If any amount  outstanding  in  the Special Account will
not be required  to  cover  further  payments  for Eligible Expen-
ditures, the Borrower shall,  promptly  upon notice from the Bank,
and unless otherwise agreed by  the  Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in  the  Special  Account for crediting to
the Loan Account and immediate cancellation.
