Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M1CRoFICHE COPY                                                Report No. 10345-IND
Report No. 10345-INL) Type: (-'AR)
SHANMUGARA/ X82692 / F9 015/ ASTIF
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
MAY 1, 1992
East Asia and Pacific Region
Country Department III
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRItNC\' EQUIVALENTS
(Decemiiber 1991)
Currency Ullit        =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
$1           =  Rp 1,992
Rp 1.0 million        =  $502
FISCAL YEAR
Governmiet of Indonesia
April I1-March 31
PT. TEI-KOM
January I-December 31
WEIGhITS ANI) MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREX'IAT'IONS AND ACRONYMS
AMPS-A              American Mobile Phonie Service - Analog
ASEAN               Association of South East Asian Nations
BAPPENAS            National Development Planining Agency
BPPT                State Ministry for Researchl and Technology
DGPT                Directorate Gener-al of Posts and Telecommunications
FRG                 Federal Republic of Germaniy
GDP                 Gross domestic product
ICB                 International competitive bidding
IDD                 International direct dialinig
ITU                 International Telecommlulinication Union
MTPT                Ministry of TouLrism1. lPosts and Telecommunications
OSP                 Outside Plant
PT. CSM             PT Chitra Sari MaklmuL1r--VSAT Communication Company
PT. INDOSAT         State International Telecomimilluniications Company
PT. INTI            State TelecommlnIllications Manufacturing Company
PT. TELKOM          State Domestic Telecommunllications Company
PUSDIKLATTEL    TelecommuL icationis Education and Training Center
REPELITA            National Five-Year Development Plan
UNDP                United Nations Development Programme
VSAT                Very Small Aperture Satellite Terminal



FOR OFFICIAI, USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ............                    ..      ...........            iv
I. INTRODUCTION ..................................                                      1
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR   .................                                    3
A.  Background .................................                                  3
Sector Organization  ...........................                            3
Network Facilities ...........  ..                                          4
Sector Performance  ...........................                             5
Usage of Service .......... ..                                              7
B.  The Entity ..................................                                 9
Organization and Management  ....................                           9
Staffing ...................................                               10
Training ..............                                         .    11
Audit ....................................                                 13
Billing and Collection ..........................                          13
Accounting Systems and Financial Management ....           ......          13
Management Information System  ...................                         14
C.  Sector Development ............................                              15
Sector Objectives .............................                            15
Key Sector Issues  ............................                            16
III. THE BANK'S PAST EXPERIENCE AND ROLE ..............                                  20
Past Experience  .................................                               20
Lessons Learned  .................................                               21
Rationale for Bank Involvement ........................                          22
This report is based on the laformation supplied by TELKOM and on the findings of a Bank
appraisal mission comprising Messrs. A. Shanmugarajah (Task Manager and Engineer), P. Smith
(Economist), and R. Pradhan (Financial Analyst), which visited Indonesia in December 1991. The
peer reviewers for this project were Messrs. B. Wellenius, D. Joshi (ASTIF), Y. Takano (CFSPS),
Stefan Alber-Glanstaetten (LA4TF), Mrs. M. Haug, Director EA3, and Mr. Peter R. Scherer, Chief
EA3IE have endorsed this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
!Ag& No.
IV. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ...................                           23
Telecommunications Investment Program .23
Project Objectives .24
Project Description .24
Technical Assistance .25
Project Costs .27
Project Financing and Terms .29
Procurement .30
Disbursements .32
Implementation .33
Performance Monitoring .36
Project Reporting, Accounts and Audits .36
Supervision Plan .36
Environment and Health Aspects .37
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .38
PERUMTEL's Historical Financial Performance .37
TELKOM's Opening Balance Sheet .39
TELKOM's Projected Financiai Performance.                               40
TELKOM's Projected Financing Plan ....................                  42
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .43
Least-Cost Solution .43
Tariffs .43
Benefits .45
Rate of Return.                                                         46
Project Risks .46
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                     48
Agreements Reached ..... .   ........................                   48
Recommendation .50



iii
ANNEXES                                                                  Page No.
1.  Cellular Radio Mobile Telephone Service  .................. 52
2.  MTPT Organizational Chart ........           ................... 53
3.  Basic Telecommunications Sector Statistics  ................. 54
4.  Supply vs. Demand - Historical Data ...................... 64
5.  Telephone Service Issues .........         .................... 66
6.  TELKOM Organizational Chart ........................ 67
7.  TELKOM Employee Data ........               .................... 68
8.  International Development in oector Organization  ....      ......... 71
9. 1992 - 1996 Investment Program .75
10. Project Components .78
11. Terms of Reference .81
12  Procurement Packages and Schedule .105
13. Disbursement Schedule .107
14. Implementation Schedule .108
15. Performance Indicators .110
16. Action Plan .111
17. Historical Financial Statements .114
18. Projected Financial Statements .118
19.  Assumptions Used for Financial Projections .121
20. Summary of TELKOM Tariffs .123
21. Return on Investments .129
22.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .133
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1   Key Performance Indicators ...........................  15
4.1   Estinated Project Cost .........          ...................... 28
4.2   Project Financing .................................. 29
4.3   Procurement Arrangements ............................ 32
4.4   Disbursement of Proposed Loan  ......................... 34
5.1   Key Historical Financial Performance Indicators ............... 38
5.2   TELKOM'S Opening Balance Sheet ....................... 40
5.3   TELKOM's Key Projected Financial Performance Indicators ....       .... 41
5.4   Forecasted Sources and Applications of Funds (1992-96) ....      ...... 42
MAPS: IBRD No. 23237
23404



iv
INDONESIA
FOURTN TELECOMMUNICATIOYNS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summar
Borrower         : Republic of Indonesia
Benefidiary      : PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TELKOM)
Amount           : $375.0 million equivalent
Terms             : Twenty years including a five-year grace period at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
On-lending Terms : $373 million out of the proceeds of the loan will be on-lent from the
Government of Indonesia to TSLKOM for 20 years including a grace
period of 5 years; the on-lending rate will be at a variable interest rate
pegged to Bank Indonesia's (Bl) three-month domestic money market
certificate (Sertifikat Bank Indonesia -- SBI) plus one percent. The rate
would be adjusted on January 1 and July 1 of each year, based on the
average of SBI three-month maturity quotations during the preceding six
months. The remaining $2 million will be made available to the Ministry
of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT).
Project Objectives
and Description     The project has two main objectives: (a) to improve sector performance by
promoting a regulatory regime conducive to competition in the provision of
telecommunication services; and (b) to meet the growing demand for
telecommunications services by enhancing the quality of TELKOM's
service, effective utilization of existing facilities, increasing system
efficiency and modernizing and expanding the networks. It consists of both
(i) technical assistance and (ii) investments:
(i)  Technical assistance will help:  (a) the Government in promoting
competition in, and developing the effectiveness of regulation of, the
sector, (b) TELKOM  in developing  as a profe-ssionally-run,
commercially-oriented enterprise, by supporting ongoing efforts to
enhance human resources planning and development and by improving
its financial management and capacity for investment program
development and implementation (through decentralization where
appropriate); (c) TELKOM in managing the implementation of the
project investments. Overseas study fellowships would be available for
both TELKOM and MTPT telecommunications staff.
(ii) Investment component, which would include: (a) provision of switching
and cable networks to connect about 600,000 new telephone lines,



v
including provision of about 20,000 pay phones to serve the non-
subscribing public; (b) provision of terrestrial microwave backbone
transmission network to improve telecommunications service in Java,
Bali, Nusa-Tenggara, Kalimantan, and Sulawesi; (c) rehabilitation and
replacement of obsolete network facilities; (d) provision of spares, tools
and test equipment to improve maintenance and repair facilities; and
(e) further computerization of TELKOM's operations such as directory
inquiry services and netwcrk management.
Project Benefits
and Risks            Benefits. Institutional support will assist the government to strengthen its
regulatory capability, which is critical to the success of the liberalization
efforts of the government. It will also assist TELKOM in improving its
performance as an effective and efficient entity operating on a sound
commercial basis. TELKOM's institutional development will be pursued in
a number of ways, including on-the-job and overseas training and technical
assistance to improve managerial, financial and technical capabilities. The
investment component will satisfy part of the unmet demand for
telecommunications services. Increased availability of telephone service and
improved quality of service will make an important contribution to increased
business efficiency and productivity. The project will also continue to
further develop the local consultancy and outside plant construction
industries through collaboration with international firms.
Risks. The principal risk for the project relates to TELKOM's capability
to implement the project. However, this risk is minimized by upfront
actions by government and TELKOM wherever appropriate. In this regard,
TELKOM has already shown its commitment to the project by establishing
a project implementation unit to oversee all aspects of the project on a full
time basis. In addition, adequate technical assistance is provided under the
project to assist. TELKOM in the implementation and supervision of con-
struction works. Residual risks will be minimized by agreed measures to
monitor project implementation, with corrective actions initiated as
necessary.



vi
Estimated Project Cost La
BY ITEMS                     LOCAL             FOREIGN              TOTAL
--------------- (US$ MILT TON) 
1.  Switching Exchange                         36.6               195.7              232.3
-  Expansion                              40.8                95 5               136.3
- Rehabilitation
2.  Outside Plant Network (OPN)
-  Expansion                             343.3               117/.9              461.2
-  Rehabilitation                          18.0                9.8                27.8
3.  Transmission
-  Expansion                               15.7              103.9               119.6
-  Rehabilitation                          13.8               36.5                50.3
4.  Junction Network
-  Expansion                                8.4               25.7                34.1
5.  Computer Support System                      5.7               35.0                40.7
6.  Spare Parts, Tools & Test
Equip.                                  6.1                17.0                23.1
7.  Technical Assistance
(i)  Capacity building
- MTPT                               0.6                 1.2                 1.8
- TELKOM                              0.5                 3.0                 3.5
(ii)   Training
- MTPT                                0.2                 0.8                 1.0
- TELKOM                              0.6                 1.5                 2.1
(iii)  Project Implementation               2.5                7.8                10.3
Support
Total Base Cost                          492.8 1U3                             1.144.1
Contingencie
Physical                                 24.6                14.2               38.8
Price                                    38.8                 7.4               46.2
Total Project Colt                       556.2               672 9             .1,229.1
Interest during construction ,l                 76.3               47.6               123.9
Iota! Financine Requird                  6   5               72                1353m0a
La   TE1 OM is exempted from duties and taxes on imported items. Local cosbt include VAT and olher ta  estimad
to be about S111.8 million equivalent.
1b  Interest during construction is calculated by applying the interest rates of 7.73% on Bank, 3.5% on USA (Exim Bank),
Netherlands (ABN-Amro Bank) and Spanish, 2.5% on Japanese; 7% average on KfW; and 5.4% avere on French
loans, plus the spread applicable to the onlending of each loan to TELKOM, to the avemag amount expeotd to be
outstanding in each year of construction and by adding commitment fee on the averae undrawn amount of tho loans.



vii
Financing Plan
LOCAL          FOREIGN      TOTAL    % OF
---------------US$ MILLION-----------------  TOTAL
TELKOM COMPONENT
Bank - IBRD                 134.0        241.0        375.0        28.2
FRG                            -          71.0         71.0         5.0
France/Credit Lyc .nais        -          52.0         52.0         4.0
Japan (Sumitomo/OECF)          -         100.0         100.0        7.0
Netherlands (ABN-Anmro)        -          84.0         84.0         6.0
Spain                          -          50.0         50.0         3.7
USA (Exim)                     -          75.0         75.0         6.0
TlELKOM                     497.4         47.5        544.9        40.0
GOI                           1.1          -             1.1        0.1
Total                   632.5        720         1,3530       100,0
Estimated Disbursements
(Million $)
IBRD FY
1993    1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Annual        5.0      10.0     70.0     100.0     100.0      90.0
Cumulative    5.0      15.0     85.0     185.0    285.0      375.0
Economic Rate of Return: 23 percent



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       One of the key prerequisites for a sound economic development is the
availability of adequate infrastructure facilities for both public and private
sector. Telecommunications has emerged as an important strategic component of
these infrastructure facilities. The inadequacies of the Indonesian
telecommunication sector, both in quantity and quality, are a constraint to
sustained industrial and export growth. Four key issues need to be addressed
to alleviate these constraints: (i) mobilizing at least-cost the large
capital needed for massive investments to accelerate network expansion and
modernization; (ii) developing TELKOM into a modern, commerr.iallv oriented
organization capable of efficiently meeting telecommunication needs of
Indonesia; (iii) introducing appropriate competition policy to promote private
sector entry into the sector; and (iv) establishing an effective regulatory
regime to promote competition.
1.2       As part of the evolving strategy GOI has demonstrated its clear
commitment to improve sector performance by implementing a number of reforms
by:  (i) beginning the process of privatization by allowing private sector
provision of non-basic services,1/ paging and customer premises equipment;
(ii) introducing revenue sharing agreements between TELKOM and private
investors for cellular telephone systems; (iii) initiating studies to
strengthen GOI's capabilities to effectively manage the sector; and
(iv) changing PERUMTEL's legal status from PERUM (an enterprise wholly owned
by government) to a PESERO (limited liability company whose capital is divided
in shares which are currently wholly owned by government)2/ now called
TELKOM to operate on commercial principles. This was a very important
milestone in the commercialization of the sector. To improve its internal
efficiency, TELKOM is restructuring its organization to operate on a
decentralized mode to facilitate gradual restructuring of TELKOM into several
regional subsidiary companies under a holding company.
y/   "Basic" telecommunications services are currently defined in government
regulations as telephone (including cellular mobile radio telephone),
telex, telegram and leased circuits; "nonbasic" services are all other
network services, such as E-mail, Voice-mail, information services e.g.,
weather, share prices.
2/   There are three categories of state-owned enterprises in Indonesia:  a
PERJAN which is primarily oriented to the provision of social services
rather than profits; a PERUM (e.g. PERUMTEL) which is expected to recover
the cost of sarvices as well as fulfil social responsibilities; a PERSERO
(like P.T. Indosat) which is a limited liability company (with a
commercial orientation).



- 2 -
1.3       GOI recognizes the need to adopt further reforms to achieve Its more
ambitious development objectives for the sector. These include:
(i) developing a second carrier to provide modern telecommunications services
in competition with TELKOM; (ii) removing remaining barriers to active private
sector participation in all non-basic services as provided under
Telecommunications Law No. 3; and (iii) gradually shifting Government
responsibility from ownership and management to policy and regulation. These
reforms will be supported under the proposed Fourth Telecommunications
Project.



- 3 -
II. THE TELECOMKNU-ICATIONS SECTOR
A. Back&round
Sector Or&anization
2.1       The telecommunications sector in Indonesia is dominated by PT.
Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TELKOM), the domestic telecommunications service
provider. It is a limited liability company (para. 1.2) which operates
approximately 1.2 million telephone lines. All international
telecommunications services are provided through PT. Indosat, also a limited
liability company wholly owned by Government. In addition, cellular mobile
radio telephone service is provided in the Jakarta-Bandung corridor by PT.
Rajasa Hazanah Perkasa, a private limited liability company in cooperatioI
with TELKOM in accordance with a revenue sharing agreement. And recently two
private limited liability companies operating on the (AMPS-A) system have also
been authorized to provide cellular service in Jakarta and East Java in
cooperation with TELKOM. Details of this service are in Annex 1. VSAT
(mainlv data) satellite private network telecommunications services are
provided by PT. CSM, a private company, in accordance with another
interconnection and revenue-sharing agreement with TELKOM. Besides the public
network, dedicated network facilities are owned and operated by the National
Electricity Corporation (PLN), the state oil company (PERTAMINA), the state
railway (PJKA), the Indonesian armed forces and by other users with special
requirements. In addition, many private and public enterprises lease circuits
from TELKOM to establish private networks. PT. Inti manufactures or assembles
telephone instruments, radio and multiplex equipment, satellite ground sta-
tions, and digital switching equipment based on a Siemens license. PT. Inti
also provides support services to TELKOM and Indosat in areas of exchange
planning and the installation, testing and maintenance of switching and
transmission equipment. Recently two private sector companies in joint
ventures with AT&T of USA and NEC of Japan respectively have been allowed to
manufacture digital switching equipment in competition with PT. Inti. The
price to TELKOM, reportedly averaging about US$250 to 300 per line (including
power supply, engineering, installation, excluding taxes and duties) is
comparable to those prevailing in international markets. There are also four
private limited liability companies manufacturing cables and 14 small
privately owned manufacturers of telecommunications equipment. The user
community is relatively unorganized and there is no national telecommunication
users association in Indonesia at present. However, the larger business
users, Indonesia Chamber of Commerce and computer users have begun to voice an
interest in telecommunications issues.
2.2       The GOI has effective control of the sector both by virtue of the
Government's statutory authority over public telecommunications and radio
licensing and as owner of the major sector entities, TELKOM and Indosat. Both
TELKOM and Indosat are accountable to the Ministry of Finance. However, the
Ministry of Finance has delegated the authority to Ministry of Tourism Posts
and Telecommunications. Tariffs for public telecommunications services must
be approved by the Minister of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunication. The



-4-
Secretary General of the Ministry is responsible for administration of the
Ministry and advises the Minister on sector policy issues.  The Directorate
General for Posts and Telecommunications (DGPT) is responsible, in the area of
telecommunications, for regulation and radio licensing.  Currently, the
Director General is the Chairmaii Lf the Board of Commissioners which oversees
TELKOM operations and reviews its inveatment plans, budgets and tariffs. In
addition to MTPT, important roles are played by the Ministry of Finance, the
National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) and the State Ministry for
Research and Technology (BPPT). The Ministry of Finance approves budgets and
oversees TELKOM's financial performance. BAPPENAS coordinates and controls
the government five year planning process (Repelita) and approves investment
plan and funding. BPPT has a lead role in determining the timing and
introduction of the new technologies that art, to be used. The organization
chart of the MTPT is in Annex 2.
2.3       In early 1989, new telecommunications legislation was passed.  The
most significant change from the previous legislation is that TELKOM's
monopoly in the provision of domestic telecommunications was modified to
permit the provision of nonbasic services by other public and private
entities. Pursuant to the new legislation, regulations for the provision of
nonbasic services by other entities were published during 1991.
Network Facilities
2.4       Local Exchanges.  Total installed exchange capacity in Indonesia at
the end of 1991 was 1.5 million line units, of which 1.2 million were
connected --- giving an exchange fill ratio of 80X. Over 93X of local
exchange lines are automatic, of which 50X are now digital. At the end of the
project (end 1997) the number of working lines is expected to increase from
1.2 million to 3.2 million (a 167% increasL). Over 99Z of the local exchange
lines would be automatic and mostly digital. To handle the additional traffic
from increased customers and to improve the present traffic congestion
(para. 2.14), a significant expansion of the interexchange network in Jakarta
and other multi-exchange areas with new and large capacity tandem exchanges
will be provided under the proposed project. Existing net.ork facilities are
described in Annex 3.
2.5       Outside Plant Network.  Outside plant network reliability needs to
be vastly improved, by upgrading technology and maintenance efficiency to
exploit the potential benefits of sophisticated technology adopted for other
parts of the network such as switching and transmission. Under the Third
Telecommunications Project (Loan 3182-IND), TELKOM will be establishing twelve
out of the 27 planned outside plant maintenance centers (OPMC)--five in
Jakarta, two in Surabaya and one each in Denpasar, Medan, Palembang, Semarang
and Ujung Pandang to offer customers in those cities significant improvements
in service provision and repair time. When these centers are completed in mid
1993 and staffed with competent staff, the fault rate is expected to fall from
about nine faults per 100 working lines per month to approximately five. At
the same time, productivity will improve from one to three faults repaired per
line-man per day and the faults cleared within 48 hours of fault occurrence
will be raised from 30 percent to about 70 percent. A similar approach also



-5-
needs to be taken to improve the performance of the outside plant network in
other cities, thereby improving the reliability and quality of service
countrywide. TELKOM has agreed to have the remaining fifteen OPMCs
established by 1996. Annex 3 gives data on the share of faults in the outside
plant network, speed of service restoration and OPMC expansion plan. TELKOM's
target for year 2000 is to achieve one fault per 100 working lines,
productivity of five faults cleared per line-man per day and repair 90% of the
faults within 48 hours. The proposed project provides for rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of the outside plant network to achieve the above
objectives.
2.6       Long Distance Network.  The long distance network in Indonesia is
comprised of 260 trunk exchanges interconnected through microwave, satellite,
optical fibre, coaxial cables and open-wire systems. Long distance direct-
dial service is available to most but not all automatic local subscribers.
All customers in Jakarta have long distance direct-dialing (LDD) but only 84X
of the customers elsewhere have LDD, giving a nationwide average of 93%. Long
distance transmission systems will be augmented and expanded under the
proposed project to improve LDD service quality. The existing and proposed
long distance networks are in Map 23404.
2.7       Palapa Domestic Satellite System.  TELKOM presently operates two
satellites, Palapa-B2P, and Palapa-B2R, launched in 1987 and 1990
respectively. The design-life time of both satellites is 8 years. Annex 3
summarizes the customer base for Palapa. TELKOM has not optimized the
marketing and service potential of these satellites. Therefore, the current
organization needs to be strengthened to increase revenues from Palapa
satellite services by: (a) establishing a well-developed marketing
organization and strategy for Palapa; and (b) developing capabilities to offer
value-added services with proportionally high customer value and revenue
earning capacity instead of merely contracting raw transmission capacity.
The ongoing Third Telecommunications Project supports a study to examine the
options to separate Palapa operations from TELKOM and the proposed Fourth
Telecommunications Project would provide technical assistance to implement the
agreed findings of that study (para. 2.36).
2.8       International Facilities.  International telecommunications services
in Indonesia are accessed via two international gateway exchanges located in
Jakarta and Medan, interconnected through submarine cables and satellite
circuits to 185 countries. At the end of 1990, there were 1619 international
circuits, up from 248 in 1980, a growth rate of about 20% p.a. International
traffic has increased by 26% p.a. during the same period, well above the rate
of growth in -he number of circuits. The majority of international traffic is
business related and mostly to Japan, Singapore, and USA.
Sector Performance
(a) Access to Service
2.9       Telephone.  At the end of 1991 there were 1.2 million working lines
in operation in Indonesia, giving a density 0.68 lines per 100 population,
which compares poorly with other countries and is the lowest in the ASEAN



- 6 -
countries (Figure 2.1). Furthermore, telecommunications services are
concentrated in urban areas. Jakarta, with only 9.4X of the population, has
about 371 of the telephone lines. Outside Jakarta, Sumatra, Sulawesi and
Maluku are better served than the rest. In 1991, penetration was 5.6 i/ per
100 population in Jakarta, but averaged only 0.40 per 100 for the rest of the
country (ranging from a high of 0.60 per 100 in the best served part to 0.33
per 100 in the worst served part of the country). Regional distribution of
telephone service is given in Annex 3. Public telecommunications service is
currently available to all 27 provinces, 55 municipalities, 236 district
capitals and 2,869 of the 3,539 subdistricts. But only approximately 10,000
villages of the 67,600 have telephone service. International direct dialing
access to 185 countries is available to 7 percent of subscribers in 28 cities.
407 telephone service retail shops and 14,000 public pay-phones provide access
service to the nonsubscribing public. TELKOM's target is to allocate 2.5
percent of the local telephone 1.Lies to provide pay-phones which will be
financed under the proposed project. This is comparable to the standards
followed by other telecommunication administrations.
Flgure 2.1: Main LinelOG persons
*low
60.
40f    __                __       _I_
Jill  I
20      i     im_                 _    _    _
10  ' 1111                    _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
m.~~ ,l , I
t9  /tRt///      .
2.10      Telex.  Aside from telecopier (facsimile) that is transmitted over
the telephone network, telex is the most important non-voice service in
Indonesia and accounts for approximately 41 of TELKOM's operating revenue.
i    Compared with 25 in Kualalumpur and 11.8 in Bangkok.



-7-
Only modest growth of telex lines is expected over the next five years because
of significant substitution by fax and data. Installed telex switching
capacity is sufficient to meet demand up to year 2000 and no further increase
will be required.
2.11      Telegraph and Data.  Telegram service is provided at affordable
prices through a network of 680 telegraph offices. At the end of 1990, there
were almost 2,300 voice and about 500 data leased circuits in the country.
There are approximately 260 subscribers in Bandung, Jakarta, Medan, Surabaya,
Padang and Batam to TELKOM's packet-switched data service, (Sambungan Data
Packet--SKDP). SKDP is also connected through the facilities of PT. Indosat
to international packet-switched services in 26 countries. Service is said to
be slow and unreliable due to poor quality of the outside plant network (para.
2.5). Although a number of value-added services that are defined as non-basic
have been open to private operators since 1989 (para. 2.3), clear guidelines
and simple licensing procedures need to be developed to attract potential new
operators.
(b) Demand for and Supplv of Services
2.12      As of December 31, 1991, only 70X of the expressed demand (working
lines plus registered applicants) for telephones was satisfied, down from 89Z
in 1980. However, the total number of registered applicants list grew from
45,000 to 520,000 as the 101 p.a. cumulative average network growth failed to
match the 13.5X growth in demand over the period. Since 1980, the gap between
expressed demand for telephone service and available telephone lines has
widened (Figure 2.2). These figures underestimate actual demand because many
potential residential customers do not sign up because the backlog is so
large. One factor which worsens long waiting lists in many developing
countries is low connection charges. However, Indonesia has high connection
charges. TELKOM projects expressed demand to increase by 191 p.a. to 5.0
million by 1997, with total demand estimated to reach 8 million lines. Since
the commencement of the Third Telecommunications Project, the annual growth
rate in working lines has increased from about 81 in 1989 to 181 in 1990.
Over the period 1990 - 1996, the annual rate of growth of working lines is
expected to exceed 201 p.a. (Figure 2.3). At the end of 1996, 801 of the
expressed demand will be satisfied, increase from 701 in 1991 (Annex 4).
2.13      Despite rehabilitation efforts and large increases in investment and
growth during the decade, the supply of telecommunications facilities and
services will remain inadequate relative to demand throughout 1990s.
Therefore measures to improve the efficiency of network use are critical.
Such measures were begun as a part of the Third Telecommunication Project
(paras. 2.5 and 2.14). They include improved repair time, improved traffic
engineering, network rehabilitation and improved tariff structure. More,
however, needs to be done. Implementation of an action program to further
improve efficiency will be part of the project (para. 4.30).



-8-
(c) Oualitv of Service
2.14      Quality of telephone service is poor.  Annex 3 presents the
successful call completion rates (SCR) which were on average 40 percent for
automatically dialed local calls and 20 percent i/ for long distance direct-
dialed calls in Indonesia. Typical call completion rates of well dimensioned
networks in other countries are 80 percent and 60 percent, respectively.
Issues contributing to low call completion rates and vtrategy to address these
issues are presented in Annex 5. This strategy, which is supported by the
ongoing Third Telecommunications Project (Ln 3182) gives priority to effective
capacity utilization, replacement of old cables and obsolete switching
systems, rehabilitation of local networks and increase in the traffic handling
capacity of the system. In addition to the investment component, the
technical assistance provided under the Third Telecommunications Project is
developing TELKOM capacity to perform on a continuous basis measurements,
analysis and forecasting of traffic to provide a reliable data base for
network optimization. Much more needs to be done to improve the network's
traffic handling performance. One of the key objectives of the technical
assistance provided under the proposed project (para. 4.9(c)) is to help
TELKOM to establish a suitable organization for traffic planning, network
operation and management to detect changes in traffic flow and indicate when
to take actions to prevent network congestion and service degradation.
Usage of Service
2.15      An analysis of the billing data (Annex 3) shows that 20% of the
subscribers (200,000) provide 75 percent of the revenues which is comparable
with other telecommunications administrations. Until the Bank's Third
Telecommunications Project, TELKOM did not distinguish between residential and
business subscribers nor revenue generation by type of user. TELKOM
established in November 1990 in Jakarta a Customer Service Group (CSG) to give
special attention to the needs of key customers speedily and effectively.
Based on experience gained, through the CSG operation, TELKOM plans to
establish units in other regions to serve the specific needs of: corporate
customers and major business customers. Billing data also reveals that a
large number of customers are not generating any originating pulse revenue for
TELKOM. Hence TELKOM needs to examine this category and take action to adjust
the monthly rental so that all lines cover at least their incremental costs
(para. 6.4).
i/   Compared to Japan 71, Malaysia 50, Singapore 70.



Figure 2.2: Expressed Demand vs. Waiting Applicants
Historical Data in Indonesia (1980-190)
Figure 2.3: TELKOM- Annual % Growth of Actual and
Projected Number of Main Lines
25-
20
PAro3ecte  ProJected



- 10 -
B. The Entity
Organization and Management
2.16      On September 24, 1991, the GOI changed the corporate status of
PERUMTEL to a limited liability company (para. 1.2), thereby reflecting the
increased commercial mandate and autonomy of the company. At the same time
its name changed to PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TELKOM). TELKOM is managed
by a Board of Directors,j/ who are appointed by the Minister of Finance and
are iscountable to the Minister of Finance and headed by a President-Director.
The E sident-Director has authority for all operations of TELKOM. In
addition to the President-Director, the Board includes five other directors
with functional responsibility, respectively, for development and logistics,
services, operations, finance, and human resources. Operational
responsibility devolves to 12 regions, and responsibility for major
development projects to 3 project-managers. Also reporting to the Board are
several staff units responsible for Corporate Planning, Research and
Development; Education and Training; Information Technology; and the Corporate
Inspectorate, an internal audit-unit. TELKOM's existing organizational
structure is shown in Annex 6. There have been no changes in the top
management, appointeJ in 1988, with a mandate to bring about needed reforms.
The management team is dynamic and forward looking and has implemented a
number of reforms including improving staff communications, streamlining
procurement systems and improving accounting and financial systems.
2.17      As discussed in Section A of this chapter, TELKOM is expected to
grow rapidly in the 1990s. Its new customer connection rate would grow from
over 15% per year at present to over 20% per year by 1996, and sustained at
that rate through to the year 2000. The rapid expansion of network capacity
involves increasingly complex technical, financial and managerial tasks for
which TELKOM needs to continue to strengthen its institutional capacity.
Areas that need strengthening have been recognized and action programs are
either already underway or planned, in many cases with assistance from the
Bank. To bring about many of the necessary institutional improvements,
TELKOM, under the Third Telecommunications Project, entered into a twinning
arrangement in March 1991 with the Korean Telecommunications Authority
International (KTAI). The areas that are being strengthened include corporate
planning, operations, finance and project implementation.
2.18      With the change in corporate status to a limited liability company
as well as the gradual introduction of competition, TELKOM management has
takeni a number of policy decisions and actions to delegate decision-making
responsibility and accountability down to the lowest feasible levels in the
organization and to establish focused strategies for serving the needs of
different customer groups. As part of these policy and organizational
changes, TELKOM would reorganize itself into six significantly independent
operating regions and 43 strategic business units (SBU) instead of the current
5/   The Board is comparable to an executive management committee.  Each of
the directors are full-time employees.



- 11 -
functional structure. Because of skill mix and staff availability factors, it
is intended to implement the decentralization in phases. The first phase
would be centered on Jakarta as this account for about 40Z of TELKOM's
business. Based on experience gained, TELKOM plans to extend full
decentralization to the remaining regions over a period of four years
beginning 1992. The Bank fully supports the proposed restructuring and the
technical assistance provided under the proposed lcan will help TELKOM to
adopt a practical, structured approach to move towards a flexible and
responsible structure.
Staffing
2.19      A summary of TELKOM's staff efficiency and staff composition is in
Annex 7. With about 40,000 employees at the end of 1991, TELKOM's staffing
ratio of 32 staff per 1000 telephone lines is high as compared with Korea (6),
Malaysia (20), Singapore (14), and Thailand (18). However, there have been
significant improvements in TELKOM's staffing efficiency in recent years, as
shown in Figure 2.4. This has been possible partly due to growth in the
number of main lines connected while holding the total number of staff
virtually constant and partly due to contracting out a number of non core
services such as local cable network design and its construction, maintenance,
and janitorial services. With the very substantial quantities of highly
reliable digital equipment to be installed in the coming years, TELKOM is
expected to achieve a staffing ratio of 16/1,000, which would be comparable to
that of the ASEAN countries.
2.20      There are also serious imbalances in the mix of TELKOM employees.
For example TELKOM's work force includes only 1,800 university graduates.
That is only 4.5 percent of total staff, a very low figure for an entity
employing highly sophisticated technology. This ratio would be about 10 to 15
percent in developed telecommunications entities. To improve its staffing
efficiency and in order to address the staffing imbalance, TELKOM, in 1991
initiated a program to improve the planning and control of human resources,
referred to as the Human Resource Model (HRM). Work was carried out initially
in Jakarta to identify the actual composition of staff and the nature of their
work, to prepare a forecast of staffing requirements by jobs and to estimate
training and recruitment by occupational category. Preliminary findings
confirm previous assessments that staff is unbalanced, and the organization
faces a major task in reallocating and retraining existing personnel. A
detailed tra..ning and recruitment plan will be available for Jakarta by
June 30, 1992 when the consultant financed by TELKOM completes his assignment.
Training
2.21      To address its training challenges, TELKOM has a separate department
for training. This department known as PUSDIKLAT plays an important role in
TELKOM's efforts to upgrade skills of its technical and administrative staff
and managers. There are twelve regional training centers (RTCs) with a staff
about 667, including 175 instructors. An upgrading program for both the
central training centre (CTC) and RTCs, initiated with UNDP-ITU cooperation
and supported by the ongoing Third Telecommunications Project, is currently
being implemented. Under this program, TELKOM will decentralize much of



- 12 -
technical, administrdtive, operational and supervision training to RTCs and
run the CTC as a resource center. In addition, in part because of the huge
distances in Indonesia, distance learning techniques are also being developed.
Computer-based training is in the early stages of development.
STAFF PRODUCTIVITY
(Staff per 1000 malnilnes)
eo    -........._ 
65 
50 -"
45                              __-
40-
30
196     196     197      198     19      1990    19 91
2.22      In addition to reforms already underway, TELKOM4 needs to make some
strategic changes in its training program in order to move from the existing
corporate culture embedded in civil service attitudes to one which is more
business oriented. The main aim is to transform TELKOM staff into an
efficient, educated, well-trained and motivated work force vhich will be able
to run telecommunications as a commercially oriented, efficient enterprise.
Success will depend uritically on instilling new attitudes and developing new
ushills in all levels of management. This will be a long-run continuing
process. Technical assistance provided under the project will support the
training plan currently under formulation (para. 2.20). An early step in
changing TELKOMI's corporate culture would be to recruit skilled personnel from



- 13 -
the private sector managers with proven management skills to some of its
middle and senior management positions. During negotiations an understanding
was reached that TELKOM will follow this approach and will incorporate this
into its recruitment objectives.
Audit
2.23      As for PERUMTEL, TELKOM's accounts are required by its charter to be
audited by Government auditors. The audits are carried out following
generally accepted accounting practices and standards. Although PERUMTEL's
audit reports have been qualified in the past, special efforts made by
PERUMTEL's management since 1988 have resulted not only in it receiving for
the first time an unqualified opinion from the auditors for the 1989 accounts,
but also in finalizing the unaudited accounts within three months of the
fiscal year end. Audits for the 1990 accounts were also unqualified and were
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the close of the fiscal year as
per audit covenant under the Third Telecommunications Project. During
negotiations, TELKOM confirmed that unaudited and audited corporate accounts
for FY 1992 and thereafter will be submitted to the Bank within four months
and six months, respectively, after close of the fiscal year.
Billing and Collection
2.24      Computerized bills are currently prepared monthly and issued within
ten days after the billing period. Overall collection performance is
satisfactory with accounts receivable at the end of 1991 at 40 days of billing
for the year. This performance has been mainly due to the good collection
performance for private customers. The collection from government users,
which was poor in the past, has improved with various progressive steps
introduced in 1990 by TELKOM. The accounts receivable for government
subscribers at the end of 1991 was about five months of billing. During
negotiations an understanding was reached with TELKOM that to further improve
accounts receivable from Government subscribers, TELKOM will continue taking
actions to ensure that the amounts owed to TELKOM by all government users will
not be overdue in the aggregate by more than two months of total billing to
such users.
Accountine Systems and Financial Management
2.25      To improve the timeliness of accounting data and preparation of
financial management reports, a new chart of accounts was introduced in early
1989 in TELKOM's head office and all regional offices. A computerized general
ledger program was implemented in head office and regional offices. These
initiatives have helped immensely to prepare timely and accurate financial
reports. Consequently, since 1989 annual financial accounts have been closed
within three months of the close of the fiscal year as compared to seven
months for 19d8 accounts. In addition to the benefits resulting from
standardization of input data, the new chart of accounts allows preparation of
accounts at the subregional level and facilitates budget monitoring and
preparation of regional financial statements.



- 14 .
2.26      Moreover, for TELKOM to effectively operate as a commercial entity,
it needs to efficiently manage its financial assets and develop a strategy for
securing and diversifying its financing sources. Internal cash management
needs to be improved in order to reduce cash in transit and reduce non-
interest bearing cash balances. In order to carry out these tasks, TELKOM's
treasury function needs to be strengthened to enable it to assess the best
financing techniques for its development, issues securities, manage its cash
and liabilities and assess foreign exchange exposure,
2.27      With the planned decentralization, TELKOM needs to review and revise
its accounting policies, systems and procedures. Areas that needs attention
are (i) budget management, (ii) financial projection, (iii) cash-flow
projection and (iv) cost accounting systems to reflect real costs.
2.28      Financial data have not been fully used by TELKOM's management as a
tool for operational control due to the weaknesses in its internal financial
systems, lack of adequate qualified finance staff both at the headquarters and
regions and ability of management to understand financial information. The
technical assistance component under the ongoing Third Telecommunications
Project, through the provision of overseas fellowships and secondments to
other telecommunications organizations for TELKOM managers and finance staff,
is assisting TELKOM to upgrade the skills of the Finance Directorate and build
TELKOM's management capacity to use financial data in the management of its
operations. However, more needs to be done both in training and in improving
the financial management systems and procedures.
2.29      During negotiations, agreement was reached to implement an action
plan (para. 4.30) to continue to upgrade and strengthen TELKOM's accounting
systems and procedures, and financial functions.   The proposed project
provides technical assistance to assist TELKOM in its efforts, especially to
introduce a cost accounting system, upgrade the management accounting system
and improve the treasury function, and provide funds for the necessary foreign
training required and the software and hardware for computerization needs. An
important task of the consultants to be employed under the project will also
be to carry out a diagnostic study to identify the staffing needs and prepare
the necessary training programs and provide training in their specific areas.
Management Information System
2.30      Quality of information currently available to managers needs to be
vastly improved. Existing reports are primarily financial and statistical,
and virtually nothing has been done to provide information tailored to the
needs of individual middle and senior executives. For example, no timely and
accurate information is readily available on performance in handling service
complaints or requests. The existing Personnel Information System (SIMPEG)
cannot provide sufficient information on where employees work and what they
do. This information is being provided by a parallel system, the Human
Resource Model (HRM). TELKOM recognizes that there is a very great need for
systems integration, and the provision of information which will allow
managers to monitor business performance. Consultancy proposed under the
project (para. 4.9(b)) would help TELKOM with an appropriate MIS system.



- 15 -
2.31      Overall, TELKOM management is aware of the institutional
shortcomings outlined here and they have significantly improved TELKOM's
performance with the assistance of several donors, including the Bank, over
the last three years. When completed by end 1996, the ongoing program,
including the proposed project, will make a significant contribution towards
alleviating the current service shortcomings and upgrading the quality of the
domestic telecommun'cation services.  A summary of key performance indicators
to be achieved at the end of the project period is given in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Fiscal year ending December 31                   1991          1996
1.  Total Main Lines (millions)                    1.2          3.2
2. Call completion rate
- long distance direct dialing service       20X           42X
3. Staffing/1,000 main lines                        32           16
4. Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets               21X          291
5. Net Internal Cash Generation                     41X          481
C. Sector DeveloRment
Sector Objectives
2.32      The Government's policy for economic development emphasizes
(a) maximizing export earnings by promoting the development of key support
services to exporters, (b) expanding the opportunities for and the capacity of
the private sector to participate in Indonesia's development, (c) increasing
the efficiency of the public sector, and (d) promoting balanced national
development by reducing the development imbalance between urban and rural
areas and between Java and the rest of the country. A prerequisite for
achieving these goals is the provision of reliable and efficient systems for
the transmission and processing of information, which in turn requires an
efficient countrywide telecommunications network. Therefore, the Government's
objectives for the telecommunications sector are to:
(i)    increase access to modern and efficient telecommunications
services in urban and rural areas, thereby contributing to
growth and efficiency of the private sector and to the
achievement of the Government's social and economic objectives;
(ii)   increase the commercial orientation and efficiency of the
entities in the telecommunications sector;
(iii)   improve service quality and TELKOM's productivity through
increased network automation, use of modern technologies,



- 16 -
improvement of organization and management, and increased staff
training; and
(iv)   promote sound domestic construction, consulting aad, where
economically feasible, manufacturing industries to support the
telecommunications sector.
Xev Sector Issues
2.33      To successfully meet these challenges the following key sector
issues need to be addressed: (i) How can the massive investments, required to
meet the needs of modern businesses as well as to improve access to service in
both urban and rural areas be funded? (ii) How can Indonesia most effectively
access best management and operational practices? (iii) How should competition
policy be introduced? and (iv) What would be the most effuctive institutional
framework to promote system efficiency and responsiveness?
2.34      Investment and Financing.  TELKOM's 1992-1996 investment program
(para. 4.1) is the maximum feasible given the financial resources and
implementation capacity. However, it falls short of what is needed to meet
outstanding applications for telephone lines, satisfy new demand forecast to
arise in the period and initial investment for the following period.
Traditional project financing from World Bank, Asian Development Bank and
bilateral sources as well as TELKOM's internally generated funds will not be
adequate to accelerate expansion and modernization to meet all demand by 2000.
Hence, GOI/TELKOM need to actively consider complementary approaches to bring
private sector capital into the sector (para. 2.38).
2.35      Management and Operational Practices:  To provide needed operational
autonomy and improved incentives for efficient and effective management, GOI
in September 1991 converted PERUMTEL from PERUM to PERSERO (i.e. to a limited
liability company). This was a very important milestone in the
commercialization of the sector. With this conversion, the new company, PT.
TELKOM has the mandate to adopt a commercial (business-oriented) approach and
pursue private sector equity participation in accordance with the Presidential
Decree No. 55. In a similar vein, in order to improve its institutional
efficiency and effectiveness, TELKOM has recognized the need to decentralize
operations and management from headquarters to the regional offices and
concentrate strategic decision-making and planning, possibly under a holding
company structure. This will enable TELKOM's regions to progressively develop
into independent operating companies with little need for day-to-day support
from headquarters. Such a structure would provide a basis for comparison of
performance in terms of efficiency and service quality. Given the need for
great improvements in performance, the ability to make such comparisons is
likely to be of considerable value to TELKOM's management. In the longer term
each of the regional operators may be authorized to enter into joint venture
with reputed foreign operating companies to improve their performance and
attract foreign capital. A key objective of the proposed project is to assist
TELKOM to operate effectively and efficiently as a market-oriented company.
Successful implementation of these massive organizational changes will require
substantial technical assistance which will be supported by the proposed
project (para. 4.9(a and b)).



- 17 -
2.36      ComRetition and Private Sector Participation:  TELKOM presently
faces virtually no competition in the provision of telecommunications services
and, therefore, has not been pressed to improve performance. The experience
of other countries has confirmed the potential and power of competitive
markets (Annex 8). Recognizing the merits of competition the GOI is keen on
using competition as a key policy tool to promote efficiency and innovation.
It has already introduced competition in the provision of terminal
equipment,./ telecommunication service retail shop (WARTEL) and non-basic
services. GOI is now considering creating a second carrier, possibly with
private equity participation of a reputed foreign telecommunications operator
to provide competitive radio-based telecommunications services. There are
several ways of designing and implementing the second carrier which should be
reviewed. In response to GOI's request, the Bank is supporting through the
Third Telecommunications Project analytical work to assess the role of the
second carrier, and to prepara business plan.
2.37      There are many ways to increase private investment in the
telecommunications sector, including authorizing increased (privately
financed) competition, build/transfer (B/T) revenue-sharing schemes, issue of
debt or equity securities by TELKOM to private investors, joint ventures with
private investors or full privatization. At present there are significant
hurdles to a full privatization. Because of constitutional, political and
national security considerations, GOI has decided to keep TELKOM in the public
sector. However, actions have already been taken in several of the other
modalities. Both terminal equipment and non-basic services can be provided by
the private sector in competition with TELKOM. Furthermore, revenue sharing
agreements between TELKOM and private investors are in place for two cellular
telephone systems, a VSAT services and three local telephone network expansion
projects for about 450,000 lines.
2.38      TELKOM is actively pursuing additional sizeable infusions of private
capital through consideration of the following: (a) issuing bonds; (b)
requiring new subscribers to buy subscriber bonds; (c) joint ventures; and
(d) large-scale revenue sharing (B/T) schemes. The B/T local network
expansion projects referred to above have not been entirely successful and
there are some doubts about the advisability of this kind of off-balance sheet
financing. The best prospects for large-scale private investments in the
sector leading to improved sector performance are believed to be joint
ventures with highly credible foreign telephone companies. The merits of the
different approaches to the mega-financing of TELKOM's investment program is
to be the subject of a study and comparative analysis, financed by the Bank
under the Technical Assistance Project for Public and Private provision of
Infrastructure (Loan 3385-IND).
2.39      The proposed project would focus on strengthening TELKOM's
organization and management with the central objective of improving its
productivity and efficiency and of restructuring it into a holding company
j/   Terminal equipment includes telephones, telex, facsimile, private
automatic branch exchange (PABK).



- 18 -
with regional subsidiaries (para. 2.35). This would allow TELKOM to offer
shares to the public and to form joint ventures with the participation of
foreign carriers. But these reforms cannot take place in a regulatory vacuum
and hence another objective of the proposed project is to develop Government's
capabilit.y to efficiently manage the desired sector optimization process.
This is crucial. Although the Telecommunications Law was amended in 1989 to
allow private sector entry in the non-basic services areas, it has not
attracted investors because of cumbersome licensing arrangements and other
barriers for private sector entry, including availability of clear guidelines.
2.40      At this time, telecommunications policy consultants engaged under
the Third Telecommunications Project are reviewing with the GOI the following
measures to introduce limited competition and private sector participation:
(a) Establishing TELKOM as a holding company with five subsidiaries:
(i) Three regional companies in joint venture with foreign
operating companies;
(ii)  A national long distance operating company, possibly also as a
joint venture operation similar to the regional approach; and
(iii)  A cellular telephone company.
(b)  Establishing a new, majority Government-owned public
telecommunications carrier (independent from TELKOH) authorized to:
(i) operate all domestic satellite; and (ii) wireless based services
in the local area including cellular; and
(c)  Ensuring that the provision of value added services and customer
premises equipment are fully opened to the private sector.
2.41      During negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that it will, by
June 30, 1993, prepare and subsequently implement, a timebound action plan to
address structural issues in the telecommunications sector, inter alia, aimed
at promoting competition and participation of the private sector (para. 4.26
(a)).
2.42      Institutional Framework:  As TELKOM takes on a more commercial
orientation and competition is introduced, effective regulation needs to be
put in place, in particular, to ensure that TELKOM does not abuse the monopoly
market-power it derives from control of network facilities. Such a regulatory
framework should comprehensively address, inter alia, the following issues;
(a)  which enterprises will be permitted to compete in which market
segments and when;
(b)  how franchises and licenses (including for radio spectrum) will be
awarded; and
(c)  the obligations of TELKOM and other carriers to provide services,
and to inter-connect, and obligations with respect to quality of



- 19 -
services, tariffs, standards, protocols and interfaces, anti-
competitive activities, monitoring and dispute resolution.
2.43      Telecommunications Users:  Currently, there are no formal
institutions that represent users' interest in the telecommunications sector.
Development of this kind of association is an important part of the process of
creating a constituency for effective regulation and of making TELKOM a user
oriented commercial enterprise. One step towards user orientation was the
creation by TELKOM of a Special Customer Service Group (CSG) (para. 2.15) to
deal with corporate customers, to identify their needs and finds ways to meet
them rapidly and efficiently. A program to further develop such an approach
is part of the agreed Action Plan (para. 4.30).



- 20 -
III. THE BANK'S PAST EXPERIENCE AND ROLE
Past Experience
3.1       Background:  The proposed project constitutes a strategic
progression in the Bank's support to help GOI and TELKOM's management to
address sector constraints (para. 2.34). The Bank's association with the
telecommunications sector in Indonesia started in 1971 with a credit of $12.8
million (Credit 210-IND). The main objectives of that project were to
(a) transfer telecommunications operations from a government department to a
separate operating entity, PERUMTEL; and (b) help put in place procedures and
systems for PERUMTEL to manage its then small-scale operations, and to
rehabilitate and expand the network. The physical component was completed
successfully in 1976, but except for establishing PERUMTEL as a separate
government owned corporation, no significant institutional progress was
achieved as such a progress would require continued efforts through a series
of well coordinated operations (para. 3.6). The project was to be followed by
a second operation that was processed in 1973 but dropped after negotiations
due to disagreement between the Bank and the GOI over (a) the issues related
to GOI's decision to acquire a domestic telecommunication satellite; and
(b) adjustments needed for telecommunications tariffs. Telecommunications in
Indonesia were subsequently developed using domestic funds and with bilateral
assistance from Belgium, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, the
Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, USA and some other donors. Although the many
positive contributions by individual donor countries to capacity building in
Indonesia should be recognized, sector performance fell short of requirements
because, principally, of a lack of a consistent and coherent global strategy.
3.2       Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2757-IND):  In 1984 dialogue was
resumed and subsequently, the GOI requested renewed Bank assistance for the
sector. The Bank responded with a technical assistance telecommunications
project (Loan 2757-IND for $14.5 million, approved in October 1986) with the
objectives of (a) improving PERUMTEL's planning and design of cable networks,
procurement systems and practices, project implementation, and reporting and
monitoring systems; (b) computerizing financial management information
systems; and (c) increasing PERUMTEL's capability to formulate and review
tariffs. The project closed on December 31, 1990 as scheduled and the project
completion report (No. 10247) was completed in December 1991.
3.3       This TA project has achieved all its objectives.  With the
strategies developed for project implementation and procurement, PERUNTEL's
capability has been enhanced to carry out an investment program of about
US$600 million per year and connect over 300,000 new customers annually, which
represents a fivefold increase in its implementation capability compared to
the performance during the last five-year (1984-1989) development plan
(Repelita IV). Furthermore, the introduction of the integrated system
approach and competitive procurement systems introduced have not only resulted
in significantly lowering unit network expansion costs but also ensured that
new customers are promptly connected when facilities become available.
Consequently, the previous problems of nonperforming assets and associated
financial losses have been significantly reduced. By encouraging the



- 21 -
association of local consulting companies with foreign consultants, the
project paved the way to establish a reasonable base for development of
Indonesian telecommunication consulting firms to support the sector. Use of
prequalification to select competent contractors and introduction of large
scale single-responsibility contracting has promoted the association of
domestic contractors with foreign companies that can provide project
construction expertise and train local workers, thereby developing domestic
construction capacity. Improvement in financial MIS is helping TELKOM
management to use financial data in the efficient management of its operations
and, more importantly to complete its audit reports in a timely manner
(para. 2.23). With regard to the tariffs review, TELKOM has now a good basic
capability to assess and develop tariffs.
3.4       Sector Studv.  Before responding to GOI's request for Bank financing
of PERUMTEL's on-going investment programs, the Bank conducted a detailed
assessment of Indonesian's telecommunications sector, identifying policy
options and analyzing investment priorities to provide a framework for
technical assistance and advice to GOI on institutional aspects. The results
were published in report No. 7842-INS, June 1990. The Sector Study assessed
the need for policy, legislative, regulatory and further institutional
reforms, and developed a package of actionable proposals involving sector
management and policies, investment, procurement, financial and institutional
development to enhance productivity and support the development of the sector.
3.5       Third Telecommunications Proiect.  The review of this sector study
with GOI led to an agreement between the GOI and the Bank to implement a
series of measures to improve sector management and to expand PERUMTEL's
network and services. The Third Telecommunications project was approved in
March 1990 to implement these measures. The project is progressing
satisfactorily and the Government has initiated a number of key sector reforms
by: (a) allowing competition in the provision of value-added services, paging
and customer premises equipment; (b) permitting the private sector entry under
revenue sharing schemes with TELKOM; and (c) initiating studies to further
strengthen GOI's capabilities to effectively manage the sector. However,
given the rapid international changes in telecommunications sector
organization and continued important technological developments (particularly
the rapidly declining unit costs of digital electronics, radio and optical
telecommunications systems), GOI recognizes the need for further reforms to
achieve its more ambitious development objectives for the sector (para. 2.33).
These objectives will be supported under the proposed Fourth Telecommunica-
tions Project.
Lecsons Learned
3.6       The lessons learned through Bank operations in the telecommunica-
tions sector Indonesia, as reflected in PPAR No. 1646, dated June 22, 1977 and
PCR No. 10247 of December 1991, and from experience in other developing
countries are that: (a) when underpinned by comprehensive sector surveys,
project interventions receive greater commitment by borrowers and donors and
their implementation proceeds smoothly; (b) an integrated systems approach
should be adopted to ensure that all project components are tightly
coordinated; (c) financing plans should be firmed up prior to negotiations;



- 22 -
(d) objectives for institutional building should be pursued in a long-term
horizon through repeater projects to achieve major results; (e) advance
actions prior to Board presentation should be initiated by the implementing
agency in respect of selecting consultants, prequalifying bidders, finalizing
bid evaluation; and (f) project implementation units with adequate authority
and competent staff should be established prior to project appraisal. These
lessons have been incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.7       The Government recognizes the challenges to harness fully the
benefits of advanced technology and modern operating practices to improve
sector performance. Based on the success of past cooperation, GOI has
requested the Bank to (i) assist in the design of its sector optimization
program and in implementing it, (ii) make available to Indonesia the benefit
of similar experience and best practices from other countries and (iii) to
take the lead role in coordinating cofinancing from donors to ensure that
future sector development proceeds in an integrated and cost-effective manner.
3.8       The Bank strategy is to engage user groups, GOI and TELKOM in a
continuing dialogue to develop competition policies and reform programs that
are consistent with Indonesia's economic and political conditions and with
world market outlooks. To this end a seminar was held in December 1991 in
Indonesia. It focused on international experience in using competition to
accelerate telecom sector development and promote private sector participation
as well as on developing appropriate regulatory mechanisms. This seminar will
be followed up with a workshop in September 1992 to agree on modalities to
implement the conclusions of the seminar and the findings of the sector
restructuring options study to be completed by May 1992. The Fourth Telecom
Project is expected to be used as a vehicle to operationalize the agreed
actions (para. 2.41).



- 23 -
IV. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Telecommunications Investment Program
4.1       TELKOM's FY 92-96 investment program comprises the following:
(a) ongoing works;
(b) proposed Fourth Telecommunications Project; and
(c) future works.
The total investments under this program are estimated at Rp. 7,610 billion
(US$3,820 million) with a foreign component of Rp. 3,772 billion (US$1,893
million). The investments under the different components of the program and
annual investments in during FY92 to FY96, are given in Annex 9.
4.2       Ongoing works comprise of:  (a) the Bank's Third Telecommunications
Project and (b) other projects which are: (i) ADB's Telecommunications
Project; (ii) local telephone network; and (iii) long distance microwave
network, remote and rural area network projects supported by Germany, France,
Japan, and Netherlands respectively. Progress on implementation of the
ongoing works is satisfactory. Financing for ongoing works is secured and
actions are underway to secure financing for the proposed project. The
mission reviewed the composition of the investment program and the methodology
for determining it and was satisfied that the program was justified to meet
growing demand (para. 2.12) and for ensuring a balanced development of
Indonesia's telecommunications facilities. Foreign exchange financing for
future works is still to be arranged, but any delay in execution of those
works will not affect the implementation or the viability of the proposed
project.
4.3       To ensure satisfactory implementation of TELKOM's future investment
program, of which the Bank project forms one part, both GOI and TELKON have
agreed that:
(a) on or before November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15,
1992, and thereafter until the completion of the Project, TELKOM
will (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, its corporate plan, institutional development plans and
investment program (including Revenue Sharing Arrangements) for the
following fiscal year; and thereafter, taking 'nto account the
Bank's comments, if any, carry out such plans and (ii) review and,
if required, revise with prior concurrence of the Bank, the TELKOM
Fiscal Years 1992-1996 Investment Program;
(b) GOI will ensure that TELKOM will have access to adequate funds to
finance the investments agreed with the Bank; and
(c) TELKOM will, by November 15, 1993, prepare and furnish to the Bank
its procurement practices and procedures to be followed for



- 24 -
procurement of goods and services required by TELKOM in the carrying
out of its operations (except for goods and services financed from
the Loan) and thereafter incorporate Bank's comments and adapt such
guidelines to ensure least cost investments.
Prolect Obiectives
4.4       The project has two main objectives:  (a) to improve sector
performance by promoting a regulatory regime conducive to competition in the
provision of telecommunication services; and (b) to meet the growing demand
for telecommunications services by enhancing the quality of TELKOH's service,
effective utilization of existing facilities, increasing system efficiency and
modernizing and expanding the networks.
Proiect Description
4.5       The proposed project which will be partly financed by the Bank is a
self-contained, balanced and integrated package of high priority works to
support TELKOM's 1992-1996 investment program. Specific components of the
project are outlined below. Full details of the project and the source of
financing are given in Annex 10 and illustrated in Maps No. 23237 and 23404.
The project includes the following components:
(a)  establishment of an environment for the functioning of competitive
markets. This will include support for MTPT to develop effective,
transparent regulatory processes, and to train XUPT staff;
(b) strengthening the capacity of the MTPT to design, assess and
implement a consistent set of sector policies including a review of
telecommunications tariffs and planning for a second domestic
telecommunications operator.
(c) further institutional capacity building for TELKOM comprising:
(i) a management and professional human resource development
program using a cooperative program of academic training at
foreign universities and working internships in selected fields
at developed telecommunications entities;
(ii) development and implementation of the ope.rational and
managerial decentralization program;
(iii) enhancement of TELKOM's capability in operational performance,
project design, engineering, implementaticn and supervision;
(iv) upgrading accounting and financial policies, systems and
procedures and related computerization requirements; and
(d) Support for TELKOM's 1992-1996 investment program in Java, Bali,
Nusatenggara, Kalimantan and Sulawesi which would comprise:



- 25 -
(i) rehabilitation of existing switching equipment, local cable
network, customer distribution network, interexchange network,
including the provision of spare parts, modules, tools and test
equipment to repair and refurbish them as well as software
packages to improve operational efficiency and enhance traffic
handling capacity;
(ii) installation of switching equipment, associated customer
distribution network and customer terminal equipment (including
20,000 pay phones) to connect about 600,000 new customer;
(iii) installation of fiber optic cable and microwave transmission
facilities to provide interexchange junction facilities in the
Jabotabek area.
(iv) installation of terrestrial microwave transmission facilities
(a) Java-Bali (phase I), (b) Bali-Nusatenggara phase II,
(c) Trans-Sulawesi phase II and (d) cross Kalimanten phase II
to improve long distance direct-dialling service quality;
(v) establishment of a modern network management system to improve
network supervision and to improve traffic monitoring and
management; and
(vi) improvement of the directory enquiry system.
Technical Assistance
4.6       The project provides for technical assistance to improve the
operational performance of TELKOM as well as to ensure timely implementation
of the physical components of the project. Technical assistance to be
provided under the project builds on the foundations laid under
Telecommunications Technical Assistance Project and the Third
Telecommunications Project. These projects have progressed satisfactorily and
have improved selected aspects of TELKOM's internal organization and
management (paras. 3.2 to 3.5). Nevertheless, it will take several more
years, with consultants focusing on intensive training efforts designed to
reach all sectors and professional levels of TELKOM's staff, before TELKOM
becomes a modern, efficient, well-run business. The following paragraphs
provide the details of the technical assistance supported under the proposed
project.
(a) NTPT
4.7       The GOI's regulation of the sector has mainly operated through its
ownership of TELKOM and Indosat, radio licensing, standard setting,
ministerial control of tariff changes and BAPPENAS control of foreign exchange
allocations to state-owned enterprises. Regulatory mechanisms for control of
the sector are still in their infancy. As telecommunications technology
continues to expand the diversity and reduce the costs of telecommunications
services, some increasing levels of competition appears inevitable as well as



- 26 -
necessary for improved sector performance. In turn, this requires a much
stronger policy and regulatory capacity in MTPT. In this context, the project
will provide technical assistance to MTPT to:
(a) build its capacity to develop and assess telecommunications
policies, in particular with respect to network competition,
strategy for the development of cellular and other wireless public
telecommunications systems, microwave licensing and authorizations
for other telecommunications facilities;
(b) develop an agenda for regulatory activities, in part by assisting in
the organization of one or more users' conferences and the
preparation, if necessary, of public consultation documents;
(c) assess, recommend and implement regulatory action on priority
matters that will include issues associated with network
interconnection, value-added service (including access to leased
lines), customer premises equipment (including the pricing of
cellular terminals), and radio licensing policy;
(d) undertake a comprehensive analysis of TELKOM and Indosat tariffs
with respect to costs, funds flow, demand factors, limited network
capacity, international comparators and other relevant factors;
assess and recommend an action plan to improve tariff structures for
TELKOM and Indosat; and assess and recommend processes for periodic
tariff rebalancing mechanisms; and
(e) train selected MTPT staff.
4.8       Consultants are expected to be appointed by January 1, 1993.  About
60 person-months will be required for thes,e tasks.
(b) TELSOM
4.9       Technical assistance for TELKOM includes:
ia) Given that TELKOM is still acutely short of skilled and capable
staff, technical assistance is provided under the project for TELKOM
to develop full in-house capabilities in all aspects of operations
(through on-the-job training and teaming with consultants) so as to
reduce gradually reliance on foreign expertise. The managerial
development program will provide a total of 1,700 staff-months of
training for about 60 middle and senior managers during 1993-1996.
Two to three-year fellowships for MBA and MSC levels will use a
combined program of academic training at foreign universities and
working internships in selected fields at selected
telecommunications entities.
(b) The need for technical assistance to support TELKOM to implement
successfully the decentralization program was discussed in
(para. 2.20). Terms of reference, agreed with TELKOM are presented
in Annex 11. The consultants are expected to be appointed by
October 31, 1992. About 160 person-months will be required for the
services; and



- 27 -
(c) The existing methods of manual monitoring and control of local and
long distance networks in Indonesia are inadequate to exploit the
full potential of the modern systems currently under installation.
To address this situation TELKOM will establish Integrated Network
Management Systems (IMS) for monitoring the performance of the local
and long distance network and providing a real time surveillance and
control over network components so as to minimize disruption to
service during periods of traffic overloads or facility failures.
Terms of reference agreed with TELKOM are presented in Annex 11.
The consultants are expected to be appointed by October 31, 1992.
About 100 person-months will be required for the services.
(d) Technical assistance will be needed to further improve and
strengthen the accounting systems and financial function
(para. 2.29). A team of experts in cost accounting and management,
and treasury management, will be employed under the proposed project
to assist TELKOM in reviewing and recommending the necessary
policies, systems and procedures as well as the appropriate
organization setup to carryout these functions. The team will also
be required to assist TELKOM in implementing their recommendations.
An important task of the experts would be to carryout a diagnostic
study to identify the staffing needs, preparing the necessary
training programs and providing training. Terms of reference for
the experts is attached in Annex 11. The consultants are expected
to be appointed by October 31, 1992. About 96 person-months will be
required for the services.
(e) TELKOM has competent engineers to undertake the engineering design
and prepare bid documents for the project. However, TELKOM's
requirements for rehabilitation and expansion of the
telecommunications facilities are large and growing quickly.
Therefore, TELKOM's project management capabilities need to be
supplemented by the provision of technical assistance to help it
carry out these tasks. Some 400 expatriate and 500 local consultant
staff-months of services will be provided through the implementation
period. Consultant assistance would focus on (a) contract
finalization; (b) postcontract engineering works; (c) coordination
of implementation of different physical components of the project,
and (d) physical project management.
4.10      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOI and TELKOM by
November 15, 1992 would furnish to the Bank for review a detailed training
program identifying the staff to be trained, areas of training, schedules and
locations and that it will implement the approved training commencing
September 1, 1993, and a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, to appoint the
above consultants was also discussed and agreed (para. 4.26(c)).
Project Costs
4.11      The total cost of the project is estimated at Rp 2,449 billion
(US$1,229 million equivalent), with a foreign component both direct and



- 28 -
indirect of Rp 1,607 billion (US$806.9 million equivalent). Detailed project
costs are given in Annex 9 and summarized in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSIi
BY ITEMS                      LOCAL    FOREIGN         TOTAL      LOCAL    FOREIGN        TOTAL
-------  (Rp MILLION) -- ---   ------  (US$ MILLION) -------
1.   Switching Equipment                       72.9       389.8        462.7       36.6       195.7       232.3
-   Expansion                            81.3        190.2        271.5      40.8        95.5        136.3
- Rehabilitation
2.   Outside Plant Network (OPN)
-   Expansion                           683.8       234.9         918.7     343.3       117.9        461.2
-   Rehabilitation                       35.9         19.5         55.4      18.0         9.8         27.8
3.   Transmission
-   Expansion                            31.2       207.0         238.2      15.7       103.9        119.6
-   Rehabilitation                       27.4         72.7        100.1      13.8        36.5         50.3
4.   Junction Network
-   Expansion                            16.7         51.2         67.9       8.4        25.7         34.1
5.   Computer Support System                   11.4        69.7         81.1        5.7        35.0        40.7
6.   Spare Parts, Tools & Test
Equipment                            12.2        33.9          46.0       6.1        17.C         23.1
7.   Technical Assistance
(i)    Capacity building
- HTPT                            1.3          2.4          3.7       0.6         1.2          1.8
- TELKOM                          1.0          6.0          7.0       0.5         3.0          3.5
(ii)   Training
- MTPT                            0.4          1.6          2.0       0.2         0.8          1.0
- TELKOM                          1.2          3.0          4.2       0.6         1.5          2.1
(iii) Project Implementation
Support                            5.1        15.5         20.6        2.5         7.8        10.3
Total Bass Cost                         981.7    1.297.4       2,279.1      492.8       651.3     1,144.1
ContingenCieS
Physical                                49.1         28.3         77.4      24.6        14.2         38.8
Price                                  77.4        14.7         92.1       38.6         7.4        46.2
Total Project Cost LA                 1,108.2    1.340.4       2.44.86      556.2       67Z.9     1J229.1
Interest during construction Lk               152.0        94.8        246.8       76.3        47.6       123.9
Total FinancinR Reauired              1.260.2    1.435.2       2.695.4      632.5       720.5     1,353.0
LI   TELKOM is exempted from duties and taxes on imported items.  Local costs include VAT and other
taxes estimated to be about $111.8 million equivalent.
/b   Interest during construction is calculated by applying the interest rates of 7.731 on Bank, 3.5  on
USA (Exim Bank), Netherlands (ABN-Amre Bank) and Spanish. 2.5X on Japanese; 7S average on XSW; and
5.4Z average on French loans, plus the spread applicable to the onlending of each loan to TELKDM,
to the average amount expected to be outstanding in each year of construction and by adding
commitment fees on the average undrawn amount of the loans.



- 29 -
4.12      The project cost estimate was prepared by TELKOM with the assistance
of consultants. The estimates have been prepared on the basis of contracts of
goods and works with a detailed breakdown into quantities and rates where
applicable, and based on price quotations recently obtained by TELKOM for
similar works in Indonesia and experience in other countries. For technical
assistance, average staff-month rates for similar assignments in Indonesia and
other developing countries have been used. Except for a value added tax of
ten percent of total cost, the cost estimates are net of duties and taxes for
imported items since TELKOM is exempt from them.
4.13      C2ntinge_ncie.  Base prices are at December 1991 levels.  Physical
contingencies Pre based on 5 percent for equipment, 10 percent for services
and civil works. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on projected
increases of 3.7 percent p.a. in 1992, and each year thereafter. Price
contingencies for local costs are based on projected price increases of 6.0
percent in 1992, and each year thereafter.
Project Financino and Terms
4.14      The foreign costs of the project are expected to be financed on a
parallel basis by the Bank, France (Government and Credit Lyonnais), Federal
Republic of Germany (KfW), Japan (Sumitomo Corporation and OECF), Netherlands
(ABN-Amro Bank), Spain and USA (Exim Bank) as detailed in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
LOCAL          FOREIGN          TOTAL    X
-            US$ MILLION----------       OF
TOTAL
TELKOM COMPONENT
Bank - IBRD                          134.0          241.0         375.0   28.2
FRG (KfW)                              -             71.0          71.0    5.0
France/Credit Lyonnais                  -            52.0          52.0    4.0
Japan (Sumitomo Corp./OECF)             -           100.0         100.0    7.0
Netherlands (ABN-Amro Bank)             -            84.0          84.0    6.0
Spain                                  -             50.0          50.0    3.7
USA (Exim Bank)                         -            75.0          75.0    6.0
TELKOM                               497.4           47.5         544.9   40.0
GOI                                    1.1            -             1.1    0.;
Total                            632.5          720.5       1.353.0  100.0
4.15      The Bank would partially finance outs'de plant and microwave system
in Kalimantan and fully finance technical assistance (which includes
consultancy and training). In addition, the Bank would partially finance the
computer systems for operations and fully finance, tools, test equipment and



- 30 -
spares to effectively use the existing facilities. The loan of US$71.0
million equivalent from FRG (KFW) will finance 139,50C line units of switching
equipment and remote area transmission equipment. The US$52.0 million
equivalent loan from France and credit Lyonnais will finance the cost of (i)
the backbone transmission system in Bali and East Nusatenggara (US$24.5
million); (ii) Trans-Sulawesi microwave system Phase II (US$10.0 million); and
(iii) expansion of Java-Bali digital microwave transmission systems (US$17.5
million). The loan of US$100.0 million equivalent from Japan ($71.5 million
from Sumitomo Corporation and $28.5 million from OECF) will finance 267,000
line units of switching equipment mainly for exchanges outside Jakarta and the
optical fibre transmission network to carry the interexchange traffic in the
Jabotabek area. Funding from ABN-AMRO Bank, Netherlands (US$84.0 million
equivalent) and Exim Bank, USA (US$60.0 million), already effective, and Spain
(US$50.0 million) will finance 339,000 line units of the switching equipment
for local and tandem exchanges mainly in Jakarta and Surabaya. In addition,
funding from Exim Bank, USA (US$15.0 million), already effective will finance
computerized network management systems. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that it will obtain not later than January 31,
1993 the foreign exchange financing from Germany and Spain and not later than
June 30, 1993 from France or other sources on reasonable terms to complete the
project in accordance with the implementation program.
4.16      The proposed Bank loan would finance 46% of the foreign cost of the
project (28% of the total financing requirement). The Bank loan would be
provided to the GOI for 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, and
US$373 million of the proposed Bank loan will be on-lent to TELKOM under a
subsidiary loan agreement (SLA) agreed during negotiations. The signing of
the SLA is a condition of loan effectiveness. The on-lending will be at a
variable interest rate pegged to Bank Indonesia's (BI) three-month domestic
money market certificate (Sertifikat Bank Indonesia -- SBI) plus one percent.
The rate would be adjusted on January 1 and July 1 of each year, commencing on
July 1, 1992, and calculated based on the average of SBI three-month maturity
quotations during the preceding six months; provided, however, that the
interest on the Subsidiary Loan for the period from the date of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement through December 31, 1992, shall be determined on the basis of
the average of the per annum interest rate of SBI three-month maturity
quotations during the six months preceding July 1, 1992; provided further that
on July 1 of each year commencing on July 1, 1993, the Government and the Bank
shall review the above-mentioned basis for determining that the on-lending
interest rate under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement reflects the commercial cost
of borrowing to TELKOM. The government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement
4.17      Goods and Works.  All goods and works to be funded under the Bank
loan will be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines, except for items totalling US$17 million
covering spares, software, rehabilitation of existing equipment, test
equipment and tools will be procured by limited international bidding on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from suppliers of
eauipment currently operating in TELKOM's network.



- 31 -
4.1t      A total of nine contracts proposed for Bank financing is indicated
in the procurement schedule in Annex 12. In the procurement of equipment
under ICB, domestic manufacturers would be eligible for a preference in bid
evaluation of either 15 percent or the import duty whichever is lower. All
bidding packages for contracts estimated to cost over US$1,000,000 equivalent
for goods and all consultancy services and fellowship contracts financed by
the Bank loan would be subject to the Bank's prior reviews. This will cover
over 95 percent of total value of the Bank-financed contracts. Procurement of
goods and services financed by co-financiers would be in accordance to co-
financiers' procurement guidelines. All goods and services to be procured
with TELECOM's own internal resources will be through lcc-al competitive
bidding following the government regulations which are satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.19      Technical Assistance and Consultancy.  Selection of consultants and
training services which will be following Bank guidelines are:
(a) management training, $3.5 million (para. 4.7 (e) and 4.9 (a)) which
will be arranged through direct negotiations with internationally
recognized entities in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  selection of consultants for all assignments will be from a short
list of at least three firms or experts for each assignment agreed
by the Bank and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.



- 32 -
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
------------------ US$ million  La --------------
ICB        Other /b        NBF        Total
Switching Equipment                              -       368.3 /c    368.3
Outside Plant Network          566.6             -          -         566.6
(308.3)                                (308.3)
Telecommunications              12.0            23.0     192.0 /c    227.0
Equipment                     (10.0)          (17.0)                 (27.0)
Computer Systems                26.2             -        14.8 /c      41.0
(20.2)                                 (20.2)
Technical Assistance             -              26.2        -          26.2
(19.5)                 (19.5)
Total                    604.8            49.2      575.1      1.229.1
(338.5)         (36.5)    (-)          (375.0)
,'a Includes contingencies. Numbers in parentheses represents the amounts to
be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
Lk For equipment, Limited International Bidding and, for consultants, in
accordance with Bank guidelines on the use of consultants.
_c (N.B.F.) Non-Bank Financed items following procedures of the cofinanciers.
4.20      Advance Procurement Action.  To ensure timely project
implementation, TELKOM has initiated advance procurement actions to: (a)
issue request for proposals for consultants for (i) construction supervision
of project works, and (ii) construction management, design and planning future
development works; (b) announce bids for outside plant works, Phase I; and (c)
prequalify contractors for outside plant work, Phase II.
Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed loan would be as
follows:
(a) 100X of foreign expenditures (CIF) of directly imported goods, 100X
of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) of locally manufactured
goods, and 65X of local expenditures for other locally procured
items; and
(b) 100X of expenditures for consultants and training.



- 33 -
4.22      Table 4.4 shows the category of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan, the allocation of the amounts of the loan to each
category and the percentage of expenditure for items to be financed in each
category. No disbursements will be made for expenditures incurred prior to
the loan signing. Withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of
US$100,000 equivalent or more, prior to its submission to the Bank. Annex 13
gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed loan. Disbursements under
this loan, like the Loan for the Third Telecommunications Project, is expected
to be faster than the average Bank profile in Indonesia because of advance
procurement arrangements initiated for major components of the project
(para. 4.20). Although physical construction of the project would be
completed by end 1996, the implementation of all aspects would be completed by
December 31, 1997. The closing date of the Bank loan would be December 31,
1998.
4.23      SRecial Account.  In order to facilitate disbursements, a special
account for MTPT will be opened in Bank Indonesia by the Ministry of Finance.
The accounts would be maintained in US dollars and an initial deposit of
US$300,000 (equivalent to four months estimated average eligible expenditures)
would be made to this account to finance expenditures under category 4(a) and
5(a) (Table 4.4). However, all consultant contracts and fellowship programs
will be subject to prior review by the Bank in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines (para. 4.19).
Implementation
4.24      Contracting for packages of outside plant for the proposed project
will be on a single-responsibility basis as followed in the Third
Telecommunications project. In view of its total magnitude, the volume of
outside plant construction has been divided into three packages to be
implemented in two phases. Bids for construction of Phase I, including
subscriber connections, cleared by the Bank in August 1991, was announced in
October 1991 to the 15 prequalified contractors. Phase II will be tendered by
July 1992 to prequalified companies to be selected by June 1992, following
Bank guidelines. Other components of the project, namely, switching
equipment, and microwave radio systems will be installed by the respective
contractors in accordance with the implementation schedule (para. 4.27).
4.25      Project ImRlementation Unit.  To ensure effective project
management, track emerging issues and address them in a timely way, TELKOM has
established a project implementation unit (PIU) for the proposed project
headed by a Project Director, with overall responsibility for project
implementation, reporting to the Board of Director. The unit head and key
staff members have already been appointed. The PIU will be given adequate
financial and administrative autonomy to enable it to discharge its
responsibilities effectively, have its own accounting, procurement, transport,
land acquisition, administrative and technical sections, and keep separate and
distinct project accounts for the Bank project as a whole as well as its
individual components. The critical path method will be used to coordinate
implementation of the project in order to minimize the level of non-performing



- 34 -
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENT OF PROPOSED LOAN
Amount of the
loan allocated
(expressed in US         X of expenditures
Category               dollar equivalent)         to be financed
(1)  Outside plant                 289.8           100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) 65% of local
expenditures for items
procured locally.
(2)  Telecommunications              27.0          100% of foreign
equipment, materials,                         expenditures, 100% of
and software excluding                        local expenditures (ex-
switching equipment                           factory cost) and 65% of
local expenditures for
items procured locally
(3)  Computer systems,               20.2          100% of foreign
including service                             expenditures, 100% of
arrangements                                  local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 65% of
local expenditures for
items procured locally
(4) Consultancy
(a) MTPT                        2.0           100%
(b) TELKOM                     14.0           100%
(5) Training
(a) MTPT                        1.0
100%
(b) TELKOM                      2.5
(6)  Unallocated                     18.5
Total                        375.0
The term "Outside Plant" means the supply, delivery, installation and commis-
sioning and supervision of local telephone network, pulse code modulation
cable, optical fiber cable, transmission equipment (inclusive of microwave
equipment), subscriber connections (inclusive of house-wiring and telephone
set), and associated infrastructure.



- 35 -
investment. Bank-financed technical assistance (para. 4.9(e)) is provided to
assist the PIU in project implementation and supervision of the OSP
construction component. Based on experience gained in the implementation of
the ongoing third project, plans for decentralizing some of the functions of
this unit to the regions and the optimal set-up for undertaking investments on
a regional basis will be explored during the supervision of the project.
4.26      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOI and
TELKOM that:
(a)  GOI by June 30, 1993 will develop and review with the Bank a
timebound action plan to address the sector policy issues, promote
competition and further strengthen regulatory capabilities and
thereafter implement the recommendations agreed with the Bank
(para. 2.41).
(b)  TELKOM, based on final contracts to be concluded by October 31, 1992
for major project components will prepare, by the critical path
method, and furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1992, a master plan
for the implementation of the project for each of the eight regions
(para. 4.5(d)), satisfactory to the Bank, which would include
actions assigned to relevant government agencies and TELKOM
management; and thereafter implement the said plan as approved by
the Bank.
(c)  TELKOM will appoint consultants in accordance with the agreed
timetable (para. 4.9) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank to assist in the implementation of items a, b, c and d(v)
(para. 4.5) of the proiect.
(d)  the Government and TELKOM will take all actions, including
allocation of necessary financial and administrative powers,
essential to enable the PIU to maintain the project implementation
schedule (para. 4.25);
(e)  TELKOM will maintain the PIU staffed with competent staff until
project completion (para. 4.25); and
4.27      Implementation Schedule.  Annex 14 shows the project implementation
schedule. It takes into account TELKOM's current limitations and, subject to
agreements in para. 4.26 is realistic. The project is expected to be
implemented fully by December 31, 1997.
4.28      Site Acquisition.  In view of the difficulties experienced in the
past wich the acquisition of sites for housing network facilities and rights
of way fir the cab'le routes, advance action were initiated for this project.
As a result TELKOM has acquired all the 87 building sites required for the
project.



- 36 -
Performance Monitoring
4.29      Performance indicators to monitor TELKOM's implementation of the
physical components of the investment program, the quality of service and the
financial performance are given in Annex 15. During negotiations, the
proposed performance targets for the years 1992 and 1993 were discussed and
agreed with TELKOM; further, assurances were obtained from TELKOM that the
indicative targets for the years 1994, 1995, 1996 and 1997 (shown in Annex 15)
will be reviewed and specific targets for each year agreed by them with the
Bank by November 15 of the preceding year.
4.30      An action plan (Annex 16) to monitor TELKOM's implementation of the
institutional strengthening components of the project were also discussed and
agreed during negotiations. These components include measures to improve
TELKOM's performance in respect of (a) accounting and financial management;
(b) operations; (c) human resource development; and (d) training of staff and
managers in management techniques and new technology.
Proiect.ReRortine. Accounts and Audits
4.31      The PIU will be required to prepare and submit a quarterly report in
an agreed format to the Bank on the status of the project. This report will
be the main instrument for monitoring project accomplishments and will include
the proposed pipeline of sub-projects, and implementation status of contracted
sub-projects. The PIU will maintain separate project accounts in a form
satisfactory to the Bank for annual audits. These accounts, including the
Special Account and SOEs will be wudited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and will include opinions on all expenditures including
those made against SOEs. In the case of SOEs, the audit report should contain
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals. The PIU will submit the audited accounts to
the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year to which
they relate commencing calendar year 1992.
Supervision Plan
4.32      Supervision of this project will focus upon a nvAbet of sector
optimization and institutional development activities. These measures will
include: (a) continuing the ongoing dialogue with GOI to implement
appropriate sector modernization and optimization to improve sector
performance and human resource development; (b) initiate discussion on
efficient usage of telephones through tariff rebalancing; (c) improving access
to telephone service through increased use of public pay phones and
telecommunication service retail shops; (d) improving emphasis on servicing
corporate customers through strengthened Customer Service Groups. Based on
past experience, front-end loading of supervision resources, particularly
during the first two years of project implementation, is necessary to resolve
basic physical implementation issues. Three missions annually for two years,
then two missions per year for the remainder of the project are foreseen as



- 37 -
adequate supervision for this project. The total estimated staff inputs are
(a) telecommunications regulation and policy specialist; (b) telecommunica-
tions engineer; (c) financial analyst; (d) organization and human resource
specialist; and (c) an MIS expert. A total of 80 staff weeks effort will be
required for effective supervision of this project.
Environment and Health Aspects
4.33      The proposed project will have no adverse environmental impact or
health impacts. Indeed, the net effect of the project is expected to be
positive on both counts since it will result in a substitution of
environmentally benign communications for environmentally damaging
transportation. In addition, it will improve marginally the delivery of
health services through better communications between health units and with
the population. However, given the volume of civil works related to the
installing of underground cables, there is likely to be some disruption to
vehicular traffic and pedestrians. This will be minimized by (a) planning and
phasing of construction works; and (b) including in construction contracts
clauses which require contractors to maintain vehicular and pedestrian flows.
No resettlement issues are expected.



- 38 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
PERUMTEL's Historical Financial Performance
5.1            PERUMTEL's audited and unaudited financial statements and
performance indicators for FY86-91 are provided in Annex 17.   As shown by the
indicators in Table 5.1, PERUMTEL's financial performance over FY86-91 period
remained satisfactory.
Table 5. 1: KEY HISTORICAL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICAICRS
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                1986       1987       1988       1989        1990       1991 /a
Profitability: (Rp Billion)
Operating Revenue a                         614.2       724.0       799.4      929.4      1,292.8   1,737.5
Less: Operating Expenses /c                 495.2       691.4       641.0      780.7      1,129.5   1,361.8
Not Operating Income                        119.0        32.6       158.5       148.7        163.2      375.8
Net Profit                                  134.2        83.5       111.7      103.4         129.5      187.0
Financial Ratios:
Operating Ratio                                 81X         951         801        84Z          87X        78X
Return on Assets (Av. NFA)                      26%          5X         181        151          12X        211
Return on Av. Equity                            27S         13S         llX        131          14X        21X
Current (Rp'000)
Telephone Revenue/Av. Main Line             836         893         896        958          1,108    1,341
Cash Op Costs/Av. Main Line Ld              560         526         460         506           631       675
Constant '90 Prices (Rp '000)
Telephone Revenue/Av. Main Line           1,215       1,158       1,064      1,035          1,108    1,289
Cash Op Costs/Av. Main Line Id              813         682         546        546            631       649
Net Internal Cash Generation
as Z of Av. 2 year Investments                  41S         50X         52Z        46Z          281        411
Debt Service Coverage                          3.4        4.8          4.6        3.8          2.1        2.3
Current Ratio                                  3.2         3.9        2.7         1.7          1.5        1.7
Account Receivable (Days)                       76          64          66         57           45          40
Debt/(Debt Equity)                              462         39S         432        432          462         542
La  Although PERUMTEL was converted to TELKQM on September 23, 1991, the financial statements
are for PERUMTEL for the whole fiscal year.
/b Tariffs were increased substantially effective October 1990.
/c Depreciation method used changed in 1987 from straight line to double declining.
/d Salaries were increased by an average of about 952 and 262 in 1990 and 1991. respectively.
5.2            Growth in the number of main lines, traffic growth in international
and domestic, improved revenue settlement on international traffic with
INDOSAT and substantial improvement in labor productivity from 57 employees
per 1,000 main lines in 1986 to 32 in 1991 contributed to PERUMTEL remaining
profitable during the 1986 to 1991 period. With the increase in tariff in
October 1990 (para. 6.3), PERUMTEL's financial performance improved in 1991.
The rate of return on net fixed assets in operation, valued on the basis of
historical costs, increased from about 12X in 1990 to about 21X in 1991.



- 39 -
5.3       Except for 1990, PERUMTEL's net internal cash generation after debt
service and mandatory contributions as a percentage of average two year
(current and next year) investments have been higher than 40 percent. Most of
PERUMTEL's internal funds for investments are provided from deferred income
from installation fees, accelerated depreciation and other noncash
expenditures. Retained earnings contributed relatively little to investment
needs as dividend payments and other allocations of its net profit allow
PERUMTEL to retain only 16 percent of pre-tax income. PERUMTEL has been a net
contributor to the Government treasury through (i) corporate income tax,
(ii) value added taxes on subscriber bills and PERUMTEL's procurement, and
(iii) dividend payment. In 1990, the net contribution from PERUNTEL to the
Government was about Rp 166 billion. With the change of corporate status, the
level of TELKOM's annual dividend payment and allocation of its profit each
year are decided by the Shareholder on an annual basis based on TELKOM's
performance and funding needs.
5.4       PERUMTEL's financial position remained sound and liquidity position
was satisfactory during the FY86-91 period. The debt equity ratio remained
below 60:40 and current ratio was 1.5 or higher.
TELKON's ORening Balance Sheet
5.5       TELKOM's opening balance sheet as of September 24, 1991 is
summarized in Table 5.2. As per Minister of Finance's Decree dated September
23, 1991, the authorized capital for TELKOM is Rp 10 trillion. The paid-in
capital is Rp 2 trillion. TELKOM's financial position and liquidity are
satisfactory.



40 -
Table 5,2: TELKOM'S OPENING BALANCE SHEET
AS OF SEPTEMBER 24, 1991
(Rp Billion)
ASSETS
Cash and Bank 4                                  588.7
Other Current Assets                              647.5
Total Current Assets                            1,236.2
Net Fixed Assets                                1,902.0
Work in Progress                                   874.7
Other Assets                                      498.4
Total Assets                                    4,511.3
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                               877.8
Other Liabilities                                  182.4
Long-term Debt                                  1,451.1
Equity                                          2.000.0
Total Liabilities and Equity                    4,511.3
Current Ratio                                     1.4
Debt:Equity Ratio                                42:58
La Includes short-term investments.
TELKON's Prolected Financial Performance
5.6       TELKOM's financial statements are projected on the basis of
assumptions in Annex 19. These projected financial statements and the
financial performance indicators for the period 1992 to 1996 are provided in
Annex 18 and 15, respectively, and key financial performance indicators are
summarized in Table 5.3. Financial projections are based on the network
growth and productivity improvements to be achieved under the Project which
are: (a) number of lines to increase from 1.2 million in 1991 to 3.2 million
by 1996; (b) annual growth in domestic and international traffic of 10 and
20X, respectively; and (c) improved labor productivity from 32 employees per
1,000 main line in 1991 to 16 by 1996. Domestic inflation rates of 6X per
annum were assumed during the period.



- 41 -
Table 5.3: TELKOMIS KEY PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORnANCE INDICATORS
Fiscal Year Ending December 31        1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
----------------- Forecast ---------------
Profitability: (Rp. Billion)
Operating Revenue                    2,179  2,543  3,114  3,664  4,303
Operating Expenses                   1,669  ',909  2,276  2,728  3,190
Net Operating Income                  510   634    838    936  1,113
Net Profit                            224    280    395    433    502
Financial Ratios:
Operating Ratio                        771    751    731    741   74X
Return on Net Fixed Assets             24X   26X    28X    28    29X
Current (Rp'000)
Telephone Revenue/Av Main Line     1,405  1,347  1,373  1,354  1,354
Cash Op Costs/Avg Main Line          644   640    641    651    653
Constant '91 Prices (Rp'000)
Telephone Revenue/Av Main Line     1,325  1,198  1,152  1,072  1,005
Cash Op Costs/Avg Main Line          607    570    538    515    488
Net Internal Cash Generation
as X of Av 2 Year Investments         431   431    42X    471    481
Debt Service Coverage                  2.9   2.9    3.3    3.4    3.2
Current Ratio                          1.7    1.7    1.8    1.9   2.0
Long Term Debt / Total Capital         52X    571    59X   601    601
5.7       Based on the overall productivity improvements (para. 5.6), TELKOM
is projected to achieve adequate financial returns, meets its self financing
target of generating internally a minimum of 40% of its annual financing needs
and maintain its debt equity ratio within the government authorized limit of
60:40 until the end of 1993. However, subject to a tariff review to be
carried out before the end of 1993 (para. 4.7(d)), it is anticipated that
domestic tariffs will need to be increased by about 12X effective January 1,
1994 and maintained in real terms each year zhereafter, to enable TELKOM to
continue to meet its self-financing target and maintain its debt equity ratio
within the governments' requirement until the end of 1996. With these
adjustments in tariff, net profit is expected to increase from about Rp 187
billion in 1991 to about Rp 502 billion by 1996 resulting in an increase in
rate of return on net fixed assets in operation from about 21X in 1991 to
about 29% in 1996. During the forecast period, the liquidity position is
expected to remain satisfactory with current ratio of at least 1.7.
5.8       With the proposed major network expansion, TELKOM's ability to
generate adequate cash flows to finance its investment program, to maintain a
sound financial position and to meet debt service obligations in future years
are the most crucial issues. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
the Government and TELKOM that all necessary measures (including tariff
increases) to achieve the agreed performance targets (para. 4.29) will be
taken to ensure that TELKOM achieves a debt service coverage of at least 1.5
for each year and generate net internal cash after debt service, working
capital needs, and dividend payments and contributions, of a minimum of 40



- 42 -
percent of the annual average of the current and next year's investment in any
one year.
TELKOM's Proiected Financing Plan
5.9       A summary of TELKOM's sources and applications of funds statement
during the period 1992 to 1996 is summarized in Table 5.4. TELKOM is expected
to self finance about 47Z of its investment program and interest during
construction needs during the period. The foreign loans and domestic
borrowing will finance about 53X of TELKOM's total financing needs. Domestic
sources of funds will include bank loans and from 1993 onwards, issue of
bonds. Local consultants financed by TELKOM are assisting it to prepare for
issuance of local bonds.
Table 5.4: FORECASTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (1992-96)
Rupiah Billion    X Of Total
Sources
Internal Cash Generation               8,013.5
Less: Total Transfers                    683.5
Less: Debt Service                     2,547.4
Less: Change in Working Capital          811.3
Net Internal Cash Generation           3,971.3                 47X
Loans                                  4151.93
Total Sources                          8,483.2                100l
Applications:
Capital Investment                     7,609.6                 90X
Interest During Construction             873.6                 lOX
Total Applications                     8,483.2                100l



- 43 -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Least-Cost Solution
6.1       The technical means to achieve the FY92-96 service development
objectives are to a large extent determined by the characteristics of the
existing systems and decisions taken in connection with the third project.
Within these limits, the solutions chosen are likely to result in the lowest
costs regarding both initial investment and total cost over the life of new
facilities. In particular, the adoption of modern technology for the proposed
project, electronic digital technology for telephone switching and associated
remote subscriber units, optical fibre and digital microwave systems for the
interexchange network will result in considerable reduction of installation
and maintenance costs and switching center space requirements.
Tariffs
6.2       Tariff Policies.  Tariff policies for telecommunications services
need to respond to several goals. Thus, in order to contribute to economic
efficiency, tariffs should reflect costs and, where unmet demand exists, also
serve to ration scarce capacity. In addition, tariffs must be adequate to
permit the operating entity to achieve satisfactory financial returns
(including target levels of investment program self-financing). Finally,
tariffs should take account of demand factors and be seen as reasonably fair
by the public. In Indonesia, periodic tariff changes have reflected these
goals. (An approach to establishing a systematic mechanism for reviewing and
implementing tariff changes is discussed in para. 6.5).
6.3       Tariff Levels.  TELKOM's tariffs are shown in Annex 20.  An
international comparison of TELKOM's tariff levels, shown in Figure 6.1,
suggest that they are at reasonable levels. TELKOM's tariffs were last
increased in October 1990 by a revenue-weighted average of about 25%. These
tariff increases, as well as important productivity improvements being made by
TELKOM, mean that the entity is projected to achieve adequate financial
returns and generate internally a minimum of 40% of its annual financing needs
until the end of 1993. Nevertheless, it is anticipated that tariff increases
(that are less than the cumulative amount of inflation since the previous
tariff change) will be required during 1994 (para. 5.7). This project will
support a tariff analysis, leading to revised tariffs, as part of the support
of the institutional development of MTPT (para. 4.6).



Figure 6.1: International Comparison
of TELKOM's Tariffs
(1989. US$)
US$
1000
800
600
400 -~  
200-
0 
U.S.                 U.K.             Australia  New Zealand  Indonesia
=-Annual Service Price  ED Usage Charges
Sources: OECD, IBRD. Booz-Allen Analysis
1. Anmd price of evies Is urmd entd chwrgo p- 20% eonnection dwargs or reudentid users.
2. UW   chre are based on en aerage usge baket for residentil uswer.
3. Pdo  or Indoenn  r the current (1992) chug.. in Jakawt IPT TELKOM's mnaor mafket).
4. Pde h other oountdes wil hve Increed by approxmtly S-1S% over the perod 1989-1992.



f                                4
- 45 -
6.4       Tariff Structure.  The last (October 1990) tariff revision was not
an across the board increase, but made some important improvements to the
structure of the tariff. TeleRhone installation charges were increased by
between 100% - 180% in different regions and are currently the equivalent of
approximately US$500 in the Jakarta area. This high level is warranted to
ration the scarce supply of new telephone lines. TeleDhone service monthly
rental charges were also substantially increased, by about 300%, and are now
the equivalent of US$5 per month in Jakarta. Telephone usage charges were
also increased. Local call charges were increased by 33%, with the price of a
three minute local call set at US 5 cents. Charges for lonZ-distance calls
were increased by smaller percentages and, for calls over 1000 km., charges
were reduced by about 10%. The next tariff review is expected to find that
continued rate rebalancing is desirable. Thus, monthly rental charges should
be increased, so that even low usage subscribers will cover the incremental
costs of network access service. It may be advisable to further increase
local call charges to moderate demand and, therefore, alleviate network
congestion. And to the extent permitted by network capacity and financial
targets, charges for long distance service and leased lines should be
increased in 1994 by less than the rate of inflation.
6.5       Tariff Review Mechanism.  Adequate and timely adjustments of tariffs
are important to ensure TELKOM's continued financial viability. At present in
Indonesia, there is no systematic mechanism for implementing telecommunica-
tions tariff changes, suC'& as rate of return regulation or price caps. Thus,
from time to time, as financial projections and investment programs are
reviewed, TELKOM has approached the government with tariff increase proposals.
Although this situation is not uncommon in countries where governments own the
main telecommunications operator, it tends to unduly politicize tariff
increases and, in many countries, has led to underinvestment in the sector.
Consultants currently ongaged by MTPT (under the Third Telecommunications
Project) are reviewing options for systematizing the government's authoriza-
tion of TELKOM tariff changes. Furthermore, as already specified under the
third project, it was agreed for this project that TELKOM will be required to
furnish to the Bank by November 15 of each year, for review and comment,
tariff reviews and subsequently, taking into account the Bank's comments (if
any), furnish to the government for consideration proposed tariff changes.
Benefits
6.6       The project will make a substantial contribution to improvements in
the productivity of TELKOM. In addition, the project will make a major
contribution to increasing the rate of average annual growth rate of connected
main lines from about 10% p.a. to about 20% p.a. during the 1992 to 1996
period, thereby increasing the penetration rate from 0.68 per 100 population
to 1.7 per 100 by 1996. Given the limited institutional capacity of TELKOM
and the high demand for telecommunications services, these are major achieve-
ments that will benefit almost all sectors of the Indonesian economy and the
public. Furthermore, continued dialogue with the government on sector reform
will contribute to improve sector performance and an expansion in the range of
modern telecommunications services available to businesses.



- 46 -
6.7       The institutional support will assist MTPT in introducing sector
reforms and TELKOM in implementing the additional measures to operate as a
business oriented enterprise as per its new mandate. TELKOM's institutional
development will be pursued in a number of ways, including on-the-job and
overseas training and technical assistance to improve managerial, financial
and technical capabilities of its staff. The investment component would not
only accelerate provision of service to meet part of the unmet demand for
telecommunications services but also substantially reduce unit costs of
investment. Increased availability of telephone service and improved quality
of service would benefit other sectors through communications-related improve-
ments in government and business efficiency and productivity. The project
would also further develop the local consultancy and outside plant contracting
industries through collaboration with international firms.
Rate of Return
6.8       Based on the assumptions summarized in para. 5.6 and shown in
Annex 21, the real financial rate of return (FRR) to TELKOM is estimated at
18%. The real economic rate of return (ERR) based o.a financial flows but
adjusted to take account of taxes including the value-added tax levied on
telephone bills, is estimated at 23%. This is a conservative estimate of the
economic rate of return as it does not include consumer surplus, known to be
high, given the supply constraint. In testing the sensitivity of ERR esti-
mates, the effects of the following scenarios were considered:
(a) a delay of 12 months in connection of new subscribers resulting in a
delayed revenue stream of 12 months. This resulted in a fall in ERR
to 15%;
(b) an increase in capital as well as operating cost by 10%. This
resulted in a fall in ERR to 20%; and
(c) combining (a) and (b). This resulted in a fall in ERR to 13%.
Even under the most improbable scenario, (c), and without taking into account
consumer surplus, the real ERR is 13%. The contract for major
telecommunications equipment to be financed by co-financiers have already been
finalized and cost estimates for major Bank financed items are based on
international competitive prices based on recent contracts for similar items
under the ongoing Third Telecommunications Project. To ensure timely
implementation of the project, single responsibility implementation approach
will be used and all major contracts will be signed by the time of loan
effectiveness.
Proiect Risks
6.9       The potential risks for the project fall into two categories:
(a) delays in procurement, and (b) shortfall in TELKOM institutional capacity
to implement the project. These risks have been recognized and actions
initiated to minimize their impact. TELKOM has already established a nucleus
project implementation unit and adequate technical assistance is provided



- 47 -
under the project to assist TELKOM in the implementation and supervision of
construction works. Residual risks will be addressed through agreed measures
to monitor project implementation with corrective actions initiated as
necessary.



- 48 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       During negotiations agreements were reached with GOI and TELKOM on
the following:
I. GOI
(a) will ensure that TELKOM has access to sufficient funds, in
particular foreign financing to cover its capital expenditures as
reviewed and agreed with the Bank (para. 4.3(b));
(b) will, by November 15, 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its
approval, a training program for the MTPT staff, and, thereafter,
implement the training program as approved by the Bank para (4.10);
(c) will obtain, not later than January 31, 1993, the foreign exchange
financing from Germany and Spain and, not later than June 30, 1993,
from Credit Lyonnais or other sources on reasonable terms to com-
plete the project in accordance with the implementation program
(para. 4.15);
(d) will on-lend $373 million out of the proceeds of the Bank loan to
TELKOM under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.16);
(e) on or before June 30, 1993 will develop and review with the Bank a
time-bound action plan to address the sector policy issues, promote
competition and further strengthen regulatory capabilities, and
thereafter implement the recommendations agreed with the Bank
(para. 4.26(a)); and
(f) will take all such actions, including annual reviews and
adjustments, if any, of TELKOM's tariffs to enable TELKOM to comply
with II (i) below (para. 5.8).
II. TELKOM
(a) will submit to the Bank audited corporate and Statement of Expendi-
tures accounts, within six months of the close of its fiscal year
(para. 2.24);
(b, on or before November 15 of each year, commencing on November 15,
1992, and thereafter until the completion of the Project, will (i)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments,
TELKOM's corporate plan, institutional development plans and invest-
ment program (including Revenue Sharing Arrangements) for the
following fiscal year; and thereafter, taking into account Bank's
comments, if any, carry out such plans and (iij review, and if
required, revise with prior concurrence of the Bank the TELKOM
Fiscal Years 1992 - 1996 Investment Program (para. 4.3(a));



- 49 -
(c) on or before November 15, 1993 review with the Bank TELKOM's
procurement practices and procedures to be followed for procurement
of major goods and services required by TELKOM in the carrying out
of its operations (except for goods and services financed from the
Loan) and thereafter incorporate Bank's comments and adopt such
guidelines (para. 4.3(c));
(d) will, by December 31, 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its
approval, a masterplan for the implementation of items under 4.5(d)
of the Project, which masterplan to include actions to be taken by
TELKOM and the relevant government agencies and thereafter implement
the said parts of the project in accordance with such plan approved
by the Bank (para. 4.26(b));
(e) will appoint consultants according to a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.26(c));
(f) will maintain the Project Implementation Unit for the purpose of
carrying out items 4.5 (c&d) of the Project; the Project-Implementa-
tion Unit will be headed by a qualified and experienced officer, and
vested, at all times, with such power, responsibilities, funds,
staffing facilities and other resources as shall be required to
undertake its responsibilities in carrying out the project (pa-
ra. 4.26(d&e));
(g) will take all measures to meet the physical and financial
performance targets agreed at negotiations for 1992 and 1993, and
will report to the government and the Bank no later than six months
after close of each fiscal year. Every year, before November 15,
TELKOM will furnish to the Bank a revised set of performance targets
for the next two years (para. 4.29);
(h) will, by November 15, 1992, prepare and furnish to the Bank for it's
approval an action plan to strengthen TELKOM's capabilities in the
areas of: (i) accounting and financial management; (ii) operations;
(iii) capacity management of both physical and human resources; and
(iv) training of staff and managers in management techniques and new
technology and thereafter implement such an action plan as approved
by the Bank (para. 4.30);
(i)  will take necessary measures (including tariff adjustment) to ensure
that TELKOM achieves debt service coverage of 1.5 and generates net
internal cash after debt service and contributions of a minimum of
40 percent of the annual average of the current and next year's
planned investment in any one year (para. 5.8); and
(j) on November 15 of each year, commencing November 15, 1992 and
thereafter until completion of the project, will furnish to the
Bank, for its review and comments its proposed tariff revisions, if
any, and subsequently, taking into account Bank's comments, furnish
to GOI for its consideration, any proposed tariff adjustment
(para. 6.5).



- 50 -
Condition of Loan Effectiveness
7.2       Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and TELKOM will
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 4.16).
RecommendatLon
7.3       With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
loan of $375 million to the Republic of Indonesia for a period of 20 years,
including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.



- 51 -
INDONEIA FOURTH TELECOMiMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
able of Connts
ANNEXES                                                     Page No.
1:  Cellular Radio Mobile Telephone Service  ....  ......  52
2:  MTPT Organizational Chart .......      ............  53
3:  Basic Telecommunications Sector Statistics .... ......  54
4:  Supplyvs. Demand ......................... 64
5:  Telephone Service Issues  ........    ............  66
6:  TELKOM Organizational Chart ......        ..........  67
7:  TELKOM Employee Data .................    68
8:  International Development in Sector Organization  ...... 71
9:  1992 - 1996 Investment Program   .............    ..  75
10:  Project Components       .......................  78
11:  Terms of Reference       .......................  81
12:  Procurement Packages and Schedule    . . .105
13: Disbursement Schedule        . . .107
14:  Implementation Schedule .    .     .................. 108
15: Performance Indicators             . . . 110
16: Action Plan   11...
17:  Hlstorical Financial Statements    .    . .114
18:  Projected Financial Statements        .    .    .    118
19:  Assumptions used for Financial Projections  ...      121
20: Summary of TELKOM Tariffs. .                           123
21: Return on Investments .            .                   129
22:  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File . . 133



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Cellular Radio Mobile Telephone Service
Company            Area                Starting Date    Name &              Maximum
Technology       Potential No.
of Subscribers
PT Rajasa          Jakarta, Bogor         May 1986       STKB-C, NMT      15,000 + 15,000
Hazanah            Puncak, Ganjur,                                         (April, 1992)
Perkasa            Bandung                 ._.
PT TELKON          Jakarta,                 1988         SKTB-I, TACS           5,500
l ______________    Bandung
PT Electrindo      Jakarta, E.              1991         AMPS A                25,000
Nusantara          Java
PT Centrancindo    Jakarta, E.              1991         AMPS A                25,000
Panca Sakti        Java
(CPS)__               _ _ _ _ _  _ _



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Minist  of tourism, Posts and lblcommunlcatlons
TELCOI  ADVS     LE  STA
I   OMD 
SMRETMY       ~~Plwanng Burau
| GEN8PEcoRAL                          i      Hmiaan Reources Bueau
FIRance Bureau
ULw and Organizdaon Bueau
R&aD        I                            DIRECTORATE GENERAL          -Gneral AffairsBureau 
i             - SXbb~~Stteowned Enterprises Admhi.BureauC
CENTERDIECORTEOF POer AN TELECOM  I
R & D  |     ~GENERAL OF             IETR    ENRE
TOURISM              DIRECTOR GENERAL
TRAINMN       |i
CENTER
|   *   I                                  >     8~~~~~~~~~~~~ECRETAROF  -Planrdng DM"si  
DIRECTOATE~    II  DIRETORATEOF    I  I DIRECTORATE O       IETRT  O
GENERAL         -Personvnel DhXslon
-Rnanc Dsion
M-r MDsioDhn
-Gewal  " X"
..... .......    . ........ ...    ...... .. .. .   .           --  - -  - -  -  - -  - - -  -  -  - -  - -  - -!
|      AN IR                   FITE lPT. T F ENOM       PT. SD0    DrA    T 
IIZ~~~~Z Z| 3I
E - 



- 54 -
ANUX 3
Page 1 of 10
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Basic Statistics
A.   Data of Switching Capacity, Subscribers and Public Telephone
B.   Regional Data of Switching Capacity, Subscribers and Public Telephone
C.   Share of Faults in Outside Plant and Productivity
1D.   Necessary Days for Repair
E.   OPMC Expansion Plan
F.    Satellite Facility
G.   Successful Call Ratio
H.   Call Loss Structure for Long Distance Direct-Dialing
I.    Profile of Subscribers in Each WITEL by Charges Per Line Per Month



_55 _ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 10
<~~~.                                                       ....i
* (X                                           | W g~~.~:..::.:.
::.~~~~~ f-.';7:.::lfB.::55:.:>S' f:>l.. .'S.fA:.8..  .   .



Amt)emwpulsqvnvm.WW-49MGMaBir4Qd :910N
Mll-,l Wll.'.-'Il
... .     ................ .....                                                    .0M       ..
gm. ni         11
. ..........
go                                                                         MN
bD
......... . ...........
zw:
M..'m
............. ....
 ne,
.... .......
M. 511:
gr  M.9   XYM



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS   PROJECT
C.  Share of Faults  in Outside Plant
Fault Rate/100              Share of Faults in Ouside Plant (X)                 Working efficiency
subs/month                                                                    (faults repaired)
Underground    Overhead    Drop wire   Indoor    Total         per man per day
c_bt__cable   cable
JKT-Tifur            7.4(7.1)*          34.1                 41.8              24.1      100.0            1.0
JKT-Selatan          8.0(7.8)           35.7                 32.8              31.5      100.0            1.1
JKT-Utara           11.2(10.3)          41.9                 40.0              18.1      100.0            1.66
JKT-Pusat            9.5(9.1)           35.5                 29.4              35.1      100.0            1.52
JKT-Barat            9.3(7.1)           48.6                 33.3              18.1      100.0            1.16
Average  CJKT)       9.2(8.4)           39.7                 36.1              24.2      100.0             1.3
Bandung-OPMC         6.5(5.6)           15.3           5.1         48.5        31.1      100.0            2.4
Peden                   5.1              19.7          5.3         32.9        42.1      100.0            0.7
SBY-Utara               13.2            36.3          22.7         11.7        29.2      100.0            1.2
SBY-Selaton             14.3            38.3           9.2         31.0        21.5      100.0            2.3
Ujung Pandang           5.5             14.7          12.2         20.6        52.6      100.0            0.6
Semarang                7.3             18.2           5.1         41.6        35.1      100.0            0.9                                 1
Denpssar                11.8             4.0          27.5         44.5        24.0      100.0            0.9                                VI
Palembwng               8.5             36.5          23.3         15.7        24.5      100.0            1.0
Average                 9.4             24.0          15.0         28.3        32.7      100.0            1.1
Bands Aceh              6.2             24.8           6.5         37.4        31.3      100.0            0.48
Louksumw e              3.6              9.6           4.3         33.9        52.2      100.0            0.'2
Padwig                  5.5             36.9           3.0         27.1        32.9      100.0            0.63
Pakanberu               8.6             18.0          14.7         37.7        29.5      100.0            C.86
P. Sfantar              4.7             18.9           2.2         42.8        36.1      100.0            0.50
Jambf                   6.2             18.3          10.7         39.7        31.3      100.0            0.56
Bander Lampung          6.6             17.5          18.0         31.3        33.2      100.0            0.73
Yogyakarta              9.1              7.4           3.4         45.4        43.8      100.0            0.64
Solo                    7.5             14.1           7.5         33.8        44.6      100.0            0.82
Nalang                  6.8             14.9           2.4         52.0        30.7      100.0            1.17
BanJarmasin             5.5             11.5           5.5         39.3        43.7      100.0            0.75
Nataram                 8.5             21.4           2.4         43.9        32.3      100.0            0.60
Pontianak               5.7             13.1           1.3         55.0        30.6      100.0            1.34
Samarinda               4.5             26.8           6.0         34.4        32.8      100.0            0.78                              (Q z
Nanado                  3.6              9.1          12.2         44.3        34.4      100.0            0.40
Ambon                   4.0             18.2           1.0         41.7        39.1      100.0            0.50                              41
Jayspura                6.1              1.0           3.9         30.2        46.9      100.0            0.45                              o
Average                 6.1             17.6           6.2         39.4        36.8      100.0            0.69



- 58 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
INDONESI
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
D. Speed of Service Restoration
(Unit: X)
Within a   Between 2   Between 4    Over 7       Total
day       and 3        and 7       days
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   days  days
JKT-Utara
Kota-I            29.1       19.4         22.0        29.5       100.0
Kota-II           26.7       17.8         26.0        29.5       100.0
TJ. Priok         23.3       15.6         34.2        26.9       100.0
Ancol             18.4        12.4        30.3        38.9       100.0
Elut              2 _ _     _             32.1        2__ 1
Average            25.1       16.8         28.8        30.2       100.0
JKT-Puwat           8.4         39.6        30.6        21.4       100.0
Average (JKT)      21.5        20.0        29.2        29.3       100.0
Landung-OPMC        45.1       43.6         7.5          3.8       100.0
Medan               35.5       48.7         12.1         3.7       100.0
SBY-Utara           63.0       17.0         13.0         7.0       100.0
SBY-Selatan         54.0       28.6         12.1         5.3       100.0
Ujung Pandang       81.2        17.6        1.1          0.1       100.0
Semarang            53.8       37.8         6.5          1.9       100.0
Denpasar            71.0       24.1         4.9           0        100.0
Palembang           50.6       28.8         15.8        4.8        100.0
Average (Six       58.4       28.9         9.4          3.3       100.0
cities)                                                    .



FauRTH TELECNlICATIO   PROJECT
E. OPWC Lamausion PIp.
_Rg1onal       No. of subscribers       Fault rate         Multi-       15 OMlCS       sEAtablishad
Island          WITEL       Seeder Lampung                                                (100 s*/s        exchange                     WUadr con tructioa
Capital      Pri. at 1994                                   rmt)  *rs  Proposd          In the TELEC11 Ilt
___________________                                                         ________________ Present_It"_Pr&iect
den                       e          42,443       110.000          5.1 1
flang  Ac.h               o           4.209       13.671           6.2              0             0
I      Loehkswwe                  o          3.54         11.67t 3         36 2 
P. Siantar                           4.201         *.000           4.7              o             e
zI      Padaag                                9.7a4       33.070           5.5             e
Patfte^rv                 o          5.964        16.102           *.6              o             o
Paembang                             14,643       29,5W0                            0             0 
III     J=bt                       o4,975                  17.914           6.2              o            o
ftndar Leupung            o          14,390       35.000           6.6              o
J1K? - Timrv              o          77.589       179.500          7.4              o
JKt - Selatan                        65 396       163.500          6.0              o
JKT - Utare                ~~93.667      195.400          11.2o
IV      JKT -pust                 o          91.693       126.400          9.5
KT  - Bret                o          77.326       19f,400          9.3              o
Tamrang                    ~~~~3.903    20.334           12.9
Be .. 1                              2.062        17.093           9.6                            o
Depok                                2.264        11.377           9.3                            o
V      Bandung                    o          4.270        6.109            6.5             _
Sogor                     o            .000       31.943           n.a.                           o
Sem_rangr                            24,195       65.403           7.3              0
VI      voy kvart                 o           9.052        180315          9.1              o
10.637       20.703           7.5             o
Say - Utura                          26.212       179.108          13.2 2
VIl     sOY - Slatan               o          4".686                        14.3             o
Malang                               15.001       35.234           6.8              0             0
Nusa Tonaar a         VillI    Dennasar                   o          19 SS        29.500          11.8                _
Kalimantan             IX      Banjarmasin               o           7.832        21.200          .5                             0 o
Sulawesi               X       U-1una Pandana            o           19.912       40.000           S.              0             0                                             lb oZ
Maluku                 Xi                                                                                                             _                                        O  X
Irian Java       _    Xll_                                                                                                                                                     O o
Totsl                _                _                _             -            _        _                     _             15                    13



- 60 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 7 .f 10
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
F. Satellite Facility
CUSTOMERS (Number)                        Number of Responders
Palapa-B2P    PTT                                                   2
Indonesia other                                     3.5
(7)
Macau                                                1
(1)
Malaysia                                            2.5
(1)
New Zealand                                          1
(2)
Papua New Guinea                                     1
(1)
Philippines                                          3
(4)
Thailand                                           6.75
(8)
Vietnam                                            0.25
(2)
USA                                                  2
Australia                                            1
Free or BackuP                                       0
Palapa-B2R    PTT                                                   19
Indonesia other                                      5
(3)  o
Free or Backup                                       0



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
C. Successful Call Ratio in the Seven Major Cities
City                       Local Network              Long Distance Network
Bandung                              28.0                        16.0
Denpasar                             33.0                        10.0
Jakarta                               25.0                       14.0
Meden                                 34.0                       17.0
Semereng                             29.0                         8.0
Surabaya                             31.0                        19.0
Ujung Pandan                          36.4                       15.0
Average of 50 Cities                 40.0                        20.0



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Call Loss Structure In Indonesia for LDD Calls
Tandem          Exchange        Tandem~~~- Oerlade
Losses:             - No Dial Tone               - Netwh   % Congeslion             - Overoaded
- ParUW Dialing              - Register lime Out                  Exchange
- Incomplete Diaing                - Called Party
Connected Calls per 100 Cali Attempts:                                              - No Answer
Atempts                                                                                 20
Successlul Gals
IP-
0 2



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
I. Profle of Subscriber Lines in Each WTrEL by Charges per Month (%)
Staus: December 91
I .   Rtp. l ,000,000 -     1.75 NA        0.78    2.96    1.08   1.00      1.13    4.15    2.00    0.68  NA         0.99
2.  ]Rp.500,000 -           2.56   2.21    1.66    3.77    2.12   1.80      2.19    4.39    3.00    1.59  NA          1.55
Rp.1,000,000l
3.   Rp.300,000 -           3.34   2.89    2.62    4.44    1.84   2.80      3.05    5.00    4.00    2.26  NA         2.99    c
Rp.500,000 
4.   Rp. 100,000 -         12.57  12.77   12.01   17.06   12.59   11.90    13.60   15.90   14.00   10.63  NA         11.93
Rp.300,000
S.   ltp.0 - Rp. 100,000   80.83  81.38   82.93   71.74   81.35   82.50   NA       70.56   77.00   85.30  NA         82.54
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .. ~~  ~       I
YUZ%.  ...>~V  ~ .'A  W***U  *       *                               .aa~    -    - 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z~~IU~JXYIF1~A~   ~~  ~"  3M  '~    V'~  ~Yi.  VIII'   !~~   ~.A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.   Rp1,000000   1.75 A  0.8    2.9  1.0    1.00 1.13 4.15  .00     .68  N          0.9



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
EXPRESSED DOMAD VS WAMNG APPUCANTS
IHISTORICAL DATA IN INDONESIA (1980 -1990)
(THOUSAND)    (MILWON)
App          Susrbers
600           3.0
SW00          2.5
400           2.0_
War0ngAWWm 
300           1.5/                                                Exressed Demand
100            .
Year         19 BO    1981    198     198     144    1485    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990               N
BCo5mm



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(melon)            Iblephone Lines Demand and Supply
ACTUAL A          PROJECTION
20
Arnual Growth - 30%
10
5
peseots namae Dednd -                  - - . c
>P ~~~~~~~~~ ~25Y e   20Ye
0.1 t 
1980              1985              1i0                 1995               2000
Ni 6ht Hbw onf Id     il % e d  .                                                                   OQ 
bt13
0



INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TELEPHONE SERVICE ISSUES
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~
Short of cables and Un      High tafi pr DEL            ULnderized tunk swithin      Complty of notwrk            % in local etwork            Lack of spames
Phn Mateae                                               oe-t s                                                       dquate 41 MaOtn
-lnadeut mate ard
moob
-Inadequate     on
regulations
Lack of maki  sategy        Undesized exchanges and      Underzed ass circuits        nadequate investment aN      . Tminal equipmet            sumcent stock lev
juncions                    and trunks                   financng planning             -Ack of spares
__                                             _        __                                              -b ison
Irsuficient local nwr       Age of EMb exhage           Absnce of trsMf              Lack of management          V Exchane                     adequa  tratport and
pannn                       Absn  of sysematc bt         measwrem    and analysb                                   -A  ED                     tools
_u    and  -alys- 4ack of Spares
sucient pRect               hadequate kal trfic          hadequate STD taff                                                                    Lack of died peron
cocrdilon  talegrated       frmecastn                     orcastng
appcbu)
High fault late of juncions  High outage duration of                                                              isufflcdent trin
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~trunks                                             _    _   _   _    _   _
High outage duaion of                                                                                             iput
pundons
High outage duraion of
iunctlons
LR
AMhW5WO*_..



INDONESIA
FOURTrH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Ibikom Premnt Organizatlon Chart
*         I  ~~~BONROF
COW=NS 
I WITELI                                WIlTELY    I
| WIELI                                WNi LV
WI1.3                                   WEL IX  |
I WlTELIV                               WITEL LX I
|   WIELV   F                            fEL XI l
r WITELVI                               WITE LXI             
I~m DwCr IM                          I C Pn        Ic
C-                                      Proec_t_H V
b*n~CIr.                            l S Proei
hP a
~HI
BOMOO



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
TELKOM Staff Composition, Productivity and Education
A. Emplovees by Category- 1985-1991
i  W             G   W  ?     ..:r.                                         j j:   " 7 ":~xI -A!  W
B.  Ratio Staff to  Working Lines, 1985-1991
A A '1%...~.
~~~~~.
otbttz~~t/  ~   370    4588  4~924    4,4~7       4,398 .' 2 4,556      4,463



-69-                         ANNEX 7
page 2 of 3
C.   EmDloyees by Education (December 1991)
Education                     No. of Employees                  _
University                          1,796                       4.54
Academy                             2.065                       5.23
Senior High School                  23,006                     58.21
Junior High School                  7,413                      18.76
Elementary School                   5,240                      13.26
Total                               39,520                     100.00



- 7n -
ANNEX 7
page 3 of 3
INDONSSIA
FOURTH TELECOMNUNICATIONS PROJECT
The Number of Subscribers and Employees
Country              No of         No of      Subscribers/  Employees/
subscribers    employees      employee        1,000
subscribers
Singapore                   875,672        11,989          73.0            14
Malaysia            '89    1,388,000       28,041          49.5            20
Thailand            '88    1,005,872       17,956          56.0            18
Philippines         '85     477,963        13,563          35.2            28
Brunei                       24,612          593           41.5            24
Indonesia           '90     915,000        41,000          22.3            37
Pakistan                    583,930        42,790          13.6            73
India                      3,487,908      312,303          11.2            90
Saudi Arabia               1,149,100       21,067          54.5            18
Hong Kong                  1,988,524       14,843          134.0           7.5
Korea (Republic)           8,625,000       50,700          170.1            6
Japan               '90   54,084,000       258,000         209.6            5
Australia                  6,964,661       92,487          75.3            13
France                     24,803,609      163,389         151.8          6.5
Germany (F.R.)             27,221,756      216,020         126.0            8
Canada                     13,206,233      102,581         128.7            8
United Kingdom             22,137,000      223,084         99.2            10
Source:  ITU, "Yearbook of Common Carrier Telecommunication Statistics (16th
Edition) 1978 - 1987,0 1989
Note: Data with no mark is as of 1987 year.



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
page 1 of 4
IERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE IN
RESTRUCTURING THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
1.          Examples of developments in restructuring telecommunications sectors in several
countries are summarized below.
2.           orth America. In the USA, the break-up of AT&T and the authorization of all
kinds of equipment, resale and facilities-based competition are well-known. In Canada,
facilities-based competition has been permitted for many years for almost all services except
public switched voice telephony. Competition in this area is expected before the end of 1993.
Furthermore, government-owned Teleglobe Canada (the monopoly provider of overseas
telecommunications services) was privatized in 1987. As in the USA, cellular telephony is
provided by a maximum of two competitive service providers in each franchised area.
3.          Western Europe. In the .UK, the privatization of British Telcom in 1984 and the
introduction of facilities-based duopolistic competition from Mercury has been followed now by
government proposals to authorize multiple facilities-based competitors. Moreover, the UK has
encouraged cable television companies to provide residential customers with competitive access
to the switched telephone network. In German in 1990 the commercial and regulatory activities
of the Deutsche Bundespost were separated. Deutsche Telekom was established as a state-owned
telecommunications corporation and a department of the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications was given responsibility for sector regulation. There is full competition
in the provision of terminal equipment, value-added services and data communications services.
Voice telephony and the provision of transmission paths are monopoly services of Deutsche
Telekom. However, there is freedom to connect properties in common ownership up to a
distance of 25 kms, low bit-rate satellite services are open to competition and high bit rate
services will be licensed provided they do not lead to the substitution of voice communications
in the terrestrial networks. Germany has already licensed two competing cellular telephone
networks and will authorize a third mobile network for innovative Personal Communications
Services (PCS) in 1992. Further, the German Ministry has stated its interest in seeing Telekom
privatized, in part, by 1994 or 1995. In Franc, in 1990, France Telecom was established as
an independent, government-owned company outside of the Ministry of Posts,
Telecommunications and Space. Subsequently, the Ministry announced liberalization of the
terminal equipment and value-added markets and limited competition for mobile/satellite
networks and services.
4.          New Zealand and Australia.  New Zealand has probably gone further in
liberalizing its telecommunications sector than any other country. In 1987, the Telecom
Corporation of New Zealand Limited was established as a state-owned limited liability
enterprise. In 1989, the telecommunications services sector was opened to all kdnds of
competition. In 1990, Telecom New Zealand was completely privatize  in a sale that gives a
controlling interest to a consortium headed by Ameritech and Bell Atlantic. Telecom New



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
page 2 of 4
Zealand was reorganized into regional subsidiaries and a long-distance subsidiary within a
holding company structure. In Australia, in 1991, after an extensive sectoral review, the
government sold the state-owned satellite company (AUSSAT) to a private consortium with
major foreign investors (ie. Bell South, Cable & Wireless) and awarded the consortium a second
license to provide a full range of domestic and international telecommunications services. At
the same time, the government merged its overseas carrier (OTC) with its domestic carrier.
After 1997, the government has announced there will be no restriction on the number of network
providers.
5.          Eastern Eur. In Hungay, the Government has initiated the process of
privatization and liberalization of the telecommunications sector.  In January 1990,
telecommunications services were separated from postal and broadcasting services, and the
Hungarian Telecommunications Company was established as a separate state-owned enterprise.
HTC is in the process of being transformed into a joint stock company operating under the
Hungarian commercial code and supervised by the State Property Agency, an agency established
by Parliament to supervise and oversee the privatization of state-owned enterprises. Through
a joint venture with US West, HTC provides cellular service. Under the telecommunications
bill currently under review, up to 49% of the equity shares of HTC could be sold to the private
sector. It is expected that this will include the participation of a major international
telecommunications company which will act as a strategic investor in HTC. In addition, it is
anticipated that certain services, such as value-added services, will be subject to competition
from private operators. In Poland in 1989 the telecommunications operating functions were
separated from regulatory functions, with the operating functions vested in the Polish Post,
Telegraph and Telephone and the regulatory functions vested in a new separate ministry of Posts
and Telecommunications. With the telecommunications law that became effective in January
1991, telecommunications were separated from other activities and established as a separate
operating company, TPSA. The telecommunications law also grants the Minister for Post and
Telecommunications broad authorities to grant licenses, although international facilities and
public services will remain the monopoly of TPSA. A nationwide mobile cellular license has
been awarded to a consortium of France Telecom and Ameritech which would own 51 % of the
joint venture. TPSA would hold the remaining 49% of the venture.
6.          In Latin America, restructuring of telecommunications sectors has either been
implemented or is under active consideration in many countries. In 1990, Argentina privatized
its poorly performing govemment-owned telecommunications entity, ENTEL, and divided it into
two regionally separate companies. MeiQ   has introduced new policies and regulations to
expand competition in the telecommunications sector. At the end of 1990, the government
reached agreement with a consortium headed by Southwestern Bell, France Telecom and their
Mexican partners to sell a controlling interest in the Mexican telephone company, TELMEX.
In Cbile, Compania de Telefonos de Chile was privatized in 1988. Venezuela has opened a
process to establish a fully privatized nationwide cellular telephone system. Furthermore, in
November 1991, the government agreed to sell the state-owned telecommunications company
(CANTV) in a consortium led by GTE and which includes AT&T. Reform of the
telecommunications sector is also under active consideration in Brazil, Peru and Uruguay.



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
page 3 of 4
7.          Asia. In Japn in the second half of the 1980s a series of measures corporatized
and privatized Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) and introduced both service-based and
facilities-based competition, while responsibility for regulation of the sector remained with the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications.  In  1990, the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications announced that NTT would be restructured into ten or eleven separate
autonomous divisions and a separate long-distance division. In Bangladesh the government
authorized a private company to provide cellular service, authorized there private companies to
provide rural telecommunications in respective geographic areas and established a joint-venture
between the government-owned Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board and Cable and
Wireless for the provision of overseas telecommunications. In Korea, the government has
announced its' intent to privatize the major carrier, Korea Telecom, and has authorized a second
carrier to provide competitive intemational telephone service beginning in 1992. The data
communications and terminal equipment markets have also been substantially liberalized.
[alaysia has moved rapidly from the corporatization of Syrikat Telekom Malaysia on January
1, 1987 to a partial privatization of the company in November 1990. In Sri Lanka the
government ha announced plans to corporatize new Sri Lanka Telecommunications Corporation.
A draft new law and regulations will permit competition in the provision of terminal equipment
and in the provision of broadly defined value-added services, and would establish a regulatory
authority in the Ministry of Communications. In Thailand, competition is permitted in the
provision of VSAT networks. Furthermore, the government announced at the end of 1909 a
very large (US$5 billion) Build-Operate-Transfer deal with the British Telecom and a Thai
partner.
8.          To varying degrees, the restructuring measures outlined above have heen
accompanied by significant improvements in productivity resulting from the introduction of
commercial vs. bureaucratic management systems, a reduction in political interference, the input
of increased capital or better technical know-how, and from efficiency improving measures
introduced in the face of the threat of competition. Table Al below gives an indication of the
enormous productivity gains that have been made by Telecom New Zealand. Significant gains
resulted from extensive contracting out of installation and maintenance work previously carried
on in-house. Similarly, impressive gains in performance have been reported bv Syrikat Telekom
Malaysia since its incorporation on January 1, 1987 (Table A2).



- 74 -
ANNEX 8
page 4 of 4
Table A. 1: TELECOM N          ZEALAND PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT
1987                   1990
Total staff                                              25,600                 15,530
Customer lines/per employee                                65                     120
Digital switching                                         20%                    90%
Table A.2: SYRIKAT TELEKOi MALAYSIA
1987                     1990
Exchange lines per employee                             40                        50
Operator response for directory
enquiries (% of responses within                         85                       99
20 seconds)                                          .



INDOESIA                                                               Amex 9
PT TELEKOHUIIKASI INDONESIA (TELKON)                                                 Pas  1 of 3
....................................
FCRTH TELECIUUUICATIONS PSoJECT
.................................
1nveatm nt Progr_ (1992-96)
CRWIdm Billion)
By ltz  ear                          ------19992-                       93 ------1994------ ....--14-                          ------           ------1996 -.--
-------- . ---Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Locat  forefgn  Total   Local  Foreign  Totel
1. ONIOING POGRAN                                       .....   .....  .......  .....   .....          ....  .....    ....   ......    ...               .......  .....
A. Tetecom III ProJect                  194.1   155.4   349.4   102.9    93.0   195.9    89.1    96.2   185.3    10.4    10.8    21.1               0.0      0.0      0.0
R. other aigoing Projects              369.3   239.5   606.8   191.5   225.4   416.9   109.0   201.8   310.9              7.5    85.9    93.4       2.6    20.6    23.1
Toetl Cost Oagolni Program         563.4   394.9   958.3   294.4   318.4   612.8   198.1   298.0   496.2    17.9    96.7   114.5                 2.6    20.6    23.1
It. TELECON IV PROJECT
1. switching Exchge
- Expqnion                          41.9   136.1   177.9    18.5   146.0   164.6    12.S   107.8   120.3              0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
- tdh bltitatlon                    64.5    53.6   118.1        9.8    78.7    88.5        6.9    58.0    64.9        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
2. outside Plnt Network (ONP)                                                0.0                        0.0                        0.0                       0.0
- Expinsion                        107.3    45.2   152.5   221.2    73.5   294.7   180.1    61.6   241.7   141.4    44.0   185.4    33.9    10.6    44.5
- R hablitation                      3.6      1.0      4.6    15.2       9.4    24.5    10.0        5.6    15.6       7.2      3.6    10.7      0.0      0.0      0.0
3. Transmission
- Expmlsion                          1.4    13.7    15.1    17.3   109.0   126.2    11.9    77.1    89.0             0.7      7.2      7.9      0.0      0.0      0.0
- Rehabilitation                     0.0      0.0      0.0    16.4    43.8    60.3    11.0    28.9    39.9           0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
4. Jumction Network                      0.0      0.0      0.0    10.1    30.7    40.8         6.7    20.5    27.2        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
S.  Integrated Nanrgement System          1.2    12.0    13.1        7.4    41.2    48.6       2.7    16.5    19.3        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0 un
8. sparo Parts Tools wnd Test Eqpt.    7.3    20.3    27.6          4.9    13.5    18.4        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
7. Tecdmical AsiIstanc                                                       0.0                        0.0                        0.0                       0.0
- NTPT                               0.3      0.4      0.7      0.3      0.6      0.9      0.3      0.6      0.9      0.2     0.4      0.6      0.2      0.4      0.6
- TELIo                              1.4      6.6      8.0      1.2      4.4      5.6      1.2      4.4      5.6      1.3     4.8      6.0      0.9      1.4      2.3
8. Training
- NTPT                               0.1      0.5      0.6      0.1      0.3      0.4      0.1      0.3      0.4      0.1      0.2     0.3      0.1      0.2      0.3
- TELKoN                             0.4      0.9      1.3      0.2      0.6      0.9      0.2      0.6      0.9      0.2     0.4      0.6      0.2      0.4      0.6
l  e Cost                          229.4   ; 0.2   519.6   322.6   551.8   874.4   243.6   381.9   625.5   150.9    60.6   211.5    35.2    13.0    48.2
Physical Contingency                11.5       5.5    16.9    16.1       8.9    25.0    12.2        7.3    19.5       7.5      5.3    12.9       1.8     1.3      3.1
Price Contingency                    7.2       1.4     8.6    20.6       3.8    24.5    23.7        4.1    27.8    19.9       4.1    24.0       5.9      1.2      7.1
. .......  ....... ....... ....... ....... ..........  ....... .......  ....... .......  ----.---  --------...... .
Total Project Cost TELCON IV       248.1   297.1   545.2   359.4   564.5   923.8   279.5   393.3   672.8   178.4    70.0   248.3    42.9    15.5    58.4
III.FUTUME PROGRAM                       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   199.2   119.5   318.7   657.4   502.0  1,159.3   796.8   681.3  1,478.1
... .... .......   ..........  . . ... .. ....... .......  ..... ..  . . ..   ....  ....... ..... ...  .......  .......  ........... .......  ...... .
TOTAL PROGRU4 COST                 811.5   692.0  1.503.5   653.7   882.9  1,536.6   676.8   dlO.9  1.487.7   853.6   S68.6  1.522.2   842.2   717.4  1,559.6
gruzz a   = 2=            ---= --= 5r5   2=3===  =5555====   ==    3====3. ===eUz  3======-== == ==5  ===5====    ======  =======



tVDOLESIA
---ESIA --Amex 9
PT TELEKoIKuAISI INDONESIA (TELKO)                                                                 ........
*;;    ...............................                          Page  2  of  3
f TN TELECIIUSUICATIOUS PROJECT
inNestuent Progrem (1992-96)
(C    Nilliun)
ey ItwTeeS    r.----  1992 -----                                   --- -19 3 -----             ......1994-                  ------1995------           ......1996------
--------.                     Local   ForeIgn   Total    Local   Forelgn   Total    Loeal   forelgn   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign  Total
1.   ;i                               ....     ......    .....     .....-  ......                      ......    .....-    .....   ....... -- - - -- - -- -  -----  .....  .......  .....
A.  T-' .m III Project                    97.4      78.0    175.4      51.6     46.7     98.3      44.7     48.3     93.0       5.2      5.4      10.6      0.0      0.0      0.0
B. Other Onoins Projecte                 185.4    120.2    305.6       96.1    113.1    209.3      54.7    101.3    156.1       3.8     43.1     46.9       1.3     10.3     11.6
....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ------- ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
Total Cost Or4ing Progrme            282.8    198.2    481.1    147.8   159.6    307.6        99.5    149.6    249.1       9.0      48.5     57.5       1.3     10.3     11.6
It. TELECo IV PROJECT
1. Smdtcbiog Exchuue
- Expansion                           21.0     68.3      89.3      9.3      73.3     82.6      6.3      54.1     60.4      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
- Rehabilitation                      32.4     26.9      59.3      4.9      39.5     44.4      3.5      29.1     32.6      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
2. Outside Ptnt Network (WN)
- Expansion                           53.9     22.7      76.6    111.1      36.9    148.0     90.4      30.9    121.3     71.0     22.1      93.1     17.0      5.3      22.3
- Rehabilitation                       1.8      0.5       2.3      7.6      4.7      12.3      5.0       2.8      7.8      3.6       1.8      5.4      0.0      0.0       0.0
3. Trnsaimisson
- Expansion                            0.7      6.9       7.6      8.7     54.7      63.4      6.0      38.7     44.7      0.4      3.6       4.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
- Rehabilitation                       0.0      0.0       0.0      8.3      22.0     30.3      5.5      14.5     20.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
4.  Junctlon Network                       0.0       0.0      0.0       5.1     15.4     20.5       3.3     10.3     13.6       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
S.  Intgrated Negemant System               0.6      6.0      6.6       3.7     20.7     24.4       1.4      8.3      9.7      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0 c
8.   We Parts, Tools md Test Eqpt.         3.7      10.2     13.9       2.4      6.8      9.2       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
7. Technical Assistance
* NTPT                                 0.1      0.2       0.3      0.1       0.3      0.4      0.1       0.3      0.4      0.1      0.2       0.3      0.1      0.2       0.3
- TELKON                               0.7      3.3       4.0      0.6       2.2      2.8      0.6       2.2      2.8      0.6      2.4       3.0      0.5       0.7      1.2
S. TraIning
* hTPT                                 0.1      0.2       0.3      0.0      0.2       0.2      0.0       0.2      0.2      0.0      0.1       0.1      0.0      0.1       0.1
- TELKON                               0.2      0.5       0.6      0.1       0.3      0.4      0.1       0.3      0.4      0.1      0.2       0.3      0.1      0.2       0.3
....... ....... ....... .... .. ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
_ese cost of Project                 115.2    145.T    260.9    161.9   277.0    438.9    122.3    191.7    314.0         75.8      30.4    106.2     17.7       6.5     24.2
Physical Continrency                   5.8       2.7      8.5      8.1       4.5     12.6      6.1       3.7      9.8      3.8       2.7      6.5      0.9       0.7      1.5
Price Contingency                      3.6       0.7      4.3      10.4      1.9     12.3      11.9      2.1     14.0     10.0       2.0     12.0      3.0       0.6      3.6
... .        . .  .           .      .  .....  .          .         ...    .  ....... ... .     ....  .         ......
Total Project Cost TELCON IV         124.5    149.1    273.7    180.4    283.4    463.8    140.3    197.4    337.8        89.5      35.1    124.7     21.5       7.8    29.3
IiI.fUTURE PROGRAN                         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    100.0      60.0    160.0    330.0    252.0    582.0    400.0    342.0   742.0
....... ....... ....... .            .        ....... ------- ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ------- .......
TOTAL PROGIM COOT                    407.4    347.4    754.7    328.2   443.2   771.4    339.8    407.1    7U.8    428.5    335.6    764.2    422.8   360.1    782.9
3333        3     3333-X333  8=2333   3333333  S33333   3333333  33333  3==33===                      3333  333=33=3= ac3 3=33_ 3r.3=3=



- 77 -
INDONESIA                           Annex 9
PT TELEKOIJNIKASI INDONESIA (TELKO) 
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT                Page 3 of 3
Investment Program (1992-1996)
TOTAL                               TOTAL
(Rupiah Billion)                        CUSS Mill)
By Items                        --------- 1992-96 ---------         --------- 1992-96 ---------
--------                         Local   Foreign   Total              Local   Foreign   Total
1. ONGOING PROGRAM
A.  Telecom III Project                  396.4    355.4    751.8             199.0    178.4    377.4
B.  Other Ongoing Projects               680.0   m7.2  1,453.2               341.3   388.2   729.5
... ....  ....... ...........   ....... ...........  ....... ..
Total Cost Ongoing Program        1,076.4  1,128.6  2,204.9              54G.3   566.6  1,106.9
11. TELECOM IV PROJECT
1. Switching Exchange
- Expansion                          72.9   389.8   462.8                 36.6    195.7   232.3
- Rehabilitation                     81.3    190.2    271.5               40.8     95.5    136.3
2. Outside Plant Network COPEN
- Expansion                         683.8    234.9    918.7              343.3    117.9    461.2
- Rehabilitation                     35.9      19.5    55.4               18.0      9.8     27.8
3. Transmission
- Expansion                          31.2    207.0    238.2               15.7    103.9    119.6
- Rehabilitation                     27.4     72.7    100.1               13.8     36.5     50.3
4.  Junction Network                      16.7     51.2     67.9               8.4     25.7      34.1
5. Integrated Management System           11.4     69.7     81.1               5.7     35.0     40.7
8.  Spare Parts, Tools and Test Eqpt.    12.2    33.9    46.0                  6.1      17.0     23.1
7. Technical Assistance
- NTPT                                1.3      2.4       3.6               0.6      1.2      1.8
- TELKOM                              6.1     21.5      27.6               3.0     10.8      13.8
8. Training
- MTPT                                0.4       1.6      2.0               0.2      0.8       1.0
- TELKOM                              1.2      3.0       4.2               0.6      1.5      2.1
....... ......... .  .......  . ..... .. .......  .........
Base Cost                           981.7  1,297.4  2,279.2              492.8   651.3  1,144.2
Physical Contingency                 49.1      28.3     77.4              24.6     14.2    38.8
Price Contingency                    77.4      14.7    92.0               38.8      7.4     46.2
Total Project Cost TELCOM IV      1,108.2  1,340.4  2,448.6              556.3   672.9  1,229.2
III.FUTURE PROGRAM                    1,65S.4  1,302.8  2,956.1              830.0    654.0  1,484.0
.......    .......... .......       ........... .......    ..........  ...............
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                3,837.9  3,771.7  7.6C9.6            1,926.7  1,893.4  3,820.1
3.33.33  3333333  33.3333           3333333  33-.33   a3 33an



- 78 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
FOITH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENTS
The principal items to be installed during the project period and the source financing are
given below.
PHYSICAL COMPONENTS                                SOURCE OF  FINANCING
| ____________________________                _ RFOREIGN             LOCAL
1. Local Switching: 745,500 Line Units of
digital telephone switching will be installed in
about 120 locations which includes switches for
replacement of around 2,500 manual lines, 135,000
electromechanical and analog SPC lines. It
consists of the following:
a. STDI-I Phase Vl a: 139,500 Line Unit           Germany         TELKOM
(EWSD, SIEMENS)
b. STDI-II           339,000 Line Unit            US EXIM         TELKOM
(5ESS, AT&T)                                   Nederland
Spain
c. STDI-HI          267,000 Line Unit           Japan EXIM        TELKOM
(NEAX61, NEC)
2. Outside Plan Facilities
a. Local Cable Network                           World Bank       TELKOM
This component includes replacement of
32,000 paper insulated and worn cable
and expansion of local cable network
in about 182 locations, representing about
950,000 pairs of primary cables terminated
on MDF, 1,425,000 secondary cable pair
wiring up to the customer premises and
provision of telephone set and connecting
600,000 new subscribers including 20,000
payphones. And part of inter exchange
in Surabaya area. This consists of 2 links
Optical Fibre and 6 link Radio. Total
channel ends would be 10,440 ch, 2 Mbps
system.



- 79 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
PHYSICAL COMPONENTS                              SOURCE OF  FINANCING
FOREIGN        LOCAL
Constructon or modification of existing
buildings complete with air conditioning,
electrical power and standby generators.
b. Junction Network
Jabotabek transmission including connection    OECF         TELKOM
from the local exchange to the sub tandem of
Jakarta Area, consists of 32 links Optical
Fibre and 2 links radio. The total channel
is 77,040 ch, 2 Mbps system.
3. Long Distance Network
This component provided for the expansion of
domestic long distance telephone facilities
to the traffic generated by local network
expansion for service to new area in East
Indonesia. The supply, installation of
equipment and facilities and one year
maintenance will be on a single responsibility
basis. Supporting facilities will be provided
under a separate contract on a single responsibility
basis. It includes the following:
a. Expansion of Java-Bali digital MW system.     France       TELKOM
b. Installation of Nusa Tenggara Digital MW      France       TELKOM
system to provide high capacity toll
transmission capability and to provide
high capacity toll transmission system.
It consists of 25 link radio transmission,
180 system equivalent 5,400 channels.



- 80 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 3
PHYSICAL COMPONENTS                                   SOURCE OF  FINANCING
l _______________________________ _ LFOREIGN                            LOCAL
c. Cross Kalimantan Digital MW +                     IBRD            TELKOM
Supporting Facilities to extend the digital
transmission system from Banjarmasin to
Pontianak. It consists of 21 link radio,
116 system and equivalent to 3,480
channel.
d. Extension of Trans Sulawesi System                France          TELKOM
e. Remote Area Phase III                            Germany          TELKOM
It's included to accommodate and
facilitate the telecommunication system
with transmission facilities in remote
areas in 200 locations to support the
interconnection of digital exchange.
It consists of 5 link F.O. 162 system and
68 link radio. The total channel is
143.94 ch, 2 Mbps system.
4. Computerization of Operations
a. Integrated Network Management System            US Exim          TELKOM
b. Modernizing the directory enquiry system       World Bank        TELKOM
5. Maintenance Needs                                 World Bank        TELKOM
a. Spare parts
b. Tools, software
c. Test Equipment
d. Exchange and traffic handling equipment
6. Technical Assistance for MTPT and TELKOM          World Bank        TELKOM



-81 -                                 ANNEXII
Page 1 of 24
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Requirements
A.   Terms of Reference for Telecommunications Policy and Regulatory Strengthening
B.   Terms of Reference for MTPT
C.   Terms of Reference for Management and Professional Development
D. Terms of Reference to Su !port Decentralization Program
E.   Terms of Reference to Introduce Integrated Network Management Systems
F.   Terms of Reference to Strengthen Finance Directorate



- 82 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 24
A. TERMS OF REFERENCE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICY AND REGULATORY STRENGTHENING
Backgrond
At present in the Government of Indonesia, telecommunications regulation and policy is mainly
the responsibility of the Directorate General of Posts and Telecommunications (DGPT) in the Ministry
of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications (MTPT). However, on some telecommunications policy
topics, the Minister is advised by the Secretary General of MTPT. Furthermore, in some cases,
discussions take place between MTPT, the Ministry of Finance and other ministries before
recommendations are forwarded to the government. Much of the activity of DGPT until now has
focused on somewhat narrow technical matters.
Several developments in recent years have created the need for a substantially increased and
changed telecommunications policy and regulatory capability in the GOI. These developments have
included the following:
*    A sustained, high growth in demand for telephone service in Indonesia which has led to
an acute shortage of telephone lines in spite of large increases in the size of the local
network.
3    The increasing commercialization of PT. TELKOM, as reflected in its change of status
to a limited liability company from a 'perum".
The increasing demand for specialized data, facsimile and other specialized business
services.
The new Telecommunications Law (Law no. 4 of 1989) which permits competitive
provision of value-added telecommunications services.
*    Technological developments that create the possibility of a diversified supply of
telecommunications services, such as cellular telephony and VSAT.
These and other developments are generating regulatory and policy issues that are extremely
important for the development of the telecommunications sector in Indonesia. These issues include:
competition poli  - how much competition can be permitted, in what ways, subject to what kind of
interconnection agreements, and with what kind of public vs. private ownership; how can potential
monopoly abuses be avoided; sector flnancing - how can private investment be used to accelerate
sector development while protecting the public interest in the quasi-monopoly areas; tariff policy -
what are appropriate mechanisms for periodic tariff adjustments that give incentives for investment
and efficient operations.
Objectives. Anproach and Tasks
Objectiv. Consultants, financed by the Bank under the Third Telecommunications project,
have indicated that (a) the capacity to deal with new regulatory and policy issues (para. xx) is largely
absent in DGPT and (b) a much expanded regulatory role is a necessary complement to policies to



- 83 -                              ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 24
expand competition in order to enhance the performance of the sector. Therefore, the objective of the
consultancy is to strengthen the telecommunications regulatory and policy capability of the GOI over a
period of two (or more) years.
Approach. The consultancy will provide more or less continuous full-time on-site professional
advice and assistance on telecommunication policy and regulatory matters. The on-site specialists will
have access to and be supported by the contractor's part-time team of telecommunications specialists
whose experience covers a wide range of telecommunications policy and regulatory issues, and who
may be based outside of Indonesia.
Tasks. Tasks to be undertaken by the consultancy on specific topics will depend on
telecommunications policy decisions that may be taken by GOI over the next 6-12 months.
Therefore, a detailed list of tasks is to be prepared closer to the time of bidding. Nevertheless,
consultancy tasks will include the following:
(a)   Assist the GOI in developing and up-dating a telecommunications regulatory agenda that
will identify regulatory issues to be resolved over a two-three year time frame, the
process for resolving the issues, and a realistic schedule.
(b)   Provide, at the request of the client, a written analysis of a series of specific
telecommunications policy or regulatory issues, an assessment of options to resolve
issues and recommend plans of action.
(c)   Assist with or lead activities to undertake and complete action plans to resolve
telecommunications policy or regulatory issues.
(d) Transfer knowledge of telecommunications policy and regulation analysis and
implementation by holding working meetings with counterpart staff and working in a
team with GOI staff on specific issues where requested by the client.
The consultancy is expected to be involved in some of the following activities:
(a) Regulatory Policy
* Authorizations for the operation of public telecommunications networks, including the
development of carrier obligations.
* Authorizations for resellers and value-added service providers,
including the development or revision of applicable conditions.
*  Identification of potential anti-competitive or unduly discriminatory behavior by
facilities-based service providers and development of regulatory measures to minimize
such behavior.
e  Development of approaches to resolve network interconnection, revenue settlement and
access charge issues, including issues related to the provision of leased lines to resellers
and/or value-added service providers or to competitive cellular operators.
*  Authorizations for customer-owned satellite terminals.



- 84 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 24
Radiospectrum allocation for public telecommunications networks (including cellular
telephony).
(b)   Price. Cost and Financial Analysis
* Development and application of criteria for the review and approval of tariff proposals.
* Develpment of standardized techniques to monitor tariffs and to analyze and assess
tariff proposals.
* Review of financial projections of TELKOM, INDOSAT and cellular operators and
development of a capabil:ty to assess forecasts of rates of return and other financial
indicators under different scenarios.
* Review of methodologies and estimates of the costs of providing telecommunications
services.
(c)   Ouality of Service. Investment Program. Technical Standards and Terminal Eguipment
? Performance indicators and systems to monitor results.
* Assessment of TELKOM's and INDOSAT's investment program, depreciation and
procurement policies.
* Technical standards for networks and terminal equipment.
(d)   Administrative, Legal and Information Systems
* Development of improved administrative systems for both externally-oriented needs (e.g.
processing of authorization applications, regulatory proceedings) and internal
requirements (e.g. personnel, finance, contract payments, supplies).
* Development and maintenance of information systems to support regulatory activities.
PSmithmhWa:tcepol.tor



- 85 -                              ANNEX ll
Page 5 of 24
B. TERMS OF REFERENCE
TARIFF STUDY
Background
1.   Tariff Policies. Tariff Policies for telecommunications services need to respond to several
goals. Thus, in order to contribute to economic efficiency, tariffs should reflect costs and, where
unmet demand exists, also serve to ration scarce capacity. In addition, tariffs must be adequate to
permit the operating entity .o achieve satisfactory financial returns (including target levels of
investment program self-financing). Finally, tariffs should take account of demand factors and be
seen as reasonably equitable by the public.
2.   Tariff Levels. TELKOM's tariffs are shown in Annex 20. TELKOM's tariffs were last
increased in October 1990 by a revenue-weighted average of about 35%. These tariff increases, as
well as important productivity improvements being made by TELKOM, mean that the corporation is
projected to achieve more than adequate financial returns until the end of 1993. Nevertheless, it is
anticipated that tariff increases will be required during 1994 (para. 6.7). This study will analyze
Indonesian telecommunications tariffs, thereby providing a basis for recommendations to the
Government to implement revised tariffs in 1994.
3.   Tariff Structure. The last (October 1990) revision of TELKOM's tariffs was not an across the
board increase, but made some important improvements to the structure of the tariff. Telephone
installation charges were increased by between 100% -180% in different regions and are currently the
equivalent of approximately US$500 in the Jakarta area. The high level is warranted to ration the
scarce supply of new telephone lines. Telephone service monthly rental charges were also
substantially increased, by about 300%, and are now the equivalent of US$5 per month in Jakarta.
Telephone usage charges were also increased. Local call charges were increased by 33%, with the
price of a three minute local call set at US 5 cents. Charges for long-distance calls were increased by
smaller percentages and, for calls over 1000 km., charges were reduced by about 10%. The new
tariff review is expected to find that continued rate rebalancing is appropriate. Thus, monthly rental
charges should be increased, so that even low usage subscribers will cover the incremental costs of
network access service. It may be advisable to further increase local call charges to moderate demand
and, therefore, alleviate network congestion. And to the extent permitted by network capacity and
financial targets, it is anticipated that charges for long distance service and leased l.nes should be
increased in 1994 but an amount less than the cumulative rate of inflation since the last tariff increase.
Objectives
4.   Objectives of the consultancy are to:
(a)   Assess the stiicture and level of TELKOM's current tariffs taking account of (i) long-
run marginal cosLs (LRMC); (ii) scarce network resources; (iii) demand factors; and (vi)
financial targets. And further to describe and justify the structure and level of a set of
optimum tariffs, and recommend a program of staged tariff revisions that will move
TELKOM significandy towards the optimum set of tariffs within a reasonable time-
frame.



- 86 -                               ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 24
(b)   Assess the structure and level of PT. IndoSat's current tariffs, international accounting
rates and revenue settlements with TELEKOM, taking account of (i) long-run marginal
costs; (ii) network capacity; (iii) demand factors; and (iv) financial targets. And further
to describe and justify the structure and level of a set of optimum tariffs and recommend
a program of staged tariff revisions !hat will move PT. IndoSat significantly towards the
optimum set of tariffs within a reasonable time-frame.
(c)   Transfer to DGPT and local consultants know -how in undertaking tariff analysis.
Scope, of Wortk
5.   In order to achieve these objectives, the consultants will undertake the following tasks:
(a)   Describe the present tariff structure of PT TELEKOM and PT. IndoSat for all important
services or categories of services, their evolution and recent changes. Provide an
analysis of these tariffs for a five-year period in terms of (i) real (inflation-adjusted) vs.
nominal Rupiah; (ii) US$ equivalent.
(b)   Provide, for a five-year period a comparison of TELKOM and IndoSat charges for
important services and service categories within the charges for equivalent services in
Malaysia, Singapore, Korea and the USA.
(c)   Estimate LRMC of important services or service categories including: km) initial
connection to the network; (ii) on-going network access; (iii) local call services; (iv)
domestic long-distance; and (v) international call service.
(d)   Using financial forecasting models, estimate the mark-up above LRMC necessary to
achieve financial targets, taking account of demand and network capacity factors to the
extent appropriate.
(e)   Estimate, for reference purposes, a cost-based revenue settlement (or access charge)
between TELKOM and IndoSat for the exchange of traffic.
(f)   Estimate, for reference purposes, a cost-based revenue settlement (or access charge) for
the exchange of traffic between TELKOM and cellular telephone systems.
(g)   Based on the above analysis, describe and justify the structure and level of a set of
optimum tariffs for TELKOM and PT. IndoSat. Recommend a program of staged tariff
revisions that will move TELKOM and Antacid significantly towards this set of optimum
tariffs in a reasonable time-frame.
Om)  Present study methodologies and findings in professional q4ality written reports.



- 87 -                             ANNEXI 1
Page 7 of 24
C. TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR MANAGEMENT AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Backgrnd
1.         The domestic telecommunication service in Indonesia is the responsibility of the wholly
government-owned operating company, TELKOM. To meet the balanced macroeconomic goals of
Indonesia over the five-year period 1992-1996, the Government plans more than to double the size of
the existing TELKOM telecommunications network to meet the large and growing unmet demand,
improve the quality of service and improve TELKOM's efficiency and productivity. The single
biggest constraint to achievement of these goals is the lack of necessary numbers and quality of staff
at all levels, in particular senior and middle management levels.
2.         TELKOM management has recognized the urgent need to develop the managerial skills
of its staff to implement and operate projects and systems of growing size and complexity and has
therefore decided to initiate a program to strengthen managerial and professional staff resources using
a combined program of academic training at a foreign university and a working internship at a
distinguished foreign operating entity.
3bjectives
3.         The objectives of the envisaged training are:
(a)  to acquire practical experience to technical management staff in their chosen fields while
developing their professional and technical skills, and
kb) to upgrade the capabilities of individual managers through exposure to modern
managerial techniques.
Method of Delivery
4.         The program will be carried over four years commencing September 1992. Three types
of training will be provided. First, the project will fund 60 fellowships, each for 2 years, to enable
middle and senior level managers and technical experts to acquire valuable experience in their chosen
fields while, pursuing an academic program at the master's degree level. By alternating periods of
academic study with similar periods of paid professional employment in which they engage in
performing productive work, participants will develop their professional and technical skills and be
better able to integrate theory with practice effectively. Second, the project will fund short-term
management training for staff at director level and above and other staff expected to be promoted to
this level in 2-3 years (750 staff-months). Third, the project will fund short-term overseas training
for selected Finance Directorate staff to build their capabilities in modern financial management,
treasury function, and cost-accounting (100 staff-months).



- 88 -                                EX  II
Page 8 of 24
Participatio
S.         'he sdoction of appropriate staff will be through TELKOM's system of job-performance
evauation, career development and succession planning. Candidates selected for master's degree
programs will need to satisfy the entrance requirements for these programs. A minimum of 8
feltowships will be allocated to staff of the Finance Department to pursue master's degree courses in
business administration, with a major in finance.



- 89 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 9 of 24
D. TERMS OF REFERENCE
TO SUPPORT DECENTRALIZATION PROGRAM
Introduction
1.1 The traditional highly centralized organization of the Indonesian
Telecommunications Authority, formerly known as PERUMTEL, proved inadequate to
cope with telecommunications development in Indonesia. Telephone availability
and service quality are unsatisfactory, and the organization has a very high
ratio of staff to working lines. The Government has changed the legal status
of this body to state-owned limited liability corporation, PT Telekomunikasi
Indonesia, or TELKOM. The management of TELKOM has taken a number of policy
decisions and actions to decentralize management to empower regional
e"acutives to play more effective roles in planning and providing service,
improving quality, and lifting productivity and overall performance.
Obiective
1.2 To support the move coward a flexible and responsible decentralized
structure TELKOM proposes to appoint an experienced consulting firm to assist
it in implementing a program of Performance Improvement and Human Resources
Development. The Consultant shall be required to undertake the following
tasks:
Task A:
Design and implement a system for the setting of quantitative
performance objectives and the measurement of results;
Task B:
Develop and implement Human Resources Management policies and procedures,
encompassing organization, training, personal performance appraisal and
personal development;
Task C:
Extend, refine and superv-se the integration of the existing Manpower
Model, Employee Information System and Payroll System to provide
information support to other tasks and to line management;
Task D:
Develop and implement a program of productivity and quality improvement,
encompassing critical analysis of existing working methods, improvement
of operating and control systems, including management of supplier and
contractor relationship--, and provide training necessary for effective
implementation;
Task E:
Develop systems, software and a TELKOM t -- to support the planning of
the developing network capable of dealing with the issues of scoping,
financing and technology evaluation and selection, providing network
architecture and capacity plans at two years intervals, initially through
2000.



- 90 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 10 of 24
Human Resources Planning
1.3 In 1991 TELKOM initiated a program to improve the planning and control of
human resources referred to as Human Resource Model, or HRMt. Work was carried
out in Jakarta to identify the actual composition of staff and the nature of
their work, and to prepare a forecast of staffing requirements by job and
training and recruitment by occupational category. Preliminary findings
confirm previous assessments that staffing is unbalanced, and the organization
faces a major task in reallocating and retraining existing personnel. One
preliminary forecast indicates that it should be possible to triple
productivity by the year 2000, but this still requires the recruitment of some
50,000 new workers nationally, and up to 10,000 in Jakarta. A detailed
training and recruitment plan will be available when the consultant commences
work.
Management Information
1.4 There is very little useful information available to managers. Existing
reports are primarily financial and statistical, and virtually nothing has
been done to provide information tailored to the needs of individual middle
and senior executives. No information is readily available on performance in
handling service complaints or requests. Statistics on faults are very
general, and unreliable. The existing Personnel Information System (SIMPEG)
cannot provide information on where employees work and what they do. This
information is being provided by a parallel system, the HRM, but the HRR at
this point is still a working prototype. As a result there is a very great
need for systems integration, and the provision of information which will
allow managers to monitor business performance.
Network Planning. Development and Maintenance
1.5 Responsibility for the network is divided between Development, concerned
with major new projects, and Operations and Engineering, responsible for
optimizing the existing network. No one is clearly responsible for dealing
with the fundamental issues of network architecture, scoping, technology and
financing, sometimes referred to as capacity management. Various groups deal
with various aspects, and results are often incompatible. There is an urgent
need to pull together all significant aspects of network development, and
mechanisms to ensure that new construction is fully specified, built to
specification, and handed over with all resources needed for ongoing
maintenance.
Scope of Work
1.6 The initial assignment will focus on Jakarta Region, which is expected to
cover the enti.'e Metropolitan Jakarta area, including the West Java cities of
Bekasi, Bogor and Tangerang. On this basis Jakarta metropolitan area will
have just over 50X of all working lines, a share expected to be maintained
through 2000. However, the consultant will, in the course of the assignment,
develop a program for the rollout of the work done in Jakarta to other
regions. Rollout could commence in 1993.
1.7 TELKOM's long term goal is the strengthening of management capabilities
and systems throughout the country. However, it is recognized that this is a
complex task, dealing with entrenched practices and cultural issues.



- 91 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 24
Moreover, approaches which prove successful in Jakarta may not be directly
transferable to other environments. Based on past experience uniformity as
such is not an objective. Accordingly, it will be necessary for the
consultant to allocate resources to assess the question of variability, and
take it into account when submitting rollout proposals.
1.8 The details of the individual tasks in the total Scope of Work are given
below:
Task A: Performance Objectives and Measurement
1.9 The consultants shall review, analyze and define explicitly the
managerial functions required for the development and provision of
telecommunications services in Indonesla. In particular, the consultant
shall:
a)    work with TELKOM Directors and senior executives to define and
articulate the corporate mission and objectives, and the key roles
to be played;
b)    on this basis, define the key accountabilities and performance;
c)    develop a management reporting system which focuses on key issues,
and provides information needed to support quick a-d decisive
action. The monitoring systems must encompass not only day-to-day
activities, but also longer term or leading indicators which reflect
achievement in long-term development;
d)    lead a TELKOM team in the implementation of the system;
e)    work with senior executives to ensure that the reporting system is
fully understood and used in practice; and
f)    identify and implement modifications found to be necessary.
Task B: Human Resources Management Policies and Procedures
2.0   The consultant shall review all aspects of Human Resources Management
and design and implement programs to overcome existing deficiencies. In
particular the consultant shall:
a)    work with regional executives to refine the new organization in
Jakarta, which will also constitute an input to Task A: above;
b)    lead a team of TELKOM personnel in the preparation of realistic and
informative job descriptions, which integrate with the Manpower
Model and support the process analysis work of Task D;
c)    prepare a Training Needs Analysis, specifying the training inputs
needed to recycle existing personnel and cope with the very large
staff buildup currently projected;



- 92 -                           ANEX 11
Page 12 of 24
d)    design and detail programs to deliver the training needed;
e)    lead the TELKOM team charged with delivering the new training;
f)    set up processes to ensure that training needs and results are
monitored on an ongoing basis, amd programs modified systematically
to meet needs;
g)    design and implement a realistic personal performance appraisal
system;
h)    design and implement procedures for progression planning for
potential key executives;
i)    review the existing system of salary and benefits, carry out job
evaluation and grading, analyze relevant aspects of the general
labor market in Jakarta, and prepare detailed recommendations for a
grading and remuneration structure;
J)    taking into account all relevant information, including recycling,
historic recruitment problems and media issues, prepare a program
for recruitment, in full detail for one year ahead, and quantified
by quarters to the limit of the manpower planning horizon; and
k)    examine existing recruitment methods, including advertising, forms,
processing of applications, testing and interviewing, and design and
lead the implementation of alternate methods. This should include
specialized techniques for the high volume positions, such as
outside plant technicians.
Task C: Human Resource Management Model
2.1   The existing prototype provides needed basic information on employees,
but requires considerable development to meet all key needs. In particular
the consultant shall:
a) update the existing Human Resources Dictionary;
b) set up links to the job descriptions prepared in Task B;
c) work with Information Technology Center staff to sot up links to
employee work histories;
d) *set up links to the Task A performance monitoring system to provide
more accurate information on work load indicators;
e) provide routines to assist "what if" analysis of options in
technology/manpower/skill tradeoffs; and
f) prepare a functional brief for the development of an integrated Human
Resources Information system encompassing the Human Resource Model,
SIMPEG and payroll, with links to other systems.



- 93 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 13 of 24
Task D: Productivity and Oiality Improvement
2.2   Virtually all systems and procedures are in need of renewal and
simplification, while maintaining adequate security for the company's assets.
The consultant shall:
a) proceed from the high level functional analysis of Task A, prepare a
detailed functional analysis down the level of physical work;
b) lead a team of TELKOM personnel to prepare detailed process charts,
task identification, workload estirates and performance standards;
c) review and redesign project management and control systems,
encompassing contract administration procedures;
d) initiate and maintain an ongoing process for the refinement of
performance standards, encompassing both volume and quality
considerations;
e) develop and pilot new systems initiatives in customer-impinging
activities, technical areas and internal office administration;
f) examine opportunities for subcontracting and outsourcing as
alternatives to employing additional staff, and make specific
recommendations for new initiatives and needed control procedures;
g) design and deliver training needed to ensure that supervisors and
middle managers understand the new approaches, and their own roles and
managerial responsibilities; and
h) monitor performance and guide managers to take necessary actions.
Task E: Network Planning and Development
2.4   The consultant shall develop a computer-based modelling system capable
of dealing with a range of options, determining capacities, capital costs and
operation costs. It shall also support a range of tariff options, and be
capable of generating cash flow forecasts. In particular, the cor.sultant
shall:
a) spe-cify and design the basic modelling system, including procurement
of ioftware and hardware, and the training of key TELKOM staff;
b) work with TELKOM network planners to develop plausible options for
network architecture;
c) develop scenarios for 1994, 1996, 1998 and 2000;
d) work with TELKOM technical staff to identify plausible technology
options, including capital, staffing and operating costs;
e) carry out analysis and financial evaluation to allow selection of
optimal architecture and technology options;



-94-                              ANNEX 11
Page 14 of 24
f) using tariff options, examine the financial feasibility of meeting
demand within various time frames;
g) detail and document the top-ranking options for decisions at policy-
making level; and
h) set up procedures for and train TELKOM staff in annual update
procedures.
Time Frame for thn Consultant's Assignment
2.5   It is estimated that about 160 man-months of consulcants' services
would be required for the to_ai assignment of five tasks. The total time
frame for each of the five tasks are assessed by TELKOM as follows:
Task A: Performance Objectives and Measurement                      15 months
Task B: HR Management Policies and Procedures                      24 months
Task C: Manpower Management Model                                  21 months
Task D: Productivity and Quality Improvement                       21 months
Task E: Network Planning and Development
Initial development                                         8 months
Followup                                                    1 month



- 95 -                           ANEX 11
Page 15 of 24
E. TERMS OF REFERENCE
TO INTRODUCE
INTEGRATED NETWORK MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (IMS)
Introduction:
1.1. The existing method of manual monitoring and central of local and long
distance networks in Indonesia have proven inadequate under normal traffic
conditions, and, more so under conditions of unforseen traffic loads. To
aderess this situation, TELKOM proposes to establish Integrated Network
Management Systems in Jakarta, Surabaya, Medan, Bandung, Ujung Pandang and
Banjermasin for monitoring the performance of the local and long distance
network and providing a real time surveillance and control over network
components so as to optimize the call carrying capacity in a network under
traffic overload or facility failures.
1.2   Obiectives
To meet the above obJectives, TELKOM has decided to adopt the ATT (MFOS)
system, and now proposes to appoint an experienced consulting firm to assess
it in the complementation of the IMS System. The consultant shall be required
to undertake the following three tasks:
Task A:   Define and specify system requirements, and design integrated
Network
Management System(s) for the local and the long-distance networks.
Task B: Assist TELKOM in acceptance testing of the system installed by the
contractor.
Task C: Assist TELKOM in implementation of the uperational procedures
associated with the IMS.
ScoRe of Work
1.3   The details of the individual tasks in the total Scope of Work are
given below:
Task A: Definition and Design of the Network Management System
1.4   Task a-i: Appraisal of the Present Network:  The consultants shall
review tee TELKOM's current operational and maintenance practices and
procedures in the existing local dnd long distance networks, including links
to the international gateway exchanges. In particular, the consultants shall:
a) study the existing organizational structure and operational procedures,
with particular reference to the network management needs;
b) study the actual traffic performance of the network from sample
inspections and performance indicators;
c) study the current network performance targets, service objectives, design
criteria and the network engineering methodology in use;



- 96 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 16 of 24
d) study the existing equipment types to assess the dormant facilities
available and useful for network management, and identify additional
facilities needed for providing the necessary network management
capability, indicators and controls; and
e) analyze the existing local and long distance networks to assess their
structures and the extent of network management and control facilities
currently available, the extent of their usage and their effectiveness.
1.5   Task A-2: Suitability of Existing Facilities for IMS: The consultants
shall review and analyze the existing local, tandem and long distance exchange
types for their suitability for the IMS and recommend on the following:
a) exchange with current available facilities suitable for effective network
management (NM);
b) exchanges where adequate facilities can be provided through additions or
modifications at reasonable cost;
c) trunk, tandem and key local exchanges essential to IMS which require
significant redesign and modifications in order to provide NM facilities;
and
d) exchange types and their locations management where provision of network
management facility could be deferred pending replacement of the
equipment.
1.6   In respect of (b) and (c) above, the consultants shall assess the
relative costs of providing add-on equipment versus modification of the
existing exchange equipment to provide the necessary IMS capability keeping in
view any need for modification of proprietary equipment of the original
suppliers, and make appropriate recommendations.
1.7   The consultants shall make recommendations in respect of the
transmission equipment in the local inter-exchange networks and in the long-
discance networks for their effective integration in the IMS.
1.8   Task A-3: Recommendations on Network Management Structure: Following
the analysis of the existing networks and taking into account the planned
network changes (expansion and replacements) up to 1996, the consultants EnaUl
make proposals for structuring the IMS, incluaing the locations of the
national, regional, and local IMS centers. The consultants shall propose
alternatives for regional, shared and hierarchical development of the IMS with
recommendations for a preferred option. TELKOM desires that the IMS should be
introduced from the highest to the lowest level in the network hierarchy, that
is, Main, Primary and Secondary centers (corresponding respectively to the
Tertiary, Secondary and Primary as per CCITT nomenclature) and terminal
exchanges. The alternative methods proposed should be fully argued and
supported by cost-benefit and other data, and the advantages and disadvantages
of each. The IMSs proposed should minimize costs and maximize effectiveness;
allow progressive evolution and improvement of the system; shall be capable of
upgradation for the ongoing digitalization of TELKOM's networks and extension
to new networks that may be established as part of the normal national
development in future.



- 97 -                            ANNEX 11
Pag. 17 of 24
1.9   With the above obi-l 'ves in view, the consultants shall undertake
the following:
a) recommend the most "ppropriate effective Ne-#ork Management System(s)
arrangements for the local and long distance networks, keeping in view the
current Indonesian operations, including but not limited to the following:
i) details of the scope, structure, facilities for the proposed IMSs
and the associated control centers;
ii) number location, type and hierarchy of the proposed local and long
distance IMS centers, including the relationship between them;
iii) the effect of the proposed IMSs on the current and planned local,
long distanc- and international networks and the existing operational
procedures fnr thAse networks; and
iv) the methodology for the incorporation of the different networks in
the first phase IMS;
b) provide cost estimates for different options for the types of IMSs with
different degrees of sophistication, etc. that could be introduced;
c) assess the modifications and improvements required ir. the existing
local and long distance networks and operational procedures for successful
introduction of network management;
d) recommend the types of data that would be needed by the IMS from the
on-site maintenance, traffic, engineering and management staff; the methods
and procedures for collecting the required data (keeping in view the current
network elements); and an indication of the minimum requirement for each of
the data sets;
e) recommend the method and degree of data analysis and dissemination,
including the modification of the existing or the need for a new Management
Information System; and
f) recommend minimum functional requirements for the equipment at the IMS
centers.
2.0   The consultants' recommendations for the local and long distarnce IMSs,
the associated data analysis systems and for the upgradation of the existing
or new Management Information Systems must be supported by a cost benefit
analysis and rate of return estimates. Adequate justification must be given
if consultants believe reliable rate of return estimates are not possible.
2.1   Task A-4: Network Modifications and New ORerational Procedures:  The
consultants shall cover the following in their proposals:
a) identify the potential problem areas in the existing local and long
distance networks which may inhibit their incorporation into the INS and
specify, where necessary and needed, the modifications to their current



- 98 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 18 of 24
structures to make thera suitable for the proposed IMS, bu-. ensure that these
are restricted to only the most essential;
b) specify new operational procedures and techniques specific to the
existing and proposed TELKOM networks and operating procedures necessary for
effective operation cf the proposed IMS;
c) identify s ,pects of the existing organizational arrangements and
operational pro' idures which may inhibit effective operation of the proposed
local and long distance Network Management Centers, and recommend improvements
and new equipment and facilities needed for introducing such improvements; and
d) specify responsibility and line of command for the Network Management
Centers; techniques and responsibilities for coordination; procedures (normal,
for planned bearer outages and for unplanned outages); and organization.
(Note: The consultants should keep in view the existing maintenance
organizations and procedures when proposing new arrangements).
2.2   TELKOM's Review of Ccnsultants' Proposals under Task A
2.2.1 TELKOM will review the consultants' proposals and recommendations on
the above aspects and, after discussions with the consultants, decide on the
scope and type of local and long distance Network Management Systems to be
introduced, the associated data analysis to be employed, incorporation of the
data into the existing exchanges and Management Information System, and the
extent of modifications to the existing network structures and equipment it
would undertake to make them suitable for incorporation into the agreed
Network Management Systems.
2.2.2 Thereafter, based on the consultants' estimates of the costs of the
introduction of the agreed local and long-distance Network Management Systems
and the availability of funds, TELKOM will decide on the target networks to be
covered by the IMS in the initial phase which may or may not cover all the
networks specified in para. 10 above or that recommended by the consultants
(para.ll). Based on this decision, the consultants shall proceed with Task B,
namely the preparation of the technical specifications and schedule of
equipment quantities.
Task B: Assistance to TELKOM in Acceptance Testing of the Installed System
2.3 The consultants shall be required to assist TELKOM in general
supervision of the supplier's performance of the contract to ensure that the
facilities and equipment being installed are in accordance with the contract.
The consultants shall also be required to assist TELKOM in the final
acceptance testing of the system as it is offered by the contractor before
commissioning and to ensure that the performance of the equipment meets the
specified criteria, and confirm to the TELKOM that it can sign-off on the
performance guarantee provided by the contractor.



- 99 -                           ANNEX 11
Page 19 of 24
Task C: Assistance to TELKQM Staff in Implewentation of the New Operational
Procedures associated with the Integrated Network Management Syster4
2.4   Two types of operational procedures are envisaged, for both of which
the consultants will be required to assist TELKOM, namely (a) those that
relate to operation of the hardware of the IMS; and (b) those that impact on
the existing organizational structure and operational procedures. The latter
would include any changes required in the existing or planned networks for
effective incorporation into the IMS. The above two requirements may
necessitate changes in the reporting procedures within the TELKOM and could
also precipitate some organizational changes. The contractor for the hardware
will be required as a part of his contract to assist TELKOM with the IMS
operation for 6-12 months after its commi_sioning. However, the TELKOM may
require the consulte.ats to assist in fine tuning the new IMS and in
implementing the new operational procedures and any changes to the TELKOM's
organizational structure and operational framework propcsed by the consultants
and accepted by TELKOM.
2.5   It is estimated that about 100 man-months of consultant services would
be required for the total assignment of three tasks.



- 100 -                             ANNEX 11
Page 20 of 24
F. TERMS OF REFERENCE
TO STRENGTHEN FINANCE DIRESCTORATE
Background
1.    PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TELKOM) was established as a government
owned limited liability company under Notarial deed Mrs. Imas Fatimah Jakarta
on September 24, 1991, with the responsibility for the planninx  construction
and operation of domestic te'Lecommunications facilities.  As -   aited
liability company, TELKOM is accountable to the Ministry of F. nce. However,
the Ministry of Finance has delegated the supervisory authority to the
Ministry of Tourism, Posts and Telecommunications. TELKOM is managed by a
Board of Directors, headed by a President-Director. The President-Director
has authority for all operations of TELKOM. The Board currently includes five
other directors with functional responsibility, respectively, for development,
engineering and operations, finance, administration and logistics.
Operational responsibility devolves to 12 regions, and responsibility for
major development projects to 3 project-managers. Also reporting to the Board
are several staff units responsible for Corporate Planning, Research and
Development, Education and Training, Information Technology, and the Corporate
Inspectorate, an internal audit-unit.
2.    The Finance Directorate consists of four subdirectorates, Budgeting,
Financial Accounts, Treasury and Financial Administration.   To improve the
timeliness of accounting data and preparation of financial management reports,
a new chart of accounts based on the concept of responsibility accounting was
introduced in early 1989 in TELKOM's head office and all regional offices. A
computerized general ledger program was implemented in head office and
regional offices. These initiatives have helped to reduce the time and effort
required to prepare financial reports and financial accounts for 1989 and 1990
were closed within three months of the end of the year.
3.    Although the financial acc)unting function has improved in the past
three years, financial data have not yet been used effectively by TELKOM's
management as a tool for operational control due to the weaknesses in TELKOM's
internal financial and management systems and a lack of adequate qualified
staff in the Finance Departmen% both at the headquarter and regions. Current
management accounts are being ,.epared in a piecemeal basis with each
subdirectorate preparing their own management accounts and information
reports. There is no one unit under the Finance Department responsible for
preparing corporate management accounts. In addition, TELKOM does not have
cost accounting system in place and therefore does not have accurate
information on the cost of different services and activities and cannot
identify accurately the profitability of the telephone offices and the
regional offices. In light of the change in status as well as the TELKOM
management's decision to reorganize into six independently operating regions
and 43 Strategic Business Units instead of the current functional sL.ructure,
it is important that a cost accounting system be established in TELKOM. In
addition, the treasury function in TELKOM needs to be strengthened to operate
as a commercial entity so that it can assess the best financing techniques for
its development, issue securities (eventually equity), manage its cash and
liabilities and foreign exchange exposure.



- 101 -                           AEE
Page 21 of 24
4.    The technical assistance component under the World Bank financed Third
Telecommunications Project is assisting TELKOM to upgrade the skills of the
Finince Department and build the capacity of TELKOM's management to use
financial data in the management of its operations through the provision of
overseas fellowships and secondments to other telecommunications organizations
for TELKOM managers and Finance Department staff. Financial expert has also
been provided under the project to help improve TELKOM's financial forecasting
ard management in cash management. In addition, financial consultants
financed under bi-lateral sources as well as TELKOM's own funds are also
assisting TELKOM to review and develop financial systems and procedures.
5.    A team of four experts will be required for a period of two years with
the possibility of a six months extension to assist TELKOM to strengthen its
management accounting and treasury functions and establish a cost accolunting
system. The team along with key TELKOM staff will review and recommend the
necessary policies, systems and procedures as well as the appropriate
organization setup to carry out these functions. The team will also be
required to assist TELKOM in implementing the agreed recommendations.
6.    One expert will be the team leader and will be responsible for
coordinating the work of the team and ensure that the tasks are carried out
effectively. The other three team members will consist of a management
accountant, a cost accountant and treasury management expert. Each expert
will be attached to a deputy directors in the Finance Department in the
headquarters. Review and implementation of systems and procedures will be
carried out with TELKOM counterparts staff from the headquarter and the
regional offices. In addition, each expert will also be required to undertake
any other related tasks that the deputy directors they are assigned to
requests.
Transfer of Know-how and Training
7.    An essential and key element of the consultants' total assignment shall
be the upgrading and development of TELKOM's human resources through transfer
of know-how and training of TELKOM's staff in all aspects of the work
undertaken by the consultants in Indonesia. The transfer of know-how and
training of TELKOM's staff shall cover but not be limited to techniques and
shall include mode of updating these systems and procedures.
8.    The consultants shall prepare a detailed plan for transfer of know-how
and training which is a major task of their assignment. The transfer of know-
how can be through training courses to be conducted in TELKOM's training
school and/or through on-the-job training. The training plan should be
designed with the objective that, on completion of the consultants'
assignment, the TELKOM staff shall have developed inherent capability of
implementing independently the consultants' recommendation and managing the
systems implemented without substantial further external technical assistance.
9.    The consultants shall review the availability of TELKOM's staff to act
as counterparts, specify the required qualifications for each such staff,
assist TELKOM in selecting such staff from within TELKOM or through outside
recruitment and, if necessary, recommend foreign training of TELKOM staff in
specific disciplines.



- 102 -                          ANNEX 11
Page 22 of 24
10.    The specific tasks and the responsibilities associated with the three
experts and their qualifications are set out below.
Expert 1: Team Leader
11.    The team leader will be responsible for coordinating the work of the
team and ensure that the tasks are carried out effectively by the other three
team members and report directly to Director Finance. In addition, the team
leader will be fully responsible to ensure that transfer of know and training
of TELKOM staff are carried out effectively. The specific task and
responsibility will include, inter alia, the following:
- coordinate the work of the team;
- prepare and coordinate the transfer of know and training and ensure it
is carried out successfully;
- prepare the monthly/quarterly progress reports for the assignment, with
targets and achievements, problems and future targets;
- other related work to ensure successful implementation of the tasks of
the team;
- other related work as assigned by the Director Finance.
12.    Requirements:  A qualified accountant or an MBA graduate with over
five years experience as a financial manager in a telecommunications entity
and relevant work experience in a developing country. The assignment is
expected to start on January 1, 1993 and be for a period of about two years.
As the position requires an unusual amount of time and resources for staff
development and training, candidates with a track record and/or capacities in
these areas would be preferred.
Expert 2: Management Accountant
13.    Objectiye:  The objective of the task is to str_.ngthen the management
accounting system to ensure that management reporting and control systems are
in place to monitor TELKOM's performance and to enable TELKOM's management to
take the necessary and timely corrective actions.
14.    Scope of Work:  The expert will lead a group of TELKOM staff in
carrying out, inter alia, the following:
- review of the budgeting proe-ess and reports and assist in
implementation of the agreed recommendations;
- review of the existing policies, systems and procedures in management
accounting and assist in implementing the agreed recommendations;
- review the financial man.gement systems and procedures to monitor and
control the actual performance against budget targets:
- recommend and establish a performance monitoring system for Strategic
Business Units for senior management;



- 103 -                          ANNEX 11
Page 23 of 24
- review appropriate organization setup to carry out these functions and
assist in the implementation of agreed recommendations;
- carry out a job analysis to identify the staffing needs to maintain
management accounting systems and related functions and prepare the
training programs and provide the training;
- assist in preparing monthly, quarterly and annual operational and
development management reports for senior management.
15.    In carrying out the above tasks, the expert should review the work
being undertaken as well as have been undertaken to improve the system by
TELKOM and external consultants.
16.    Reguirements:  A qualified accountant with over ten years experience
as management accountant and relevant work experience in a telecommunications
entity and developing country. The assignment is expected to start on January
1, 1993 and be for a period of about two years. As the position requires an
unusual amount of time and resources for staff development and training,
candidates with a track record and/or capacities in these areas would be
preferred.
ExDert 3 - Cost Accountant
17.    Objective:  The objective of this task is to establish a cost
accounting system to enable TELKOM to account cost by elements, different
activities and services and regional offices and UPTs in order to carry out
cost and profitability analysis and control.
18.    Scope of Work:  The expert will lead a group of TELKOM staff carrying
out, inter alia, the following:
- review policies, systems and procedures in setting up cost accounting
and assist in the implementation of agreed recommendations;
- review cost and profitability analysis and control system and assist in
the implementation of agreed recommendations;
- review appropriate organization setup to carry out these functions and
assist in the implementing of agreed recommendations;
- carry out a job analysis to identify the staffing needs to establish
and maintain a cost accounting system and related functions and prepare
the training programs and provide the training;
- assist in preparing the cost accounting reports for senior
management.
- An appropriate organization setup to carry out this function needs to
be recommended and implemented



- 104 -                           AEX 11
Page 24 of 24
19.    In carrying out the above tasks, the expert will review any work being
undertaken as well as have been undertaken to setup a cost accounting the
system by TELKOM and external consultants.
20.    Requirements:  A qualified accountant with over ten years experience
as cost accountant and relevant work experience in a telecommunications entity
and developing country environment. The assignment is expected to start on
January 1, 1993 and be for a period of about two years. As the position
requires an unusual amount of time and resources for staff development and
training, candidates with a track record and/or capacities in these areas
would be preferred.
Expert 4: Treasury Manageme;t Expert
21.    Obsective:  The objective of this task is to strengthen TELKOM's
treasury function to enable it to operate as a commercial entity so that it
can assess the best financing techniques for its development, issue securities
(eventually equity), manage its cash and liabilities and foreign exchange
exposure.
22.    ScoRe of Work:  The expert will lead a group of TELKOM staff to  carry
out, inter alia, the following:
- review the existing policies, systems and procedures in treasury
management and assist in the implementation of agreed recommendations;
- review appropriate organization setup to carry out these functions and
assist in the implementation of agreed recommendations;
- carry out a job analysis to identify the staffing needs for treasury
management and prepare the training programs and provide the training;
- assist in preparing the reports related to the functions to be
carried out for senior management.
23.    In carrying out this task the expert will review work being undertaken
as well as have been undertaken to improve the system by TELKOM and external
consultants.
24.    Reauirements:  A qualified accountant with over five years experience
as a treasury manager and relevant work experience in a developing country.
The assignment is expected to start on January 1, 1993 and will be for a
period of about two years. As the position requires an unusual amount of time
and resources for staff development and training, candidates with a track
record and/or capacities in these areas would be preferred.



- 105 -
INDONESIA                                   AMEX 12
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT   page l of 2
PROCUREMENT PACKAGES AND SCHEDULE
BID PACKAGES          OF             199119293
1OSP -lIst Phase              R
Supporting Facilities
a. Bidding
b. Evaluatin
a. Approval
d. Contract Discusson
0. EDC
2PO2nd Phase
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
c. Approval
3 -552 K 2nd Phase              O
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
c. Approval
4L Contract Discussion
.. EDC
4Bal Nusa Tenggara Digita FRANO
MW .+ Supporting FealtIe
a. Bikdig
8. Evaluation
a. Approval
cL Contract Discussin
0. EDC
Trans Suiawesi Phase 11 FRAME
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
4L Contract Discussion
a. EDO
Cross Kalimantan Digita ph ii M
MW + Supporting Faciltes
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
d4 Contrac Discussion
a. EDC
Jabotabok Transmission     OC
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
d4 Contiact Discussion
.. EDO
Remote Area Projec
a. Bidding
8. Evaluation
a. Approval
4L Contrac Discussion
*. EDO



INDONESIA                                 ANEX12
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT page 2 of 2
PROCUREMENT PACKAGES AND SCHEDULE
BID PACKAGES   5OFRI              1911*1i93~
FUD12 3145617151101111 121341516781011 t2 1283   5   7   00 112
0 Construcion SupoivwsMr
for OSP
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
d. Conftra  Discusson
o. EDO
10 ComputerizationOR
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
o. Approval
d. Contrac Discuso
0. EDO                                                             .       .   .   .   ..           .   .
11 Malmntaanon Equipment      mOR
a. BiddingInI
b. Evaluation
c. Approval
4L Contrac Dhiscusio
12 Java -Ball ProjerFRNC
MW +i Supporting Facilifes
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
4 Contrac DiscusinW
0. EDO
I3 MS Consultan
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
d Contrac DiscssinW
a. EDO
'4 CS for Transmissin
MW.+ Suppotidng Faciltie
a. Biwing
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
4L Contrac Discussio
si.EDCIII                                                                                           I
isCs for Switching
a. Bkkging
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
4L Contro  Discuso
a.EDO
16 OM ford pmojegm
a. Bidding
b. Evaluation
a. Approval
cL Contrac Discussion
0. EDO



- 107 -
ANNEX 13
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Asia
Bank        Semer                  Disbursement            Cumulatve     Telecom.
FY      No.  Ending         Semester      Cumulative                   Sector Profile
1993     I Dec. 31, 1992   0.0              0.0               0.0           0
II June 30, 1993  5.0              5.0               1.3           10
1994     I D'x. 31, 1993   5.0              10.0              2.6           14
1 June 30, 1994   5.0              15.0              4.0           30
1995     I Dec. 31, 1994    30.0            45.0              12.0          42
II June 30, 1995    40.0           85.0             22.7           54
1996     I Dec. 31, 1995    50.0           135.0             36.0           62
11 June 30, 1996    50.0          185.0             49.3           74
1997     I Dec. 31, 1996    50.0           235.0             62.7           82
H June 30, 1997    50.0           285.0             76.0           86
1998     I Dec. 31, 1997    40.0           325.0             93.0           98
II June 30, 1998    50.0          375.0             100.0         100



- 108 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
1. SWIlCHING
Yr         1991         1992         1993         1994        1996         1996
CodeNo./Pft          i  i  i  i  i  i  i  i  I  I  i  i  I  I  i  i  I  I          i  i l  l    I l
101 8TD1-11Dg.P1LVIIA    +          +      -+                                         +             +
102 LTG -O(IgIdThmk)   +                                     4.+          +           +             +
103 10-2 (OMTRA)       +                                                  +           +             +
104 sT    2(+)        +4
105 ST  - 3 (NUM)      +                                                  +            +            +
(.) :biui
~m EOC)
. OSP (Looal Network  Junctions + Supporting Facdlles)
v.,,       1991         1992         1993         1994        1996         1996
00d No. /Pralad    !II   I  i   i         i    i    i   i  i  iii  ii  i  ii   i        i   i:i 
/p ~ ~~                ()        _________ _ _ _____r_r_
20tfme 1BeR& NuSa Two      *Is)    O +  +                                                  +'+
+ (bdo      +  ( 
202 K    _Antut            + *(l      (+,* +                                                             +
+ (b             ()                           ,+
203 Sulsw,e Malw & klan J.   + (t)    (+                                                   +             +
+ ancd       +   )        ,+
24 SuWpmig + E             +                                                               +             +
n. c_nsudIn SUPaHn         +                                                                 '+
For201.202.& 203                                                                                    +
mm=%



- 109 -
ANNEX 14
INDONESIA                                         Page 2 of 2
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
3 EXPANSION OF MULTI - EXCHANGE AREA
Ye.         100k1         10092        1003          1004         19R16         100
CodNo./Pvow           l l  ll       lm            im           120           lo l  l
301 JABOTASEK             4o,+                                                                              +
4. TRANSMON
Yw          1901          1002         19W3         1994          1006         1
RAo'                       III                  II  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I
Rak               i  i  i      fi  !  i  i  i  i   r i  i  !  i  i       I        T       -        !  
401  nd Jga-BdfExPIn  +                +                                                                   +
402  o - Nt-aTaWguPh     - I *         +                                                                   +
403 TS_ ,-6uiu    h-U     +            +                                                                   +
404 Cm" Ka  m     u I Ph - 11  +       +                                                                   +4
406 RmteArmPh -M +.                    +                                                     +
406 CoElunlon Super4on   .             +
407 Supptng F             ..    -
L MANTENANCE NEEDS
Ye_         1001          1992         1003         1004          1006         1006
I  ,  I  I, I    I ,  ,  ,  ,  ,       I   1111,             -I,-, ---,-,fI-,l,--
Ye       lm r           |{|         l   'lll'      lo                      lo"r 
w spwoP                   + f                                     +             +            +       
S02 Toole                 *             )                         +             +            +             +
803 Toot Ew  nw'                                                  +                          +
S. COMPUTRIZAMON
Yaw         11            192          103          10"4          19           19
JIl  J  IIII   II  IlII I III I I I I 1
601 T d                   * 
hwagMam New*  (MS                 +                                         +                          +
O2 hoayInqib              4           +         )
SyUsm Upade                                                   +                                        +
4.            4
7. TECHNICAL ASSISANCE               0           99            93lo                      o             o
,  W >    N t^            s",100       1002          100          100           10699
Yew    I I     I      I     I    I     I     I     I     I     I     I     I     I     I     I     I  1     1     1     1     1     1     1 - 
701 Fdaw pl/TM g          +  +                                                                             +
702 Coeuiwi Se,l           ,                   ,                                                           +
703 D Oa4mks-.n                                 __
0:) Tondaulfig
;:   hpmuwt.on                                                                  ai



- 110 -
Annex 15
INDONESIA
PT TELEKOUNIIKASI INDONESIA (TELKOM)
.......... ,.......................
FOURTH TELECOMMINICATIONS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                    1992     1993     1994     1995     1996
1. Automatlc Exchange Capacity                      2,015    2,515    3,015    3,515    4.015
Maanual Exchange Capacity                           30       10        0        0         0
Total Exchange Capacity (C000s)                  2,045    2,525    3,015    3,515    4,015
2. Additional Auto Lines Connected                    300      350      400      450      500
Additional Marual Lines Connected                  (15)      (7)       0        0         0
Total Main Lines Connected ('000G)                 285      343      400      450      500
3. Total Auto Main Lines                            1,509    1,859    2,259    2,709    3,209
Total Manual Main Lines                             22        7        0        0        0
Total Main Lines Exc. RSA (C000s)                1,531    1,866    2,259    2,709    3,209
4. Other Services
Data Subscribers ('000s)                           1.0      1.5      2.0      2.5      3.0
Payphone ( 000s)                                  45.0     60.0     75.0     90.0   105.0
WARTELs ('000s)                                    0.8      1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0
5. Quality of ServIce
No. of Faults                                      6.5      6.0      5.8      5.5      5.0
(per 100 sub/month)
Effective Call Comqpletion Rate (X) Jakarta
- Local                                            30X       35X      42X      48X      50X
- National Long Distance                           25X       30X      35X      39X      42K
6. Staffing/ 1,000 Main Lines                          27       23       21       19        16
7. Revenues (Rp. '000)
op Revenue/Av Main Line         Constant '91    1,480    1,333    1,268    1,168    1,087
Current    1,569    1,497    1,510    1,475    1,454
Telephone Rev./Av Main Line     Constant '91    1,325    1,198    1,152    1,072    1,005
Current    1,405    1,347    1,373    1,354    1,345
8. Costs (Rp. '000)
Op Cost/Av Nain Line            Constant '91    1,134    1,000       927      870      806
Current    1,202    1,124    1,104    1,098    1,078
Cash Op Cost/Av Main Line       Constant '91       607      570      538      515      488
Current      644      640      641      651       653
Staff Cost/Av Main Line         Constont '91       357      341      328      320      309
Current      378      383      391      404       413
9. Return on Av. Net Fixed Assets                      24X      26K      28K      28K       29X
10. Net Internal Cash Gen./Avg 2 Years Invest.          43X      43K      42X      47X      48X
11. Debt Service Coverage                              2.9      2.9      3.3      3.4      3.2
12. Current Ratio                                      1.7      1.7      1.8      1.9      2.0
13. Debt/(Debt.Equity)                                  52K      57K      59      60K      60K



- lil -                      ~~~ANNEX 160
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Action Plan
Objective                           Plan of Implementation                Target or Indicator
I. Accountine Systems and Financial Management
1.   Up grad e  F i nanco           Based on ongoing consultants'       Implement agreed program from
Department staff skills.       recommendations, agree on the       FY92 onward.  Progress to be
domestic and overseas training      monitored according to agreed
program.                            reporting requirements throughout
the project period.
2.   Develop   accounting           Review and implement revisions       Review the accounting policies,
policies,  systems  and        to  the  existing  accounting       systems and procedures by June
p r o c e d u r e s  f o r     policies, systems and procedures    1992.  Implement the revisions
decentralized operation.      in  light  of  the  planned          required by December 1992.
decentralization.
3.   Develop cost accounting        Review and implement policies,       Expert to be employed by August
system.                        systems,  procedures,               1992.  Implement the agreed
organizational setup and training   recommendation by June 1993.
for a cost accounting system.
4.   Improve   management           Review and implement policies,       Expert to be employed by August
accounting system.             systems,  procedures,               1992.  Implement the agreed
organizational setup and training   recommendations by June 1993.
to improve management
accounting system.
5.   Improve accounting and         (a)  Implement  SIMAK                Systems to be implemented in 10
financial  management               information systems in aU      WITELs by December 1992 and
information systems.               WITELs.                         in  remaining  2  WITELs by
December 1993. lmplementatio'.
to be completed by Decemser
1993.
(b) Convert PC-based account-
ing and MIS systems at the
telephone offices to operate
on main frame.
6.   Develop treasury function      Review and implement policies,       Expert to be employed by August
to operate on commercial       systems,  procedures,               1992.  Implement the agreed
basis.                         organizational setup and training   recommendations by June 1993.
to improve treasury function.



- 112-                                  ANNEX 16
Objective                           Plan of Implementation               Target or Indicator
7.   D eve lop   fi nan c i a 1     Integrate TELKOM's financial        Expert employed under the Third
forecasting and planning.     model into corporate planning and   Telecommunications Project to
budgeting  cycle.   Implement       assist TELKOM   to  develop
financial model at WITEL level.    financial model by July 1992.
Model to be integrated into
TELKOM planning by December
1992 and implemented at WITEL
level by June 1993.
8.   Continue improvement in       Implement phased billing.            Implement phased billing in six or
billing efficiency.                                               more locations by March 1992
and all locations by December
1993.
9.   R ed u c e  1e v . Is  o f     Continue  actions  taken  by        Reduce  receivables  for  all
government receivables.       TELKOM   in  line  with             government subscribers  to  a
Government decree to improve        maximum  of two months of
receivables  from  Government       billing for the year from 1993.
subscribers.
HI. Institutional StrenatheninF
1.   Design and implement a        Study to assess needs, using        Study according to agreed TOR to
management  information       technical assistance, develop and   be completed by June 30, 1993,
system.                       implementation plan of action.      &  implement pilot project in
Jakarta to proceed thereafter.
2.   Further develop technical      Study methods using technical       Appoint consultants by October
operations  (traffic          assistance, develop a plan of       31, 1992, implementation  to
m o n it o r i n g  a n d     action to improve quality of        proceed thereafter and monitored
engineering)                  service.                            according to agreed reporting
requirements.
III. Human Resources Development and Trainine
1.   Develop a long-term human     Study to assess existing staff       Appoint consultants by December
resource development plan     resources in relation to future skill  31, 1992 to implement agreed
initially for Jakarta.        mix  requirements  including        recommendations.
training, career development and
finalize recommendations by
June 30, 1992 to successfuly
implement  decentralization
program.
2.   Increase  availability  of     Prepare training plan.  Skills      Upgrade training facilities by
competent, trained expert     needed in (a) digital technology    December 31, 1993. Progress to
staff.                        (b) outside plant maintenance and   be monitored  through agreed
(c) network management.            reporting requirements.



- 113 -                                 ANNEX I
Objective                           Plan of Implementation               Target or Indicator
3.   Develop   a  career            (a)  Decide on the field and        Training to commence beginning
succesion plan for the top         numbers to be trained in       September 1993. Progross to be
100  management  in                each fidd.                     monitored  through  agreed
TELKOM.                                                           reporting requirements.
(b) Arrange language training.
Complete language training
(c) Execute plan for selection and  January 31, 1993.
training.
Complete selection by September
30, 1992.
IV. Ooorational Porformanco
;.   Further develop efficiency     (a)  Set network performance        Agreed  indicators  given  in
of operation, quality of           targets, monitor and review    Annex S.
services and responsiveness        performance compared to
to users.                          targets &  determine cor-
rective measures whero
appropriate.
(b)  Decentralizemanagementto       Decentralization  starting  with
the regions                    Jakarta to begin June 1992.
2.   To reduce faults on plants    (c)  Reduce  number  of              5
which cause high  fault            faults/100 phones/month.
incidents: Dropwire, DP
and Indoor Facilities.        (d)  Reduce the time for repair.    80% within 48 hours of reporting.
(e)  Provide intensive training.    S/1000 working lines.
(f)  Prepare network masterplan     Draft plan to be completed by
for Ropelita VI.               October 7, 1992 and final plans to
be completed by April 30, 1993.
3. To improve service to           (a)  Prepare  list  of  (CIC)        January 1993 for Jakarta and
commercially important               customers by account.           Surabaya. June 1993 for other
customers.                                                          msjor cities.
(b) Improve staff skills in
customer orientation.
January 1993.



- 114 -
ANNEX 17
INDONEIIA                      Page 1 of 4
PERUSAKAAN WIN TELEKOQUNMtKAI (PERWITEL)
FOURTH TELECONUtNICATIONS PROJECT
.................................
Historical Income Statements
(Current Rp. Billions)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                      1986      1987      1988      1989       1990       1991  1/
Operating Revenue:_2/
Telephone                                       527.2    623.2       690.6    792.3    1,038.2   1,521.0
Tetlx                                            47.0       53.4      56.2      59.9       67.8       90.2
Telegrm                                           8.8        9.9      11.2      11.4       14.7       18.0
Leased Channel                                   22.3       27.2      29.5      44.4       55.9      41.8
Other Revenues                                     8.8      10.3      12.0      21.5       116.2      66.5
Total Revenue                                      614.2    724.0    799.4       929.4    1,292.8   1,737.5
Operating Expenses:                                                                   4
Personnel                                        152.0     166.6     181.2     254.4      384.1     447.3
General & Administration                         116.2     113.0     112.0     108.8      144.3    236.5
Repair & Maintenance                             84.7       87.3      61.3      55.0       62.7       81.4
DeprecIation 3/                                  108.0     267.9     251.9     294.1      409.5      518.1
Amortization                                      27.2      42.3      23.8      43.1       115.3      63.9
ProvisIons                                         7.1      14.3      10.7      25.3       13.6       14.6
Total Expenses                                    495.2      691.4     641.0     780.7    1,129.5   1,361.8
Net Operating Income                               119.0      32.6     158.5     148.7       163.2     375.8
Interest-LTD                                       38.7       30.6      22.3      66.7       77.1      171.0
Net Non-Operating Income                            91.5      71.0      97.4      88.9      107.6       83.0
Extra OrdInary Gain (Loss)                          16.2      31.1     (51.5)     (9.7)        1.7
Pre-tax Income                                     187.9     104.1     182.1     161.3       195.4     287.8
Income Tax                                         53.8       20.7      70.4      57.9       66.0      100.8
...........  .......  ....... .... .......  ....... .... ....... ....... ... ........... .
Net Incom                                          134.2      83.5     111.7     103.4       129.5     187.0
_1/ Althought PERtITEL was converted to TELKOM on September 23. 1991, the ffnancial statements are
for PERUhTEL for the whole fiscal year.
.2/ Tariffs were Incressed substantialty effective October 1990.
.3/ Depreciation ethod used changed in 1987 from straight line to double declinfng.



- 115 -
ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                      Page 2 of 4
PERUSAHAAN UMUN TELEKONUNIKASI (PERUNTEL)
.........................................
FOURTH TELECOUIUNICATIONS PROJECT
.................................
Historecal Sources and Use of Funds
(Current Rp. Billions)
Fiscal Year Ending DOceber 31                      1986      1987      1988      1989        1990      1991  1/
SOURCES:
Not Income                                         134.2      83.5     111.7     103.4       129.5     187.0
Depreciation                                       108.0    267.9      251.9    294.1        409.5     518.1
Amortization                                        27.2      42.3      23.8      43.1       115.3      63.9
ProvIsions                                           7.1      14.3      10.7      25.3        13.6      14.6
Interest                                           38.7       30.6      22.3      66.7       77.1      171.0
Differed Installation Charge                        22.2      25.4      21.4       4.5       (50.0)     38.9
.............. ......................   ....... ...........   .......  ...........   .......
Internal Cash Ceneratfon                           337.4    464.0    441.8    537.1         694.9    993.4
Equity & Reserves                                   18.2    176.1      120.6      84.6       157.5      36.3
Other Liabilities                                   49.7    (42.1)    (33.4)       2.9        48.0       1.2
Loans                                              118.7    237.1      313.0    355.4       560.4   1,005.3
.. ............. ..........   ....... ...........   .......    ........... ... ....... .
TOTAL SOURCES                                      524.0     835.1     842.0    980.0    1,461.0   2.036.2
=m-uu-M    s      5--     8    3.3       33333    3.33333
APPLICATIONS:
Capital Investment                                 211.4    504.6    568.9       518.3      842.3   1,134.7
001 Development Fund                                67.5      73.8      45.9      61.5       56.8        0.0
Bonus to Employees                                  12.3      13.4       8.3      11.2        16.5      20.7
Pension Plan                                         9.8      10.7       6.7       8.9        2.1        2.6
Social ObjectIve                                     2.5       2.7       1.7       2.2        2.1        2.6
,.................. ........    ...... .........    ......  .........    ......
Total Transfers                                     92.0     100.6      62.6      83.8       77.5       25.9
Debt Service
Interest                                           38.7      30.6      22.3      66.7       77.1      171.0
Principal                                          60.1      65.7      73.6      75.1       261.8    253.1
.......   ....... ... .......  ....... . ... .......  ........... ... .................. ...
Total Debt Service                                  98.9      96.3      95.9     141.8      338.9    424.1
Change In Working CapItal                          101.4      10.6      70.3      (6.1)      (65.7)    237.3
Deffered Charges                                    20.3     122.9      44.3     242.1       268.1     214.1
.......   ....... ... .......  ....... . ... .......  ........... ... .................. ...
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                 524.0     835.1     842.0     980.0    1,461.0   2,036.2
_/ Althought PERtITEL was converted to TELKOM on Septeeber 23, 1991, the fInancaf. statements are
for PERWiTEL for the ihole fiscal year.



- 116 -
ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                      Page 3 of 4
PERUSAHAAN UNU TELEKONUNIKASI CPERUNTEL)
FOURTH TELECONMUNICATIONS PROJECT
.... ........... ........................
Historical Balance Sheets
CCurrent Rp. Billion)
Fsca l Year Ending December 31                     1986      1987      1988      1989       1990       1991 _1/
Current Assats
Cash & Banks                                     115.9      62.5      83.5      62.2       89.6       95.2
Short Term Investment                            445.7    464.5    558.6    619.6         340.3    402.2
Accounts Receivable                              129.9     129.5     147.4       146       160.2     192.5
Other Receivables                                 45.0     106.9     117.0      13.0        3.7       53.9
inventories                                       83.1      69.7      60.6      52.8      104.0    164.1
Advance Payments                                  53.5      69.3      65.9    159.2       368.9    496.6
Total Current Assets                              873.1    902.4   1,033.0   1,053.1    1,066.6   1,404.5
Gross Fixed Assets._2/                          1,028.8   1,943.4  2,256.3   2,740.8    3,568.5   4,472.2
Less Actumulted Deprecfstfon_2/                   586.6   1,106.1   1,358.2   1,644.5    2,044.7   2,382.0
................................   ....... ..........  ....... ..........   .......
Net Fixed Assets                                  442.2    837.4    898.1   1,096.3    1,523.8   2,090.1
Work in Progress                                  316.7    458.3      714.5     740.5       745.8     796.1
Deferred Charges                                   48.0     128.7     149.2    348.1        500.9     651.3
TOTAL ASSETS                                    1.680.1   2,326.8  2,794.8   3,238.2    3,837.2  4,942.0
Current Liabilities
Accounts Pryabtes                                 75.7      94.2     128.9     135.0       271.4     299.8
other Peyabte                                    130.0     144.5     180.7    226.2        182.6     269.3
Current Portion LT debt                           65.7      73.6      75.1     261.8      253.1      263.2
Total Current Liabilities                         271.4    312.3    384.8    622.9         707.1      832.3
Long term Debt                                    563.8     727.4     965.2   1,058.9    1,366.2   2,108.4
Deferred lncomeClnstall. Charge)                   63.8      89.2     110.6     115.1       65.1      103.9
Other Long Tern LiabiLities                       107.5      65.5      32.0      34.9       83.0       84.2
Total Llabilities                               1,006.5   1,194.3   1,492.6   1,831.8    2,221.3   3,128.8
Equity
Government Equvty                                471.4     565.9   1,190.0   1,153.0    1,310.2   1,418.2
Reserves & Retafned Earnings                     202.1    566.6    112.2    253.4         305.7      395.0
Total Equity                                      673.6   1,132.5   1,302.2   1,406.4    1,615.9   1,813.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES & ECUITY                      1,680.1   2,326.8   2,794.8   3,238.2    3,837.2   4,942.0
_1/ ALthought PERUNTEL was converted to TELKON on September 23, 1991, the financial statements are
for PERIMIEL for the whole fiscal year.
_2V Assets rwvalued in 1987 end accelerated deprecfation method adopted.



- 117 -
ANNEX 17
INDONESIA                      Page 4 of 4
PERUSAHAAN UIM TELEKOIUNIKASI (PERUKTEL)
FOURTH TELECOMIUNICATIONS PROJECT
Historicel Perforamnce Indicators
_~~~---                                   -         -        -         -        -         -        -        uuu.uu
Fiscal Year Ending Deceaber 31                     1986      1987      1968      1989       1990       1991 _1/
Revenuer: (Rp. '000s)
Telephone/Av Main Line (Current)                    836       893       896       958       1,108     1,341
Constant '90 Prices                  1,215     1,158     1,064     1,035       1,108     1,289
Op Revenuv/Main Line (Current)                      974     1,037     1,038     1,124       1,380     1,532
Constant '90 Prices                     1,416     1,346     1,232     1,214      1,380      1,473
Costs: CRp. '000.)
Cash Op Cost/Av Main Line (Current)                 560       526       460       506        631        675
Constant '90 Prices                  813       682       546       546        631        649
Staff Cost/Av Main Line (Current)                   241       239       235       308        410        394
Constant '90 Prfces                    350       310       279       332        410        379
Staff Cost/Cash Op Cost CX)                          43X       45X       51X       611         65X       58X
Operating Ratio                                      81X       95X       80X       84X         87X       78X
Rate of Return on Av NFA                             26X        5X       18X       15X         12X       21X
Transfer to GOI                                   130.6    104.9    129.8    244.2         323.2    274.6
Equity from GOI                                    19.2      81.8    602.1        0.0       157.2       0.0
Net Transfer to 001                               111.4      23.1   (472.3)    244.2        166.0    274.6
Transfer to GOI X of Equity                          19X        92       10X       17X        201        15X
Net Transfer to GOI X of Equity                      17X        22      -36X       17X         102       151
Net I1C/Av 2 Years Investments                       411       502       52X       462         282       412
Debt Service Coverage                               3.4       4.8       4.6       3.8         2.1       2.3
Current Ratio                                       3.2       2.9       2.7       1.7         1.5       1.7
Account Receivable (Das")                            76        64        66        57          45        40
Debt/(Debt + Equity)                                 46X       392       432       43U         46X       54X
1/ Althought PERUNTEL was converted to TELKOM on September 23, 1991, the financial statements are
for PERUNTEL for the iholo fiscaL year.



- 118 -
INDONESIA                  Annex 18
PT TELEKONUNIKASI INDONESIA (TELKON)    Page 1 of 3
... .................................
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Projected Income Statements
(Current Rp. Billions)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                    1992     1993     1994     1995     1996
.......---------- Forecast -------------------------------
Operating Revenue:
Telephone                                    1,955.7  2,302.9  2,852.2 3,383.5  4,000.6
Telex                                          89.5      89.1     99.0    104.6    111.8
Tetegram                                        19.4    20.4      21.4     22.5     23.6
Leased Chanels                                 46.0      50.6    55.7      61.2     67.4
Other Services                                  68.2    80.1      85.9    92.5      99.8
Total Revenue                                 2,178.9  2,543.1  3,114.1  3,664.3  4,303.3
Operating Expenses:
Salaries and Wages                             525.0    650.6    806.2  1,004.8  1,222.8
General & Adminfstration                       262.5   292.8   322.5    351.7   366.8
Repair & Mafntenance                           106.1    144.0    194.2    259.6    343.1
Depreciation & Amortization                    743.2   795.0    921.7  1,073.8  1,213.1
Provisions                                      31.8     26.3     31.8     38.1     44.5
TotaL Expenses                                 1,668.6  1,908.7  2,276.4  2,728.0  3,190.2
Operatfng Income                                 510.3    634.3    837.7    936.3  1,113.1
Interest-LTD                                     196.0   220.7    235.8    280.8    368.0
Non-operating Income                              30.8     16.8      5.4     10.5     27.3
.......  .......... .......  ........... -------...... ... ........ ...
Pre-tax Income                                   345.2    430.5    607.4    666.0   M7.3
Income Tax                                       120.8    150.7    212.6    233.1    270J3
Net Income                                       224.4    279.8    394.8    432.9    502.0
Ratios:
Operating Ratio)                                    77X      75n      73n      74K       74K
Return on Net Fixed Assets (Pre-tax)                24X      26X      28X      28X       29X
Return on Net Fixed Assets (After Tax)              20X      20X      21X      21X       23X



- 119 -
IMDONESIA                    Annex 18
PT TqLEKOsJNIKASI INDONESIA (TELKOM)    Page 2 of 3
....................................
FOURTH TELECOIUNICATIONS PROJECT
ProJected Sources and Us   of Funds
(Current Rp. Bfillons)
Fiscat Year Ending Deceeber 31                         1992      l 9 3     1994      1995      196
.................. Forecat -----------------------
ams. .                                      . _..          ...ua
Sources:
Not Income                                            224.4    279.8    394.8    432.9    502.0
Deprelaetfon & Amrtlzatfon                            743.2    795.0    921.7  1,073.8  1,213.1
Interet                                              196.0    220.7    235.8    280.8    368.0
Deferred Instatlation Charges (Nat)                    18.1      17.0      33.8      29.4      33.2
,.......... .......    ........... .......    .......... ...............
internal Csh Ceneratfon                            1,181.6  1,312.5  1,586.1  1,816.9  2,116.3
001 Development Fuwd                                   46.8      56.1      70.0      98.7    108.2
Sonus to Eaployses                                     29.9      35.9      44.8      63.2      69.3
Pension Plan                                            3.7       4.5       5.6       7.9       8.7
social ObJective                                        3.7       4.5       5.6       7.9       8.7
......    ...... .. ......    ...... ... ...... .............. ...
Totat Transfers                                        84.2    101.0    125.9    177.7    194.8
Debt Service
Interest                                            196.0    220.7    235.8    280.8    368.0
Prineipal                                           207.6    234.6    242.8    259.3    302.0
... ........    .......    .......... .......    .............. ..........
Total Debt Servieo                                   403.5    455.2    478.6    540.1    670.0
.......   .......... .......    .......... ....... .....................
Net Internat Csh Generatfon                          693.9    756.3    981.6  1,099.1  1,251.6
Loans                                                918.6    972.9    943.6    876.2    800.6
.......    .......... .......    .......... ....... .....................
TOTAL SOURCES                                      1,612.5  1,729.2  1,925.2  1,975.3  2,052.2
Appiceatfonrs
Capital Investmnt
Local Componrnt                                    811.5    653.7    676.8    853.6    842.2
Fore gn Coexonent                                  692.0    882.9    810.9    668.6    717.4
.......    .......... .......    .......... ....... .....................
Total                                              1,503.5  1,536.6  1,487.7  1,522.2  1,559.6
Change In Working Capital                             (27.6)    45.5    280.3    266.0    247.2
Deffered Charg N IOC)                                 136.7    147.1    157.2    187.2    245.3
.......    .......... .......    .......... ....... .....................
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                 1,612.5  1,729.2  1,925.2  1,975.3  2,052.2
Ratios:
Net Internal Cah/ Av 2 Year Investm  nts                 431       43X       42X       47X        48X
Debt Service Coveraev                                   2.9       2.9       3.3       3.4        3.2
- - - - - -   -   -   - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - -



- 120 -
INDONESIA                  Anmex 18
PT TELEKONUNIKASI INDONESIA (TELKON)   Page 3 of 3
FOURTH TELECOMU NICATIONS PROJECT
Projected BWaance Sheots
(Current Rp. Siltions)
Fiscal Year Ending Decdber 31                     1992     199      1994      1995     1996
...............  Forct  ---------------------
- - - - - - - - - -.aum u
Current Assets:
Cash and Short Term Investment                  344.8    296.5   346.8   390.1    402.4
Accounts Recoevable                             220.2    268.4   328.8   386.2   453.6
Other Receivablas                                87.2    127.2   202.4   274.8    322.7
inventorles                                     250.4    305.9   367.6   433.6   502.9
Prepaymnt                                       544.7    635.8  M7.5   916.1  1,075.8
Total Current Assets                           1,447.2  1,633.8  2,02(.1  2,400.8  2,757.4
Gros  Fixed Assets                             5.258.0  6,424.5  7,719.5  9,105.4 10,560.8
Less Accamalated Depreciation                  3,027.5  3,719.0  4,530.6  5,487.3  6,572.8
Net Fixed Assets                               2,230.4  2,705.6  3,188.9  3,618.1  3,988.1
Work in Progres                                1,379.7  1,749.8  1,942.5  2,078.8  2,183.1
Net Deferred Charges                             690.3    733.9   781.0   851.0    968.?
.......  .......... .......  .......... ....... ..........................X
TOTAL ASSETS                                   5,747.7  6,823.0  7,936.5  8,948.8 9,897.3
Current Liabilities:
Accownts Payablet                               360.4    44S.1    511.1    577.5    643.2
Other Payablts                                  240.3    296.7   340.7   385.0    428.8
Current Portion LT Debt                         234.6    242.8    259.3    302.0    331.8
.......    .......... .......    .......... ....... .....................
Total Current Liabilities                        835.2    984.6  1,111.1  1,264.5  1,403.7
Long Term Debt                                 2,453.4  3,183.4  3,867.7  4,442.0  4,910.8
Deferred Revenue                                 233.6    250.6   284.4    313.8   347.0
Total Liabilfties                              3,522.2  4,418.6  5,263.2 6,Lt.2  6,661.5
Equity:
Governn nt Pald-in-Capftal                    2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  2,000.0
Resrves & Retained Earfngs                      225.5    404.4    673.3    928.5  1,235.7
.......    .......... -... ......... .......     ...................... ...
Total Equity                                   2,225.5  2,404.4  2,673.3  2,928.5  3,23S.7
.......    .......... .......    .......... .... ....  ..........
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EGUITY                     S,747.7  6,823.0  7,936.5  8,948.8 9,897.3
Ratios:
Current Ratio                                      1.7       1.7      1.8      1.9      2.0
Debt/(Debt + Equfty)                                52X       57      59X      603      60s



- 121 -
Annex 19
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PT TELEKOMUNIKASI (TELKOM)
FOURTH TELECONMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Assumptions Used for Financial Projections
Price Levels and Tariffs
1.   Prices.   The foreign and domestic inflation rates of 3.71 and 6.0%
p.a., respectively, were assumed for the projection period. The exchange
rate of Rp. 1992 to the US dollar was used.
2. Tariffs. Tariffs schedules as shown in Annex 20 were used subject to
the following: Domestic tariffs were assumed to be increased by 12Z
effective January 1, 1994 and maintained in real terms thereafter to enable
TELKOM to self finance a minimum of 40% of its financing needs and
maintain its debt equity ratio within the government limit of 60:40 through
1996.
3.   Future Facilities. Staffing and Ouality of Service - The number of
connection for telephone, staffing ratio and auality of service for the
projection period are shown in Annex 15.
Incoe Statements
4. Operating Revenues. The operating revenues were calculated as
follows:
(i)   Telephone and Telex - Traffic revenues are calculated by
multiplying the total traffic (pulses or minutes) by the price per
pulse or minute for local, long distance and international calls.
Assumption of traffic growth are as follows: domestic automatic
grow at 10% p.a, domestic manual to fall at 101 p.a. and
international traffic to grow at 20X p.a.. For international
revenue projection the revenue sharing with INDOSAT is assumed at
351 (to TELKOM) throughout the projection period. The rental
revenue is calculated on the basis of existing lines and additional
lines installed during each year. The installation revenue charge
for each year is calculated on new lines installed during the year
with 501 shown as revenue for the year and rest as revenue for the
following year.
(ii)   Telegraph - It is forecast to growth at 5 percent per annum.
5. Operating Expenses. The operating expenses are assumed as follows:
(i)   Personnel Cost is calculated as the average number of employees
times average salary, including benefits, per employee. The total
number of employees is expected to increase, but the staffing ratio
is expected to decrease as measures are taken to improve



- 122 -
Annex 19
Page 2 of 2
operational efficiency. Annual salaries are projected to increased
by 10 percent p.a. in real terms, to account for increase in
proportion of skilled staff and better incentives.
(ii)   General and Administrative Cost is a percentage of personnel cost
and is projected to decrease from 50Z to 30X by 1996.
(iii)   ReRair and Maintenance Cost is calculated as the average number of
main lines times repair and maintenance (R&M) per average main
line. R&M per main line is assumed to increase by 5 per annum in
real terms.
(iv)   Bad Debt Provision is a percentage of billed revenues and is
projected at 5 of outstanding accounts receivables.
(v)   Depreciation is on a double declining method and is about 301 per
annum on net fixed assets in operation the previous year.
(vi)  Amortization of deferred charges is about 201 per annum on net
deferred charges the previous year.
Balance Sheet Items
6.   Gross Fixed Assets reflect the investment program in Annex 9 and
transfers from work-in-progress.
7. Accounts Receivable is measured as the number days of total operating
revenue. It is assumed to remain at 40 days of billing during the
projection period.
8. Inventoriel are estimated as a percentage on gross fixed assets in
service and are projected to remain at 5X.
9.   Othier Bceivables  are assumed to remain at 51 of operating revenue.
10. Prepayzent are assumed to remain at 251 of cash operating cost and
work in progress.
11. Long-tern debt and current Rortion are based on the project financing
plan and projected debt service.
12. Accounts Payable is a percentage of cash operating cost and work in
progress. It is expected to decrease to 151 of cash operating cost and
work in progress by 1993 and remain at that level.
13. Approrriation of Net Profit During the projection period, bonous to
employees, social objectives and pension plan contributions are assumed to
continue as for PERUNTEL. Dividend payment is assumed to remain at 1992
level of 251.



- 123 -
Annex 20
Page 1 of 6
INDONESIA
PT TELEKOMUNIKASI (TELKOM)
FOURTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
S-mmary of TELKON's Tariff
A. Telephone Installation Charges
1. Category I of TeleRhone Exchange
(a) Main connection                                         1,000,000
(b) Branch connection                                          63,000
2. Category II of TeleRhone Exchange
(a) Main connection                                           750,000
(b) Branch connection                                          32,000
3. Category III of TeleRhone Exchange
(a) Main connection                                           500,000
(b) Branch connection                                          19,000
4. Category IV of Telephone Exchange
(a) Main connection                                           350,000
(b) Branch connection                                          13,000
5.  Category V of TeleRhone Exchange
(a) Main connection                                           300,000
(b) Branch connection                                          10,000
6. Category VI of Teleghone Exchange
(a) Main connection                                           250,000
(b) Branch connection                                           7,000
7. Category VII of TeleRhone Exchange
(a) Main connection                                           225,000
(b) Branch connection                                           3,750
8. Category VIII of TeleRhone Exchange                             200,00
9.  Catemory XI of TeleRhone Exchange                             175,000
10.  Category X of Telephone Exchange                               150,00



- 124 -
Annex 20
Page 2 of 6
B. Monthly Rent of TeleRhone Connection
1.  Automatic Telephone Exchange
(a) Category I, II, III and IV
(i)  Main connection                                      10,000
(ii)  Branch connection                                     5,000
(b) Category V, VI, VII and VIII
(i)  Main connection                                       7,500
(ii)  Branch connection                                     3,500
(c) Category IX and X
(i)  Main connection                                       5,000
(ii)  Branch connection                                     2,500
2.  Automatic Telenhone Exchange UR to 500 Numbers
(a) Main connection                                             1,000
(b) Branch connection                                             500
3. Automatic TeleRhone Exchange Over 500 Numbers
(a) Main connection                                             2,000
(b) Branch connection                                           1,000
C. TeleRhone Conversation Rate
1. Automatic Teleghone
(a) Local pulse of 3 minutes                                      100
(b) Local call of 3 minutes from PCO                               50
(c) Internal region per pulse                                     100
(d) Interregion per pulse with duration                           100
up to 100 km                                               6 seconds
100-200 km                                                 5 seconds
200-300 km                                                 4 seconds
300-1,000 km                                               3 seconds
over 1,000 km                                              2 seconds
(e) Card telephone per pulse                                       75
2. Nonautomatic Telephone
(a) Local                              Included in monthly subscription
(b) Local from PCO per call                                        50
(c) Internal region per minute                                     35
(d) Long-distance (normal service):
up to 100 km                                                  750
100-200 km                                                  1,000
200-300 km                                                  1,200
300.1,000 km                                                1,500
over 1,000 km                                               2.000
(e) Long-distance urgent service
(twice the rates shown in (d) above)



- 125 -
Annex 20
Page 3 of 6
D. Telegraph Rate
1.  Presentation rate per telegram                                     350
2.  Domestic rate per word, normal service (minimum 10 words)           25
E. Telex Rate
1.  Installation fee                                       Same as telephone
main exchange
2.  Monthly subscription                                            15,000
3.  Pulse rate with duration:                                          100
up to 50 km                                                    12 seconds
50-300 km                                                       8 seconds
300-750 km                                                      6 seconds
over 750 km                                                     3 seconds
F. Private Leased Circuits
1.  Installation fee Rer Rair
(inside service border area)
Category I                                                     250,000
Category II                                                    175,000
Category III                                                   100,000
Cagetory IV                                                     87,000
Category V                                                      62,000
Category VI                                                     45,000
Category VII                                                    37,500
2. Monthly Charges
(a) Telephone circuit (analog)
(i)  Local (per pair within one local area inside        600,000
service border area)



- 126 -
Annex 20
Page 4 of 6
(ii) Long distance and trunk
Zone  Distance          Government            Business and
(km)                                     private
(Rp)                 (Rp)
I     up to 100            900,000              5,062,500
II    100-200            1,080,000              6,750,000
III   200-300            1,350,000              8,100,000
IV    300-1,000           1,800,00              10,000,000
v     over 1,000          2,700,000            13,500,000
(b) Telegraph and Data Circuits
Leased telegraph circuits are available up to a maximum
transmission rate of 50, 100 and 200 baud.
Leased data circuits are available for transmission rate
from 300 bps.
(i) Within one local area:
Printer, per pair per connection                    75,000
Data communication, per pair                       100,000



- 127 -
Annex 20
Page 5 of 6
(ii)  Long distance and trunk leased circuits
Trans-
mission     Zone  Distance    Government   Business and
rate                                             private
50 baud      I    up to 100      180,000         420,000
(full       II    100-200        216,000         504,000
speed)      III   200-300        270,000         630,000
IV    300-1,000      360,000         840,000
V    over 1,000    540,000        1,260,000
75 baud      I                   198,000         462,000
II                   237,000         554,000
III                  297,000         693,000
IV                   396,000         924,000
V                   594,000       1,386,000
100 baud    I                    216,000         504,000
II                   259,000         604,000
III                  324,000         756,000
IV                   432,000      1,008,000
v                   648,000       1,512,000
200 baud    I                    288,000         672,000
II                   345,000         806,000
III                  432,000       1,008,000
IV                   576,000      1,344,000
V                   864,000       2,016,000
300 bps      I                   900,000       2,100,000
II                1,080,000       2,520,000
III                1,350,000       3,150,000
IV                 1,800,000      4,200,000
V                 2,700,000       6,300,000



- 128 -
Annex 20
Page 6 of 6
NOTES
1. Location Categories
Category I       Jakarta area
Category II      Medan, Surabaya
Category III    Bandung, Denpasar, Palembang, etc.
Category IV      Yogyakarta, Bogor, Ambon, etc.
Cagetory V       Madiun, Sabang, Cianjur, etc.
Category VI      Kendal, Soingaraja, etc.
Category VII    Ciamis, Banjar, etc.
2.  Telegraph circuits are for the following operating modes:
Half-duplex
Full-duplex (4-wire connection)



- 129 -
Annex 21
Page 1 of 4
INDONEUIA
PT TELEKOMUNIKASI INDONESIA (TELKOM)
FOURTH TELECOMM(UNT IIONS PROJECT
Return on Investments
AssutioU
The assumptions made in deriving the benefit and costs streams used to
calculate the economic rate of return on investments are outlined below and in
Tables 21.1 and 21.2.
Capital Cost
TELKOM's investment program over the period 1992-1996 has been
categorized as investments under (i) ongoing works, (ii) investments included in
the Fourth Telecommunications Project and (iii) future works. Investments for
the first two categories are closely related. In contrast, investments in the
third category, future works, are independent of the first two categories and,
since funding is still uncertain are considered as future works. In assessing
return on investments, the capital costs considered therefore include investments
under ongoing works and the Fourth Telecommunications Project taken together over
the period 1992-1996.
ORerating Costs
Incremental operating costs streams were specified as the expected
operating costs with and without the proposed investments.   The expected
personnel, repair and maintenance, other operating costs and corporate income tax
resulting from the proposed investments have been reflected in the financial
projections (Annex 18) based on assumptions in Annex 19.
Without the proposed investments it was assumed that the network would
continue to deteriorate, thereby leading to increased maintenance costs per line
in service. More specifically, maintenance cost per line would increase lOX per
annum in real terms. Staff in 1993 is assumed to increase proportionally to
increase in number of main lines added without the program and continue to remain
at that level thereafter. Average staff cost per staff is expected to increase
as in the case with the proposed investments.   Other operating costs would
decrease proportionally with respect to total personnel cost.
Revenues
Incremental revenues were calculated as the difference in revenues with and
without the proposed investments. Incremental revenues are the result of the
additional revenues from new telephone subscribers, including installation,
rental and usage fees and the increased revenues from existing subscribers
resulting from higher traffic due to modernization of telecommunications
facilities.   The expected changes in revenues resulting from the proposed
investments have been reflected in the financial projections based on assumptions
in Annex 19.
Without the proposed investments, new subscribers would continue to be
connected until 1993 and from 1993, the traffic growth for existing subscribers
would increase at a smaller rate and finally stop growing due to network



- 130 -
Annex 21
Page 2 of 4
congestion and line faults. Both international and domestic traffic are assumed
to grow at 10 and 51 per annum, respectively, until 1994, jith no growth from
1995 onwards.
Tariffs
It was assumed that domestic tariffs would be increased by an average
of 12X on January 1, 1994 and maintained in real terms in 1995 and 1996.
Time HorilMo
The time horizon for the project cost and benefit streams extends from
1992 to 2007.   At the end of this period it is estimated that on average all
equipment provided under the project would have completed its useful life. From
1996 onward all costs and benefits related to the 1992-1996 investments, are
expected to remain constant in real terms.
Rate of Return
Input cost and benefit data used in calculating the incremental cost
and benefit streams for estimating the rate financial rate of return (FRR) are
provided in Tables 21.1. The incremental costs and benefits for estimating the
economic rate of return are derived by adjusting capital cost for 101 value added
tax, operating cost for corporate income tax and benefit stream for 101 value-
added tax levied on telephone bills to telephone subscribers.   The cost and
benefit streams for estimating the real economic rate of return (ERR) are shown
in Table 21.2. The cost and benefit streams have not been shadow priced since
the procurement of most items are on competitive basis, skilled labor is mainly
used and Indonesia has an open foreign exchange market. The net benefit stream
was deflated to reflect constant 1991 prices.
Based on these assumptions, the real financial rate of return to TELKOM
is estimated at 18X. The real economic rate of return is estimated at 23X. This
is a conservative estimate of the economic rate of return as it does not reflect
the consumer surplus which is high given the supply constraint. A sensitivity
analysis carried out to project the effect on the econiomic rate of return of
possible changes in key variables is summarized below:
ERR
(a) a delay of 12 months in connection of new subscribers          15
resulting in a delay in revenue of 12 months;
(b) 101 increase in capital and operating costs;                   20
(c) a delay of 12 months in connection of new subscribers          13
101 increase in capital and operating cost.
Even under the most improbable scenario, (c), and without taking into account
consumer  surplus  the real  ERR would be  13X.   The  contracts  for major
telecommunications equipment to be financed by co-financiers have already been
finalized and cost estimates for major Bank financed items are based on recent
contracts for similar items under the ongoing Third telecomunications Project.
To ensure timely implementation of the project, single responsibility
implementation approach will be used and all major contracts will be signed by
the time of loan effectiveness.



- 131 -
TABLE 21.1 Financial Rate of Return
(Rupfih lillion)
Fisct Year Ending Decebr 31                        1992     1993    1994      1995     1996 1997-2007
Deflator                                           1.06     1.12     1.19     1.26     1.34
Capitat Expwndfture                             1,03.5  1,536.6  1,160.0   362.8    61.6
Operating Cost with Progrm (includs Taxes)    1,046.2  1,264.4  1,567.2  1,6t7.3  2,247.4
Operatins Cost without Progri_ (includes Taxes) 1,046.2  1,247.3  1,497.3  1,686.4  1,845.6
Incremental Operating Cost                          0.0    17.1    69.9   200.9   351.9
Revenua  with Progrem                           2,178.9  2,543.1  3,114.1  3,664.3  4,303.3
Revenue without Prqgre_                         2,176.9  2,296.9 2,517.0 2,614.9  2,746.6
Incremental Revenu                                  0.0  2V6.2   597.1  1,049.4  1,556.4
Net Incremental enotfit                        C1,503.5)(1,307.6)  (641.7   465.7  1,123.0  1,204.6
Net Incroemntel lenetft (1991 Term)            C1,416.4)C1,165.7  (536.6)  384.7   639.2   900.1
Financalt Rate of Retumn         a                   1
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                             - -   - -



- 132 -
TABLE 21.2 Economic Rate of Ratrun
(Rupish Billion)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31                       1992      1993     1994     1995      1996 1997-2007
Deflator                                              1.06     1.12     1.19      1.26     1.34
Capital Expenditure (Net Of VAT)                  1,366.8  1,396.9  1,062.7    329.9       74.1
Operating Cost with Program                         925.3  1,113.8  1,354.6  1,654.2  1,977.1
Operating Cost without Program                      925.3  1,108.9  1,278.0  1,434.7  1,608.6
Incremental Operating Cost                            0.0      4.8      76.6    219.5    368.5
Rev  nu  with progrm                              2,178.9  2,543.1  3,114.1  3,664.3  4,303.3
Revnue without Progrm                             2,178.9  2,296.9  2,517.0  2,614.9  2,746.8
Incroeental Revenu                                    0.0    246.2    597.1  1,049.4  1,556.4
Plus: Value Added Tax (10%)                           0.0      24.6     59.7    104.9    155.6
Net Incremental Benefit                          (1,366.8)(1,130.9)  (482.5)   604.9  1,269.5  1,343.6
Net Incremntal BenefIt (1991 Term)               (1,289.4)(1,006.5)  (405.1)   479.2    948.6  1,004.0
Economic Rate of Return m                              23%
3!3                                                                      u33_33_33_  _33333_3_s 



- 133 -
ANNEX 22
INDONESIA
FOURTH TELECOMMUN'CATIONS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.    TELKOM Corporate Plan  1992-1996
2.    Report on WITEL VIII Management and Operation
3.    Final Report on Sumatra Telecommunications Project
4.   Pelita V Development Program  February 1991
5.    Pelita V Development Program  May 1991
6.    Pelita V Development Program  September 1991
7.    Network Performance in Jakarta MultiExchange Area
8.    Study Report on Java Second Fiber Optic System
9.    Supporting Documents for Telecom IV Project
10.   Strategic Plan for Organization Through 2000
11.   Fourth Telecommunications Project Outside Plant Component Planning
12.   TELKOM Manpower Master Plan  1992-1996
13.   Contract with Booz Allen Hamilton for DGPT Institutional
Strengthening



MAP SECTION



IORD 23237
INDONESIA
t TH D                                              PHILIPPINE           PACKAGING OF OSP PROJECT
SOUTH CHINA                                                        PACKAGE I
< , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PACKAGE II
~~ s >  }f-/ \       ~~~SEA                'I-L,    ,,=                            a P Ke III
ADE PACKAGE
ha \ 1 A _ BRUN           g                        L _~ I I COVERED UNDER ON-GOING PROJECT AREA
R3M *NCo*lXpa   PACIFIC
MALAYSIA                     nJjNATrIMALCAYATAL                   OCEAN
\ -J C iLGwORE                                                     NOM"TIONAL \ 5/ _0 r < <- R ONBOUNDAESv
3# -   V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ S. 
INDLAN~~~~~~~~~~ ACA         iI M A N rAN 
_IUi,flS i  ;. _ \                      A      ,       IA   N
ININOCEANv-                                                                                 kb$.
VI ~~~octz~V I Ir
a,                                    Zr)               ir{>'U    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUSTALIA 
MARCH 1 92



ITRO 2340
PHIOIPPINE5 S   ii                      I 5W
Rodo Ach
4,,-" r:.~  ,Qa                         INDONESIA
BRUNEI.>                                                                                    EXISTING AND PLANNED
TERRESTRIAL LONG DISTANCE
NETWORK AND EARTH STATIONS
WIThLI. /                                  0   *                                                                                                    /I
*     *                           .  .                                     MALAYSIA                              f
a.      r. -, e~in *         -S-. SINGAPORE                                               p                                                 HALAHE-A
.     I kokobor                     .:t                '          
Ut                                                4gdin *    I'^S-rsot/< 1  WITEL IX  S_
v E L   111    , /   j  Palonkorayag  * r *'<6alran /             Y'  ITEL x       <      v       9    oFa    is      S  . .        ITEL XllITEL X9Jr
/    / >Pobrrbun~PIl           liUG.*                  i-; ,- 2Xrto    SULAWESI                                                                                           I iiS           R I A N  J A Y A     
3ELTvN                                                   0                                 au .lu(r  Scs   SL3rxnjarmgsin    /  ronhrer;3  o.,  egKndcri |t   WITELA-onin rindb
4L~                 --,,                          *                                                                        p  
a>  *                                              WI                                 -P.. nI  -    r -o --TEL.                                         ' d,. WT-
EXISIING                        UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                               SLII         TE      I  g
._  MICROWAVE ROUaES oDIGITA  ---- MICROWAVE ROnTES tDi@TAL)                                                              K.p-n
ICARACITYEIIeNGO"DeC                                            FUTURE
-MIICROWAVE ROUTES (ANALOG)   -    -     S3AAINE OPTICAL FIBER CABLE                                                                                                                                   =7 I Ao 
MCROWAVEWES ROUTESNDIGIYA
--TROPOSCAFTER ROUTES         - PK$SINDOSAT                                                                                                                                                        i^_  rF-h
C10SS SUMATERA   PROFOSED                       ~~~~~~~~SUBMARINE OPTICAL FIBER CABLE                                                                                              ;     v-
_ OPTICAL F13ER ROUTES       ---MICROWVAVE ROUTE ID<ilTALI     -'   OTCLFBRAI                                                                                                                          ,      _
SATELLITEEARTHSTATIONS       --REMOT AREA-'                                  WlTEL3WUNDARI                                                                           AUSTRALIA    
-1Kt   *  ~~PROVINCE HEAtDQuAMRTs               O      3      2qc   300     41      9MLES                                                                                                                    ln r* 
_.- INTERNATIONAL fiOUNDARIES       C        2D       i60 gWT  aIV         IUME
i   100   1    !-                     il5                      1s0                      1t5'                    l?o               . ___  Is5 .                      MAiCHI95:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRC 19



