                      Document of
                   The World Bank




                                            Report No: 36603

         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (TF-52681 SCL-47850)

                         ON A

                         LOAN

           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$450 MILLION

                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                      BULGARIA

                         FOR A
SERIES OF THREE PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS




                      June 26, 2006

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2006)

                          Currency Unit = Bulgarian Leva (BGN)
                                  1 BGL = US$ 0.631672
                             US$ 1.441 = SDR 1

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALMPs    Active Labor Market Policies
ASAL     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BEEPS    Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey
BGN      Bulgarian Leva
BTC      Bulgarian Telecommunication Company
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBA      Currency Board Arrangement
CCR      CAS Completion Report
CPC      Commission for Protection of Competition
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
COM      Council of Ministers
CRC      Communications Regulation Commission
DPL      Development Policy Loan
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC       European Commision
ECA      Europe & Central Asia Region
EPAL     Environmental ProtectionAdjustment Loan
EU       European Union
FDI      Foreign Direct Investments
FESAL    Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GMI      Guaranteed Minimum Income
GNI      Gross National Income
GOB      Government of Bulgaria
GVA      Gross Value Added
HD       Human Development Network
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IFIs     International Financial Institutions
IFRS     International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ISA      International Standards on Auditing
NHIF     National Health Insurance Fund
NSSI     National Social Security Institute

PAL      Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PFSD     Private and Financial Sector Development Network
PPP      Purchasing Power Parity
PREM     Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Network
PSC      Public Service Contract
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OED      Operations Evaluation Department
SEE      South and Eastern Europe
SERC     State Energy Regulatory Commission
SOEs     State Owned Enterprises
TTL      Task Team Leader
USAID    United States Assistance for International Development
WB       World Bank



                        Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                     Country Director       Anand Seth
                       Sector Director      Charles C. Griffin
                   Task Team Leader:        Lire Ersado

                                          BULGARIA
                            Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            25
6. Sustainability                                                                26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 27
8. Lessons Learned                                                               29
9. Partner Comments                                                              30
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             44
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             55
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             56
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             57
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             59
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                60
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            61
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              63
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            64

Project ID: P078675                                                   Project Name: Programmatic Adjustment Loan 3 (PAL
                                                                      3)
Team Leader: Lire Ersado                                              TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                       Report Date: June 28, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Programmatic Adjustment Loan 3 (PAL 3)                   L/C/TF Number: TF-52681; SCL-47850
   Country/Department: BULGARIA                                                           Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (45%); General industry and trade sector (22%); General
                            energy sector (11%); General education sector (11%); Health (11%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Social risk mitigation (P); Education for all
                            (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/14/2004                                       Effective: 11/01/2005              11/01/2005
     Appraisal: 03/21/2005                                          MTR:
      Approval: 06/02/2005                                        Closing: 03/31/2006               03/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:      Council for State Administration Modernization, Inter-Ministerial Working
                                           Group for the Optimization of Regulatory Regimes, Poverty Monitoring Unit,
                                           Ministry of Labor and Social Policy Labor Standards Measurement Unit, National
                                           Statistical Institute Council for Economic Growth and Tax Council

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Anand Seth
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             Charles C. Griffin
Team Leader at ICR:             Reema Nayar                                    Reema Nayar
ICR Primary Author:             Lire Ersado


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Introduction

Until 1997, Bulgaria's transition to a market economy was slow. The 1989-97 period was marked by
extensive foreign borrowing, slow structural reform, and a turbulent macroeconomic environment. This
culminated in a severe economic and financial crisis in 1996-97, with a cumulative GDP decline of 14%
and a sharp increase in poverty.

By 1999, when Bulgaria was invited to start negotiations toward EU membership, the macroeconomic
situation had stabilized--in part due to establishment of an IMF-endorsed Currency Board Arrangement
(CBA) in 1997, wide-ranging structural reforms and tight fiscal policies adopted under the CBA. While
growth had been strong and structural reform had quickened, progress was not sufficient to reduce
persistently high unemployment, sustain economic growth momentum and attract large foreign direct
investment. Also, despite the progress, poverty in 2002 remained higher than in 1995 and was especially
high among some segments of the population.

The PAL program was initiated to accelerate the pace of structural reform--especially in the enterprise,
financial and utility sectors--and establish a more market-friendly business climate, including a stable legal
and regulatory environment and credible judiciary. The enterprise and financial sector segments of the PAL
were, in essence, the continuation of policy-based lending in these sectors that had been undertaken under
the two Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans (FY98 and FY00 respectively). The PAL
further focused on improving the allocation of public expenditures and improving public sector governance,
while shoring up public policies that were needed to reach vulnerable groups that had not benefited from
recent growth. To develop the human capital necessary for a more competitive EU environment, the PAL
also supported reforms in the education and health sectors.

The program supported the medium term reform program of the Government of Bulgaria (GOB) that
emphasized private initiative as the main engine of economic growth, and empowerment of the population
to participate in future growth. The PAL program consisted of three successive operations, as articulated in
the 2002 CAS (see Table 1 for timing and size of the operations):
   l PAL1 focused primarily on structural, regulatory and institutional reforms in the real and financial
         sectors to complete Bulgaria's transition to a fully functioning market economy;
   l PAL2 initiated broad reforms in the area of public sector governance, while continuing reforms
         initiated under PAL1; and
   l PAL3 continued the unfinished reform agenda of PAL1 and PAL2, while it had a particular focus
         on social sector reform agenda.

This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the final operation (PAL3) as well as an
evaluation of the overall PAL program. A simplified ICR for PAL1 was completed on June 30, 2004, and
received an outcome rating of satisfactory from OED as well as the ICR authors. The ICR for PAL2 was
completed on November 4, 2005 and received an outcome rating of satisfactory from the ICR authors, but
OED rated it moderately satisfactory. It assesses the overall program objectives against Bulgaria's current
development priorities. With regard to the analysis of design, the ICR first reviews the overall PAL
program based on the cumulative experience through the third operation, and then addresses the specific
design features of PAL3. The Outcome section first reviews the overall outcomes in the areas supported by
the five PAL pillars, and then evaluates the outcomes attributable to PAL3. The principal performance



                                                      - 2 -

ratings shown above and discussed in later sections only cover PAL3. The lessons learned reflect the
experience of the overall PAL program in general and of PAL3 in particular. The Performance Benchmarks
Matrix describing a set of desired outcomes and their status in each of the agreed reform areas for the
entire PAL program is shown in Annex 1.

                                 Table 1. Timing and size of PAL operations
                         PAL1                        PAL2                         PAL3
              Concept: Apr 2002
              Approval: Feb 20, 2003      Concept: April 29, 2003
              Closing: Dec 31, 2003       Approval: Jun 10, 2004       Concept: Jul 14, 2004
              ICR: Jun 30, 2004           Closing: March 31, 2005      Approval: Jun 2, 2005

                                          ICR: Sep 30, 2005            Closing: March 31, 2006
                                                                       ICR: June 30, 2006
              Size (mil. $): 150          Size (mil. $): 150           Size (mil. $): 150




3.1 Original Objectives
The Bulgaria Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) Program had as its objectives: (a) the achievement of
4.5 ­ 5.0% average annual growth in GDP during 2002-2005; (b) the reduction of poverty by half between
2001 and 2005; (c) the reduction of unemployment from 18.1% in 2001 to 12-14% in 2005; and (d)
substantial progress toward accession to the European Union (EU).            The strategy to achieve these
objectives focused on two main themes: (a) private sector investment and productivity as the engine of
growth; and (b) empowerment of the population to ensure social inclusion and wide participation in the
anticipated growth.

To achieve these objectives, the program was built around five pillars of structural and institutional
reforms that were envisioned in the GOB's medium-term program:
    (1) Sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise and infrastructure sectors;
    (2) Establishing a market-friendly business environment;
    (3) Deepening the financial system;
    (4) Improving public sector governance; and
    (5) Investing in human capital and strengthening social programs.

Each of the three PAL operations focused on specific thematic areas as described in the introduction and as
envisioned in the CAS, while at the same supporting reforms which began during the previous PALs, and
preparing reforms to be implemented in the succeeding PALs.            Each PAL operation was presented
separately to the Board, within a common framework developed and agreed to in the first PAL operation
(PAL1). As articulated in the CAS, PAL1 focused on structural, regulatory, and institutional reforms in the
real and financial sectors that would move Bulgaria towards a functioning market economy (Pillars 1-3).
PAL2, in addition to sustaining the reforms under PAL1, advanced reforms in public sector governance,
including public administration modernization, judicial reform, and anti-corruption initiatives (Pillar 4).
Finally, the main focus area for PAL3 was the long term social sector agenda, in addition to ensuring the
sustained implementation of the reform program supported by previous PALs (Pillar 5).

Assessment of Objectives
The PAL program was fundamentally that of the GOB. PAL complemented the government's medium
term economic program, and its activities were predominantly driven by the GOB's priorities and timetable.



                                                     - 3 -

The program came at an opportune time, with a new leadership in power with a desire to deliver on
campaign promises. This, in tandem with Bulgaria's aspiration to join the EU, made the "national
mind-set" conducive to reform.         The PAL program effectively took advantage of the `window of
opportunity' that existed, while at the same time maintaining a close link with the Bank's country and
sectoral assistance strategy and corporate goals. In this regard, PAL represented the centerpiece of
Bulgaria's 2002-2005 CAS and was consistent with the country's current development priorities as
articulated in its Letter of Development Policy.

PAL objectives were relevant and addressed significant development barriers, and the breadth of the
program was necessary for Bulgaria to complete its transition to a fully functioning market economy.
The objectives were well crafted and in accordance with the medium term program of the country, and were
appropriate given the Bulgarian context at the time. The operation was a comprehensive effort to support
the major pillars of the GOB's medium-term program stated above, focusing on design and implementation
of policies and sector reform programs, and the strengthening of markets and institutions. The experiences
from other transition countries in the region also suggested the need to move along multiple fronts
simultaneously so as to exploit the complementarities and synergies among the reform elements. Although
the project's objectives were quite broad, the components were clearly linked to the progress sought under
the GOB's program. Bulgarian authorities demanded a comprehensive program of structural and
institutional reforms to support the wide range of remaining policy and institutional reforms required to
complete the transition to a fully competitive market economy. Key aspects of the reform (including
judiciary, anti-corruption, business environment, and public sector competitiveness) were core requirements
for EU accession. The program's objectives still remain relevant today as the country prepares for EU
membership in 2007. However, the poverty reduction objective was an ambitious one and the program did
not ensure appropriate monitoring and evaluation mechanism to assess if this major goal would be
achieved.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The program objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
PAL supported economy-wide structural reforms in five strategic pillars:

    1. Sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise and infrastructure sectors. Pillar 1 aimed to
    rationalize the role of the state by privatizing activities that can be better performed by the private
    sector. It involved continuing privatization in the enterprise sector, and restructuring and privatization
    of the energy, railway, telecommunications, and water sectors. In conjunction with the business
    environment (Pillar 2) and public administration (Pillar 4) reforms, the privatization reforms were
    anticipated to increase the share of the private sector in growth and employment generation.

    2. Establishing a market-friendly business environment. This pillar focused on improving the
    business environment through reducing entry and regulatory costs; improving government service to
    business; maintaining stable market rules and regulations; achieving greater labor market flexibility;
    improving efficiency of the insolvency regime; and ensuring an overall competitive environment.

    3. Deepening the financial system. Activities in this pillar included measures to increase financial
    intermediation and to stimulate the development of the financial markets. To achieve this, PAL aimed
    at completing privatization of financial institutions (begun under earlier Bank operations) and
    improving prudential and regulatory supervision of financial institutions.




                                                      - 4 -

    4. Improving public sector governance. The actions in this pillar included modernizing state
    administration, reforming the judicial system, and fighting corruption, particularly in the areas most
    affected such as customs, health services, tax administration, higher education, and the courts. Pillar 4
    focused on what the EU identified as critical conditions for Bulgaria's accession to the Union, e.g.,
    judicial reform including greater independence of the judiciary.

    5. Investing in human capital and strengthening social programs. This pillar was about the
    empowerment of the population to participate in growth. To achieve this, PAL program aimed to
    improve the quality of health and education services, equip the population with the skills required in a
    competitive market economy, enable the disadvantaged to invest in education, and improve the
    governance and efficiency of health and education services. The program also aimed to empower the
    disabled and to improve administration and targeting of disability benefits, to reform the pension
    system, to improve coverage and efficiency of social assistance programs.

3.4 Revised Components:
The program components remained unchanged.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry of the Overall Program
Quality at entry of the overall PAL program was satisfactory. The program design was underpinned by
considerable analytic work (Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reform (2003); World
Bank-IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) of 2002; The Dual Challenges of Transition and
EU Accession (2001); Poverty Assessments of 1999 and 2002; European Commission's Regular Report on
Bulgaria's Progress towards Accession (annual); Anticorruption in Transition (2000, 2004); Country
Financial Accountability Assessment of 2003), and built upon experience and lessons of the then completed
and on-going structural reforms in the country financed by Bank (e.g., Social Protection Adjustment Loan,
two Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans (FESALs) FY98 and FY00, two Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (ASAL) FY01, and an Environmental Protection Structural Adjustment Loan (EPSAL)
FY00). The two FESALs were particularly relevant in setting the stage for the first three pillars which were
focus areas for PAL1. The Bank team utilized broad and relevant international experience in the design
and implementation of the program, particularly in the areas of business regulation, privatization, and
social sector reforms. Identification and appraisal of PAL involved intense dialogue with the government
policy-makers and the IMF. The program complemented and reinforced the IMF program to keep Bulgaria
on its macroeconomic stabilization path. It also successfully integrated the results of assistance programs
of other donor organizations such as the USAID.

The GOB showed the political will, necessary commitment and competency, and the coordination
capacity through its Council of Ministers (COM) to implement a complex program such as the PAL.
Coordination role played by the Council for Economic Policy (formerly Council for Structural Policy)
under the COM, chaired by Deputy Prime Ministers, was critical by keeping visibility of PAL reforms
high, elevating the decision level, bringing "group pressure" on lagging ministries to advance reform
agenda. As a result, despite the complexity of the PAL instrument, the country has successfully managed
it. The PAL dialogue on issues showed resilience even (1) in the environment of coalition government, (2)
with a cabinet change and reshuffling in the middle of PAL2 and again during PAL3, and (3) with a change
in the government just after the inception of the program. A new parliament ratified PAL3 in October after
the 2005 elections. The fact that the key policy anchors continued to be firmly in place beyond the
elections, including Bulgaria's 2007 accession to the European Union, the CBA, as well as the ongoing
IMF program, were instrumental in making the policy discipline built into the PAL program transcend



                                                    - 5 -

national political cycles.

The program components and sequencing of focus areas were well designed and the five pillars
strongly complemented each other in supporting the achievement of the program objectives. PAL1
focused on the government's most immediate priorities, i.e. privatization and improving the climate for
private investments, while paving the way for reforming public sector governance under PAL2. The mix of
conditions under each of the first two operations fittingly emphasized the development of an improved
policy and regulatory environment, thus providing a conducive framework for private-led economic growth
and productivity. The final operation (PAL3) took up the role of empowering a broader range of the
population to participate in the growth by supporting reforms for enhanced investment in human capital
and strengthening social protection. In addition, the PAL program had an environmental component to
mitigate the potential environmental risks of reforms such as the privatization of large SOEs.

The programmatic approach provided much-needed flexibility in the design of multi-sectoral loan.
The PAL program proved flexible in that unfinished conditions of PAL1 were picked up in PAL2 and
PAL3 and the built-in triggers assured accountability, thus accommodating uncertainties inherent in
sequencing and pace of a multi-sectoral reform program such as this. Moreover, the flexibility of PAL
instrument worked well in permitting pursuit of reforms that were feasible, modifying those that were
impractical in some manner, and downsizing or dropping those that were not feasible.

Arrangement for task management within the Bank was unusual in that three different sectoral units
took turns in the Task Team Leadership (TTL) role. PAL1, with its focus on privatization, business
environment and financial reform, was managed by Private and Financial Sector Development (PFSD)
sector unit. Public sector governance and administration reform, which was a focus area for PAL2, had a
TTL from the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) sector unit. Finally, the Human
Development (HD) sector unit had the TTL role for PAL3, which had human development and social
agenda as its main area of focus. The arrangement was intended to motivate sectoral units, and maximize
their participation and "ownership" of respective sectoral reforms. The needed continuity was maintained
by keeping the designer of the overall PAL program, who was also the TTL of PAL1, as an integrator
throughout the program. It should be noted that the PAL Program TTL arrangement was an effort to
overcome institutional limitations within the Bank, i.e., the potential lack of sufficient focus by sectors that
were not directly managing the program and task budget. This arrangement was overall successful (see
Bank Performance section to see a more detailed assessment of how well this arrangement worked in
practice).

There were some less desirable aspects of the design of the PAL program, however. PAL was very
comprehensive in its coverage, conditionality, level of detail and specificity (see Table 2 below and detailed
conditions for each pillar are in Annex 1). For example, with triggers and benchmarks combined, there
were 68, 93 and 101 conditions in PAL1, PAL2 and PAL3, respectively. The number of conditions
increased as the program progressed and as some of the difficult reforms were pushed back to succeeding
operations. There were several additional conditions included in PAL2 and PAL3, particularly in pillars 4
and 5, which were not identified during the original PAL design, and as a result, the large matrix of
performance benchmarks in the PAL3 project document appears overwhelming (see Annex 1). This gave
the impression of an over-designed loan and one that was not aligned with the Bank's emerging model of
support to middle income countries such as Bulgaria. However, the ICR team learned that the GOB
demanded a detailed roadmap and specific implementation strategies, and the Bank went ahead with
detailed program to meet the client's demand.




                                                    - 6 -

 Table 2: Number of PAL program triggers and benchmarks increased through the years.
                               Year 1          Year 2         Year 3           Total
           PAL1 PD                68              72            53              193
            Triggers              10              11            10              31
          Benchmarks              58              61            43              162
           PAL2 PD                69              93            113             275
            Triggers              10              12             9              31
          Benchmarks              59              81            104             244
           PAL3 PD                69              95            101             265
            Triggers              10              12             9              31
          Benchmarks              59              83            92              234

 Source: PAL1, PAL2 and PAL3 Program Documents



There were two design shortcomings in the poverty reduction objective that stipulated reducing
poverty by half in 2005 from its level in 2001. The poverty reduction objective, which stipulated halving
poverty in 2005 from its level in 2001, was ambitious. But a simulation of the poverty rate using the
concept of the growth elasticity of poverty shows that the poverty reduction objective may have not been
unreachable (see Section 4.1). Another drawback with respect to the poverty reduction objective was that
the program, despit did not ensure an appropriate monitoring and evaluation mechanism to assess the
degree to which this major goal would be achieved. Despite the fact that the original PAL design put a
condition that demanded appropariate data be collected at the conclusion of the program, the ICR found no
efforts that were made to ensure that necessary and comparable data would be made available. An LSMS
survey was carried out in 2003 that enabled poverty monitoring, but it was not only incomparable to the
2001 data, but it also came two years too early to be useful for evaluation of the PAL program. The ICR
team learned that a conscious decision was made during the 2003 LSMS where comparability to the 2001
survey was sacrificed in favor of an improved survey.

Although the program pillars were coherently packaged and complemented the overall program, the
PAL program did not provide sufficient information on the actual (or potential) social impact of some
of the main reforms on the poor and vulnerable groups. The PAL program made only partial
assessments of the social impact of reforms. This was particularly relevant weakness given that some of the
reforms in the first and second operations, (for example, privatization and restructuring/ liquidation of
SOEs), had considerable potential for adverse impact on the poor and vulnerable groups. However, there
were some measures undertaken by the program to protect the vulnerable groups from the adverse impacts
of reforms, including strengthening of the active labor market policies (ALMPs) for displaced workers, and
the analysis and subsequent design of energy tariff structure and benefits following the privatization of the
energy sector. There was a poverty and social impact assessment (PSIA) of the privatization of bulgatabac
on tobacco farmers and a similar one on the railway reforms.

Another design inadequacy was that the political economy aspects of structural and institutional
reforms may have been taken too lightly. For instance, too much emphasis was put on the privatization
and restructuring/liquidation of bulgatabac.     This was the case despite its declining economic and
demonstrative significance after successful conclusion of PAL1, difficulties in earlier attempts to privatize
the Company, and notwithstanding the risk of the prevailing domestic political environment (e.g., strong
Turkish minority party was opposing the privatization of the Company) and adverse market conditions. It



                                                    - 7 -

was understandable that the government wanted to send clear and emphatic signal to the markets and
investors regarding its willingness to take tough measures to improve the business climate. However, less
prominence of bulgatabac would have been more advisable than making the privatization of bulgatabac a
key aspect of PAL to extent of instituting a floating second-tranche in PAL2 with privatization of
bulgatabac being the sole condition for its release. Splitting PAL2 into two tranches for highlighting the
privatization of Bulgatabac might have created a perverse incentive: the Bank may have lost some leverage
for pushing for its privatization by doing so.

Quality at entry of PAL3
Quality at entry of PAL3 is rated satisfactory. The design of PAL3 was consistent with overall program
objectives, and built on the accomplishments of the first two operations while maintaining focus on human
development and social sectors as originally formulated. It complemented the priorities identified in the
original PAL program and took into account the lessons and stocktaking reviews of previous operations.
PAL3 was also informed by a number of analytic works such as a note on labor market flexibility,
disability policy note and social assistance effectiveness study, all undertaken as part of the design and
implementation of the program.        However, some of the contentious activities of the previous PAL
operations were pushed to PAL3, increasing its scope and complexity. Moreover, implementation of the
social sector agenda coincided with the election cycle in 2005. The incumbent government was hesitant at
times to go forward with bold reforms in politically sensitive areas such as the labor market. As some of
the reforms advanced in the social sectors did not represent direct EU accession requirements--which
largely focused on establishing a functioning market economy, achieving competitiveness, improving the
business environment and reforming the public administration--the political will of the government to push
forward with difficult reforms appeared to decline during PAL3.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall PAL program was highly successful in achieving its desired objectives. This assessment is
based on the implementation of specific structural and institutional reforms as well as achievement of the
broader stated objectives of private-led growth, poverty and unemployment reduction, and EU accession to
which these reforms were expected to contribute. The major impact of the PAL was to play a catalytic role
in bolstering private sector confidence through its support of the country's structural and institutional
reforms, which it successfully accomplished.       Successful implementation of structural reforms, and
measures taken to improve the business climate, deepen the financial sector and enhance public sector
administration and social services delivery strengthened Bulgaria's ability to sustain growth and led to
overall improvements in the standard of living (see Table 3). Reforms achieved by the PAL program
helped keep Bulgaria on track for EU accession.

                                      Table 3. Key Economic Indicators




                                                    - 8 -

                                                        2001      2002       2003         2004      Estimated
                                                                                                       2005
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    1,630     1,790       2,130        2,690        2846
 Real GDP growth (% change)                              4.1       4.9         4.5         5.6          5.6
 Employment rate2                                       38.7      40.3        42.3        43.6          44.7
 Unemployment rate (registered)3                        19.7      16.8        12.7        11.8          9.9
 Labor force participation rate4                        48.1      48.4        48.5        49.4          49.0
 Share of long-term unemployment5                       63.2      65.8        66.3        60.0          63.1
 Inflation                                               4.8       3.8         5.6         4.0          6.5
 Total expenditure & grants (% of GDP) 1                 40       38.7        38.2          39           39
 Overall Fiscal Balance (% of GDP) 1                    -0.6      -0.6         0.0         1.7          2.4
 Current Account Balance (% of GDP)                     -7.2      -5.6        -9.2         -8.5        -14.9
 FDI Inflows (% of GDP)                                  5.9       5.8        10.3         9.2          7.6
 External Debt (% of GDP)                               78.6      65.1        60.5        63.3          67.7
 Public debt to GDP                                     69.9      56.2        47.8        40.9          32.4
 Private sector to GDP                                  70.0      70.0        75.0        75.0          75.0
 Private share of gross value added                     71.4       73         76.7        76.5          79.5
 Domestic investment growth (%)                         20.1       4.4        18.2        14.8          21.2
 Export growth (fob, %)                                  6.0      11.3        32.5        30.6          19.2
 Gross capital formation, % GDP                         20.7      19.8        21.7        23.5          26.6
 gross fixed capital formation, % GDP                   18.3      18.3        19.3        20.9          22.3
 Growth, gross fixed capital formation                 123.3     108.5       113.9         112         117.7



    Notes: p refers to preliminary projection; consolidated general government, national methodology, cash basis;
                                              1


    2employed/population aged 15+; unemployed looking for a job/(employed + unemployed looking for a job);
                                     3                                                                         4


    (employed + unemployed looking for a job)/population aged 15+; unemployed looking for a job for more than
                                                                     5


    one year/unemployed looking for a job. (Sources: National Statistical Institute, Bulgarian National Bank,
    Ministry of Finance, and the World Bank)

Macroeconomic performance was very good during the PAL period (Table 3). The implementation of
structural reforms as envisaged in the PAL program contributed to a sustained improvement in
macroeconomic performance. Bulgaria showed stronger macroeconomic fundamentals during and following
PAL implementation: economic growth remained solid, the private sector share in the economy increased,
FDI increased considerably, registered unemployment continued to decline, fiscal accounts are projected to
run a surplus of 2% in 2005, gross international reserves increased to US$4.4 billion (or more than five
months of imports), and financial intermediation continued to improve. Bulgaria reached the Maastricht
Treaty target of a public debt to GDP ratio of less than 60% in 2002 from 100% in 1997, and the estimated
ratio of 32.4% for 2005 is less than half of the 2001 ratio of 69.9%. As a result, per capita income is
increasing and the country's creditworthiness indicators improved (see Table 4). Bulgaria had made
significant progress in its EU accession program with the European Commission declaring the country as a
functioning market economy for four years in a row since 2002.

Owing to macroeconomic stability and an improved business climate, investor confidence improved,
both domestically and externally. Bulgaria's long-term foreign and local currency debt was upgraded
from speculative to an investment grade rating in the summer of 2004 and the ratings have continued to
improve since then (Table 4). Combined foreign and domestic investment reached 23.5% of GDP in 2004,
closing the gap with the EU8 average of 25%.




                                                       - 9 -

 Table 4. Bulgaria debt has received a rating of investment grade during the PAL
                                  S&P                                          Fitch
    Year        Foreign currency      Local Currency        Foreign currency         Local Currency
    1998                B                    B                      B+                      BB
    2000               B+                   BB-                     B+                      BB
    2001               BB-                   BB                    BB-                      BB
    2002               BB                   BB+                    BB-                     BB+
    2003              BB+                  BBB-                    BB+                     BBB-
    2004              BBB-                  BBB                    BBB-                    BBB
    2005              BBB-                  BBB                    BBB                    BBB+
 Source: Ministry of Finance, Republic of Bulgaria. (Investment grade ratings are highlighted in bold.)



However, there are some deficiencies and potential risks in the macroeconomic environment that may
affect Bulgaria's medium term prospects. These include the rapid acceleration of credit to the private
sector and increase in current account deficit. A credit boom contributed to a surge in domestic demand that
has led to a deterioration of the external current account deficit, which widened to 8.4 % of GDP in 2003
and projected to increase to nearly 15% of GDP in 2005. In part as a result of increase in current account
deficit, the external debt ratio climbed up to over 63% of GDP in 2004 after declining to 60.5% in 2003.
Moreover, the inflation rate appears high for a country with a CBA, and this could affect Bulgaria's
competitiveness and macroeconomic sustainability in not too distant future.

Fulfillment of Conditionality: It should be noted that the PAL3 Performance Benchmarks Matrix contains
265 milestones for the overall PAL program, of which 31 were designated as PAL1 Board conditions, or
PAL 2 or PAL3 triggers. Of these conditions, which are printed in bold in each of the 3 PAL Performance
Benchmarks Matrices, all were completely fulfilled except those 3 listed in the Table 5 below. Of the 3,
some were modified or downgraded due to changing circumstances or perceptions, or due to political
considerations.




                                                      - 10 -

 Table 5: Core conditions downgraded or not completely fulfilled as formulated
    Board Conditions or Triggers                  Revisions/ Retentions            Outcome/circumstances
 Privatization or liquidation of the large  Changing market and domestic         Bulgartabak remains state-
 SOEs listed in Annex 6B (Bulgartabak)      political conditions made it         owned; US$25 million second
                                            difficult to complete the            tranche under PAL2 not
                                            privatization of Bulgartabak. The    disbursed
                                            condition substituted by             -BTC successfully privatized
                                            privatization of the Bulgarian
                                            Telecommunication Company
                                            (BTC).
 Enactment of amendments to the Labor       A thorough review of the Bulgarian   -Drafted law on the Bulstat
 Code to promote flexibility                Labor Code suggested that the        Register to introduce single
                                            Bulgarian Labor Code is not overly   identification number; COM
                                            restrictive. In its place, business  approved a strategy to take out
                                            registration to improve the          business registration from the
                                            conditions for entry of new firms    courts and judges
                                            was elevated to a Board condition    -Some success was achieved
                                                                                 through amendments to the
                                                                                 Public Health Law which
                                                                                 provide for greater control of
                                                                                 misuse of sick leave
                                                                                 -Labor force participation rate
                                                                                 remains low, in part due to
                                                                                 policy that constrains labor
                                                                                 market flexibility
 Reduction in railway labor force by 20%    The trigger was adjusted to focus    -Cumulative reduction of 13%
 compared to the level at end of 2001       on the financial position of         in railway labor force
                                            railways by closing non-economic     -Financial position of railways
                                            lines, termination of services, and  improved substantially:
                                            additional staff reductions          Reduced railways subsidy to
                                                                                 0.2% of GDP and achieved
                                                                                 financial working ratio of
                                                                                 100%.

 Source: PAL1, PAL2, and PAL3 project documents




Growth Objective
    ·   Achieve 4.5 ­ 5.0% average annual growth in GDP during 2002-2005

Bulgaria achieved a sustained average annual GDP growth rate of close to 5% between 2002--2005 (4.9%
in 2002, 4.5% in 2003, 5.6% in 2004 and 5.8% in 2005) (see Table 3 above). The achievements in the
GDP growth objective has thus met or exceeded the program goal of 4.5-5.0%. The observed growth
has been led by the private sector, which accounted for about 79.5% of gross value added (GVA) in 2005.
The private sector share of GDP in Bulgaria has grown fuelled by privatization and improvement in the
business climate, and an associated boom in foreign direct investment (FDI). FDI flows increased to about
44% of total investment in 2003 compared to 25% in 1998. Most recently, FDI has more than doubled to
about $2.7 billion in 2005 from its level of $1.2 billion in 2004 (EBRD), which elicited mention of
potential "Balkan Tiger" for Bulgaria by members of foreign business communities (see December 12,
2005 issue of Business Week Magazine). Owing to an improved investment climate, the investment share
of GDP has reached 23.5% of GDP in 2004, close to the new EU member states' average of 25%.



                                                       - 11 -

However, public and private investment is concentrated in sectors geared to servicing domestic instead of
export markets, and much of the FDI boom remains focused on inward-oriented activities. Thus, sustaining
growth will require upgrading the skills of labor force and continued improvements in competitiveness and
the business environment.

Unemployment Objective
   l Reduce unemployment rate from 18.1% in 2001 to 12-14% in 2005


The unemployment rate, which peaked at over 18% in 2000 and 2001 and was one of the highest in the
region, declined to 9.2% in the third quarter of 2005 (averaging 10.2 for the first three quarters of 2005).
The achievement in unemployment reduction exceeded the program goal of 12-14%. The long-term
unemployment rate has shown similar tendency to decline, with a corresponding increase in labor force
participation. Part of the decline in the unemployment rate has been due to the GOB's active labor market
programs. In 2003, active labor market policies (ALMPs) and private sector job creation contributed in
equal measure to a total of 5 percentage point reduction in unemployment rate. In 2004, there was a net
employment creation by the private sector which contributed to a further reduction in unemployment rate to
11.8% for the year.

Progress in lowering the share of long-term unemployment and increasing the labor force
participation rate has been modest, however. Bulgaria's labor force participation rate is still one of the
lowest in the region. This is due in part to Bulgaria's labor market policy, which mandates large benefits
(e.g., seniority premiums, regardless of relevance of skills to current job) for those with long-term, full-time
employment contracts and does not allow for flexible hiring through the use of temporary or part-time
contracts. The PAL program made little progress in improving labor market flexibility, despite having
"promotion of labor market flexibility" as one of its goals under Pillar 2.

Figure 1. The GOB met its growth and unemployment goals during PAL

                     8                                                       20

                     6                                                       18


                     4                                                       16

                                                                             14
                     2
                                                                                 rates
      rates                                                                  12
                     0
                       1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 200510

           growth    -2
                                                                             8

                 GDP -4
                                                                             6
                                            growth     unemployment rate              Unemployment
                     -6                                                      4

                     -8                                                      2

                    -10                                                      0


Sources: National Statistical Institute, and the World Bank




                                                           - 12 -

Poverty Objective
    ·   Reduce poverty by half between 2001 and 2005.

Timely and suitable data are not available to directly assess whether the poverty objective was achieved.
The 2002 Poverty Assessment Report by the Bank was based on the 2001 household survey data, which
formed the baseline for PAL poverty objective. The most recent Bulgaria household survey was done in
2003; however, it is not comparable to the 2001 data. As the PAL program's goal was to halve poverty in
2005 from its level in 2001, the 2003 survey also came two years too early to use it to assess the poverty
objective. As a result, the ICR used an indirect means of evaluation of the poverty goal.

The ICR team simulated a poverty headcount index using the 2001 poverty level as a base. For poverty
simulation, the concept of elasticity is employed taking advantage of the availability of average household
consumption data for all relevant years from the National Statistics Institute of Bulgaria. The degree to
which poverty responds to growth is captured in the notion of growth elasticity of poverty which measures
the change in poverty for a given change in growth. In general, the growth elasticity of poverty would be
negative, as growth and poverty tend to move in opposite directions. For example, if poverty elasticity of
growth is 2, then a 1% increase in growth will lead to 2% reduction in poverty. From the simulations in
Table 6, assuming that there was 1.5 or higher growth elasticity of poverty, the poverty reduction objective
of the PAL could be considered achieved.

From regional experience, the probability that Bulgaria's growth elasticity of poverty was greater
than 1.5 is high. During 1998-2003, according to the 2005 ECA regional flagship report, "Growth,
Poverty, and Inequality in ECA", average growth elasticity of poverty for Southeastern Europe (SEE) was
estimated at 2.5. Assuming the SEE countries (including Romania and Serbia) are good proxies for
Bulgaria with regard to poverty and growth linkages, it is reasonable to expect that growth elasticity of
poverty in Bulgaria would be at least 1.5. Therefore, although direct measurement of poverty in 2005 is
not possible due to lack of comparable data, it is highly likely that PAL achieved its ambitious objective of
halving poverty in 2005 from its level in 2001. If in fact the growth elasticity of poverty were higher, say it
were to be equal to the SEE average of 2.5, the PAL program would be considered to overachieve its
poverty reduction goal by close to 3 percentage points. With the caution that the poverty levels reported
below are simulated approximations, the poverty reduction objective of the PAL program is rated
satisfactory.

       Table 6. Household consumption expenditures and poverty in Bulgaria, 2001-2005
                                                      2001       2002        2003       2004        2005
        Household per capita, expenditures            1492       1710        1853       2068        2250
        Growth                                        2.9        14.6        8.4        11.6        8.8
        Poverty (headcount):                          12.8
        Growth elasticity of poverty = 1.0                       10.9        10.0       8.9         8.2
        Growth elasticity of poverty = 1.5                       10.0        8.7        7.2         6.4
        Growth elasticity of poverty = 2.0                       9.1         7.5        5.8         4.9
        Growth elasticity of poverty = 2.5                       8.1         6.4        4.6         3.7
        Growth elasticity of poverty = 3.0                       7.2         5.4        3.5         2.7
 Source: ICR team estimates based on data from the National Statistics Institute, GOB.
 Poverty figures for 2002-2005 are simulated taking the 2001 poverty headcount rate of 12.8, as reported in the
 original PAL document, as a base.




                                                      - 13 -

EU Accession
   l Make substantial progress towards accession to the European Union (EU)


The PAL program made a significant contribution to the GOB's EU accession and integration agenda
. The program complemented and supported government efforts in building a functioning market economy
and the capacity to cope with the competitive pressures and market forces within the EU. In many cases,
EU directives did not come with detailed action plans for implementation, so the PAL program and the
Bank devised programs, developed approaches and `how to' instruction for Bulgarian authorities to meet
the conditions for successful accession. In its Regular Reports in 2002-2005, the European Commission
(EC) assessed Bulgaria as a functioning market economy (see Table A in Section 10). The achievement of
the PAL program objective of helping to build a competitive market economy through stable
macroeconomic performance and private sector-led growth was a critical factor in Bulgaria's ability to sign
the accession treaty. To a significant extent, as a result of PAL reforms, Bulgaria became eligible to sign
the accession treaty in April 2005 to join the EU by the target date of January, 2007.

Outcome of PAL3
Based on the attribution of many of PAL program achievements to PAL3, the outcome is rated satisfactory
. PAL3 was overall successful in achieving its intended reforms as well as most unfinished measures "left
over" from PAL1 and PAL2. Accomplishments of the previous PALs were sustained and enhanced by
PAL3. During PAL3, the momentum of economic growth was maintained, unemployment continued to
decline, and Bulgaria signed its EU accession treaty. Although direct measurements are not available, as
simulation above showed, poverty continued to decline.

PAL3 supported completion of many reforms started during PALs 1 and 2; for example, in the energy
sector, the completion of the privatization of the seven electricity distribution companies and the sale of
seven district heating companies, and in the telecom sector, the privatization of the Bulgarian
Telecommunications Company (BTC). PAL3 supported the near-completion of the program for divesting
non-infrastructure SOEs, and more than 80% of the SOEs in which the government had majority control in
2002 have now been sold or liquidated.

PAL3 supported deregulation, particularly of business entry, and improvement in the delivery of services to
businesses. It introduced a strategy for streamlining business registration, and to remove the process from
the court system, which would benefit from the reduced burden. In the area of public sector governance,
PAL3 advanced reforms initiated under PAL2 to establish a merit based and depoliticized civil service and
more efficient judiciary. It helped to jumpstart optimization and rationalization of government structure
through completion of functional reviews and surveys to identify reorganization opportunities.

Finally in the social sectors, the main contributions of PAL3 were advancing the pension reform, reform of
the disability benefits payments system, and social integration of the minorities. Achievement in the
pension area included: greater protection of pension legislation by its placement in Budget Law (deemed to
be a more durable location) and elimination of "double-dipping" of disability and retirement pension
provisions concurrently. With regard to social integration, PAL3 made significant contributions to enhance
the opportunities for equal access to education for children from poor families and ethnic minorities.

However, PAL3 was less successful in achieving significant progress in a small number of its core
conditions (see Table 5 above). PAL3 was envisioned to achieve a cumulative 20% reduction in railway
labor force compared to the level at end of 2001. At the conclusion of PAL3, however, only a cumulative
13% reduction was achieved as the focus shifted to ensuring financial sustainability of the railway sector.
Except for anti-discrimination law, no other anticipated significant amendments were made to the Labor


                                                    - 14 -

Code to promote flexibility as originally envisioned.

4.2 Outputs by components:
This section presents the outputs by components for the entire program as well as for each of its three
operations. The key accomplishments of the three PAL operations within each of the 5 pillars are reported
in Table B in Section 10.

1. Sustaining Structural Reforms
Objective:
   l Rationalize the role of the state by privatizing activities that can be better performed by the
          private sector
   l Increase the share of the private sector in GDP to about 70 - 75% by 2005


Overall structural reform was satisfactory. PAL3 supported the completion of privatization and
restructuring of SOEs that was initiated by PAL1 and advanced under PAL2. More than 80% of the
remaining SOEs in which the government had majority control in 2002 have been sold or liquidated, and
most companies in which the government had minority shares have also been divested. PAL3 completed
the privatizations of large SOEs in the energy and telecommunications sectors--particularly the seven
electricity distribution companies--and the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company (BTC). Bulgaria's
performance in large scale privatization is now on a par with the best performing transition countries. In
tandem with complementary reforms in the business climate and financial sectors, this contributed to the
expansion of the private sector to a projected 69% of GDP in 2005 compared to about 64% in 2002
(Figure 3). As a result, EBRD upgraded Bulgaria's transition indicators for large scale privatizations in
2004, infrastructure and banking reform in 2004, and competition policy in 2005 (Table 7).


 Table 7. Bulgaria's EBRD transition indicators improved during PAL implementation

                            Enterprises                          Markets and Trade                      Financial Institutions         Infrast
                                                                                                                                       ructure
             Large-          Small-      Governan     Price          Trade &      Competiti      Banking           Securities          Infrast
             Scale           scale       ce &         liberalizat    foreign      on policy      reform &          market & non-       ructure
             privatizati     privatizati enterprise   ion            ex-change                   interest rate     bank financial      reform
             on              on          restructuri                 system                      liberalization    institutions
                                         ng
    2002          4-             4-          2+            3             4+           2+               3+                  2+            3-
    2003          4-             4-          3-*          4+             4+           2+               3+                  2+            3-
    2004          4?             4-          3-           4+             4+           2+               4-*                 2+            3*
    2005          4              4-          3-           4+             4+           3-*               4-                 2+             3
    Source: EBRD, Transition Reports 2002 and 2005. The transition indicators range from 1 to 4+, with 1 representing little or no change
    from a rigid centrally planned economy and 4+ representing the standards of an industrialized market economy. * reflect areas of upgrade
    over the previous year.




The main outstanding and unfinished agenda in the PAL program's large privatization is bulgatabac
company. Attempts to press for the privatization of Bulgatabac, including a second tranche condition in
PAL2 and extending closing date, failed. Per GOB's proposal, to which the Bank agreed, PAL2 closed on
March 31 2005 without the second tranche disbursing. Lack of progress in the privatization of Bulgatabac,
while it reflects poorly on the achievements of the PAL program as set out during its design, had a
negligible demonstrative effect on GOB's seriousness to enhance private sector participation in growth.




                                                                   - 15 -

                        Figure 2: Private sector share of Gross Value Added and GDP (%)

               80

               75

               70

               65

               60

               55

               50
                     1996    1997    1998    1999     2000    2001     2002      2003    2004    2005*

                                     Gross Value Added       Gross Domestic Product

                   Source: National Statistics Institute of Bulgaria; *first three quarters of 2005



Bulgaria's energy intensity has been significantly reduced: from 0.397 kg oil equivalent per  2000 PPP in
2001 to 0.357 in 2004 (the 2005 figure is not available yet, which is anticipated to show further
reduction)--a 10% reduction. Several reform measures under PAL3 and its predecessors contributed to
this outcome including: (1) energy prices have been rationalized, with prices now at cost recovery levels;
(2) the legal and regulatory framework has been improved through enactment of a new Energy Act
consistent with EU energy directives; (4)         the institutional capacity of the State Energy Regulatory
Commission (SERC) was upgraded; and (5) electricity distribution and generation companies were spun
off from the former monopoly electricity company (NEK), and NEK was further restructured by legally
separating its transmission business from power trading. PAL3 achieved significant private sector entry in
the energy sector, through 100% privatization of electricity distribution with the sale of all seven
distribution companies and seven (compared to the target of five) district heating companies.

PAL restructuring of the railway sector was successful. The GOB's targets for financial sustainability
established for end-2005 had been met by end-2004: operating subsidies (excluding funds for investment)
fell from 0.5% of GDP in 2000 to 0.2%; for both operating company and railway infrastructure company,
financial working ratios were close to 100% (not including government subsidies). Railway productivity
has increased by 12%. PAL achieved this outcome through: (1) establishment of a new railway operating
company (BDZ) and a new railway infrastructure state enterprise (NCRI); (2) accounting separation of the
freight and passenger operating services; (3) establishing market rules to enable entry of private firms and
eventual privatization of the railway operating company; (4) closure of non-economic lines and termination
of loss-making passenger services; (5) reduction of the railway labor force by 13% at end-2004 compared
to end-2001; (6) increase in cost recovery in inter-city passenger services; and finally (7) regular Public
Service Contract (PSC) agreement between the government and the railway operating company BDZ EAD.



In the telecommunication sector, by end 2004, substantial progress was made toward PAL benchmarks:
     ·   Digitalization of transfer network, 94% vs. PAL goal of 100%
     ·   Digitalization of transit exchanges, 79% vs. PAL goal of 82%



                                                       - 16 -

     ·    Digitalization of fixed subscribers, 33% vs. PAL goal of 46%

Additional progress has been made in each of these areas in 2005. The government's end-2005 target that
94% of households with telecom services have internet access has been met. Telephone connection waiting
time was significantly less than one month. This was achieved by fully liberalizing telecom markets
consistent with the EU accession agreement. Structural progress was made by establishment of the
Communications Regulation Commission (CRC) and its institutional upgrading enhanced the legal and
regulatory framework substantially. The enactment of a new Telecommunications Law in September 2003,
consistent with best practice and with EU accession, reinforced CRC independence, transparency, and
accountability. And the government completed privatization of BTC and abolished its monopoly over the
provision of fixed voice telecom services, leased lines and trans-border voice transmissions.

Efforts to modernize the water sector were less successful, in part owing to challenges posed to private
sector participation due to difficulties coordinating private sector entry with the flow of EU grant funds to
utilities which have concessions or management contracts. This was the primary reason for the delays in
developing a public/private model in the water and wastewater utilities in Varna and Shumen. As of
November 2004, the operating ratio The ratio of operating costs including depreciation to total revenue. of
water companies was 88%, and the GOB scaled back its objective of achieving a reduction in the operating
ratios of water companies to 80% by the end of 2005. Under PAL, the GOB adopted a new Water Sector
Strategy, which emphasized the importance of public/ private partnerships to provide adequate water
service for all citizens, to implement wastewater treatment in line with EU directives, and to rehabilitate
and construct water and sewerage networks. A new Water Regulatory Law was enacted in January, 2005.

2.        Establishing a market-friendly business environment
Objectives:
     ·    Attract FDI at an average annual rate of US$ 1.0 billion (of which greenfield FDI would be at
     least 50%) during 2002-05
     ·    Increase the share of SMEs in value added and employment to at least 50% by 2005
     ·    Increase the private sector share of GDP to 70% by 2005

Overall achievement of reforms for establishing business-friendly environment was satisfactory.
Competition in the domestic market, which was limited by an overly complex regulatory environment and
inefficient contract enforcement, has now improved following PAL regulatory and judicial reforms over the
last three years. As a result, FDI flows to Bulgaria compare favorably with those in new EU member
states. Average annual FDI inflows have been about US$1.6 billion a year between 2001 and 2004 (60%
more than the program target). The SME share of employment increased to 56.7% in 2003 from 50.6% in
2000 and its share of value added increased to 36.2% in 2003 from 29.5% in 2000.

The government streamlined regulatory regimes to reduce private sector transaction costs. Most centrally
managed regulatory regimes for licensing, permission and registration were eliminated or modified. At the
start of the PAL program the Inter-ministerial Working Group for the Optimization of Regulatory Regimes
reviewed 360 centrally-managed regulatory regimes and approved elimination of 71 and modification of
121 of these regimes. An Internet-based public register of all current operative regulatory regimes is in
place which is more transparent and accessible. The Law on Administrative Regulation and Administrative
Control on Economic Activities, enacted under PAL2, now controls the development of future licensing
regimes and codifies the principles needed to underpin introduction of new regimes.

The Bank emphasized business registration as central, especially as labor market reforms were



                                                     - 17 -

de-emphasized. Effective Bank-Fund coordination led to inclusion in the IMF program, as a
cross-conditionality, of the adoption by Parliament of the Bulstat Law, and approval by government of a
strategy to remove business registration from the courts. The enactment of a new Law on the Bulstat
Register would allow businesses to use the Bulstat number as the single-identification number for
registration as well as tax and social security payments. This would free the registration system from
relying on the courts, using a non-judicial administrative process, and establishment of a unified national
register. In addition, the release of judges from routine administrative procedures would free up their time
and, as a result, will reduce delays associated with the resolution of commercial disputes. Partly as a
result, the % of firms indicating business licensing and permits as a problem of doing business declined
substantially, as did the proportion of firms indicating uncertainty of regulatory policies and bribery as
problems of doing business (see Figure 3).

       Figure 3. Bulgaria's business climate showed improvement following PAL implementation
    Regulatory policies as a problem doing business (% of       Business licenses as a problem doing
    firms indicating uncertainty about regulatory policies as a business (% of firms indicating business
    problem doing business)                                     licensing and permits as a problem doing
                                                                business)
        100%

          80%                                                       40%

          60%                                                       30%

          40%                                                       20%

          20%                                                        10%
           0%
                  Bul          EU8          SEE                      0%
                                                                             Bul       EU8       SEE

                         2002   2005
                                                                                  2002   2005


  Source: BEEPS, 2002 and 2005.



The PAL program initially included as a PAL3 trigger the enactment of amendments to the Labor Code to
promote labor market flexibility. However, this was later downgraded and replaced with a benchmark that
was met, calling for Government consultation with stakeholders on labor market rigidities such as
inflexibility of working time and insufficient adaptability of wages, and the elevation of a benchmark
regarding business registration reform to a trigger. This change was made due to the political difficulties of
implementing labor market reforms in an election year and in light of international comparisons indicating
Bulgaria's labor regulations were not overly restrictive. As a result, limited enhancements to labor market
flexibility were achieved than initially planned under the PAL program. Bulgaria needs greater flexibility in
its labor market in order to be competitive given its Currency Board Arrangement, low employment rate,
and aging population. Furthermore, from 2002 to 2005, there is evidence that a mismatch between the
skills of available workers and the needs of business developed (Figure 4). This was not a shortcoming of
the PAL program or of PAL3, but was in all likelihood more of a by-product of the success in enterprise
privatization and restructuring and of the increased efficiency of the insolvency process. Thus, promotion
of labor market flexibility, together with a comprehensive reform of the education system, would be crucial
for dealing with skills mismatches and for taking advantage of improved business climate through PAL
reforms.




                                                        - 18 -

  Figure 4. Labor conditions improved, but skill mismatches increased.
  Labor regulations as a problem doing business        Workers' education as a problem doing
  (% of firms indicating labor regulations as a        business (% of firms indicating skills and
  problem doing business)                              education of available workers as a problem doing
                                                       business)
       40%

       30%                                                  40%

                                                            30%
       20%
                                                            20%
        10%                                                 10%

         0%                                                  0%
                 Bul        EU8          SEE                        Bul        EU8          SEE


                       2002   2005                                         2002  2005



  Source: BEEPS 2002 and 2005.



However, notwithstanding the scaled-back activity in reforming the Labor Code, achievement in ensuring
competition and functioning markets was significant.           In the context of EU accession, the GOB
strengthened competition policies through its Commission for the Protection of Competition (CPC). The
administrative capacity and effectiveness of CPC were enhanced through enactment of amendments to the
Law on the Protection of Competition, and the number of antitrust decisions nearly doubled between 2003
and November 2004 (from 64 to 112). Additional achievements in this area included:
    ·    Amendments to the Labor Code were enacted in 2004 to strengthen anti-discrimination provisions.

    ·    Amendments to the Health Act, enacted under PAL3, aimed to reduce the incidence of abuse of
    sick leave provisions.
    ·    Regulatory barriers to the private provision of employment services were removed.

Figure 5 shows that the GOB was successful in accelerating the insolvency process and facilitating the exit
of non-viable enterprises. The PAL goal had already been achieved in 2004 in that the average time for
resolving insolvency cases fell by six months between 2003 and 2004, close to that found in other advanced
transition economies.      In this effort, PAL3 supported development of further amendments to the
Commercial Code to accelerate insolvency procedures, in particular through guaranteeing the rights and
independence of trustees, and strengthened protection of the rights of private creditors.        More stringent
criteria for licensing and dismissal of trustees have been introduced, and their monitoring and control by the
Ministry of Justice and the courts has been strengthened. Information and monitoring systems have been
introduced in all commercial departments of the courts under PAL3 which should make possible closer
monitoring of insolvency cases and timely identification of the main bottlenecks to their resolution.




                                                      - 19 -

                          Figure 5. Closing a business in Bulgaria has become easier

                     Time of insolvency (years)                        Cost of insolency (% of estate)


             4                                               20

           3.8
                                                             15
           3.6
                                                             10
           3.4

           3.2                                                5

             3                                                0
                      2003                   2005
                                                                         2003                     2005


 Source: Doing Business 2004 and 2006




3. Deepening the Financial system
Objectives:
   l Increase private sector loans to GDP from 15% at end-2001 to 25% by end-2005, a ratio closer
         to those of advanced transition economies
   l The private sector share of banking assets reaches 98%, while maintaining prudential standards
         during 2002-05

Overall achievements of PAL in the financial sector reform were satisfactory. Since most reforms in the
financial sector were completed during PALs 1 and 2, PAL3 did not significantly engage in financial
system reforms. As such, this rating is attributed to the overall PAL program, not specifically to PAL3. In
accordance with the GOB objectives, the M2/GDP ratio increased to an estimated 53% of GDP in
December 2004 from 42% at end-2001, credit to the private sector increased to an estimated 36.9% of
GDP in 2004 from 15% in 2001, and real credit to the private sector increased annually by almost 40% in
2003 and 43% in 2004. Some 98% of bank assets have been privatized leading to a well-capitalized, well
supervised and profitable banking sector. Also 100% of Bulgaria's insurance sector has been privatized. In
addition, the Law on Measures against Terrorist Financing was enacted, and the Law on Measures
against Money Laundering was amended in line with international standards and good practices. The legal
framework was amended to introduce global custodianship as well as more flexibility in the investment
regime to facilitate the movement of pension fund members among funds. These efforts have been
complemented by the pension reform measures undertaken under Pillar 5, particularly the enactment of
legislation specifying a stable path of increases in second pillar contributions.

As a result of these improvements, access to and cost of financing has improved and is now on par with the
new members of the EU (Figure 6). Time to negotiate a loan also decreased following PAL program
implementation. And the EBRD considers Bulgaria's banking legislation compliance with international
standards very high (EBRD, 2005). Financial reporting and auditing requirements in Bulgaria are,
however, still in transition from compliance with national standards to compliance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), International Standards on Auditing (ISA), and the EU Directives
and Regulations.




                                                     - 20 -

  Figure 6. Access to financing improved following PAL implementation
  Access to financing as a problem doing           Cost of financing as a problem doing business
  business (% of firms indicating access to        (% of firms indicating cost of financing (e.g.,
  financing (collateral required or financing not  interest rates and charges) as a problem doing
  available from banks) as a problem doing         business)
  business)
                                                       70%

      70%                                              60%

      60%                                              50%
      50%
                                                       40%
      40%
                                                       30%
      30%

      20%                                              20%


      10%                                              10%

       0%                                               0%
               Bul        EU8         SEE                       Bul          EU8         SEE


                     2002   2005                                         2002 2005



  Source: BEEPS 2002 and 2005



4. Public Sector Governance
Objectives:
    l Improve the administrative capacity through implementation of an overall system of human
         resource management and performance appraisal and closing down ineffective and overlapping
         structures, by end-2005

Reform in public administration is rated satisfactory, especially in the light of its very early stage at the
commencement of the PAL program. Key goals in this area included strengthening public administration
capacity, enhancing public expenditure management, and increasing the accountability, efficiency and
effectiveness of the judicial system. The bulk of public sector reform activities were initiated during the
first two operations, particularly under PAL2. Under PAL3, key reforms included development and
implementation of anti-corruption strategy, strengthening of capacity of public administration and local
governments, depoliticizing the civil service, instituting competitive recruitment of public servants,
strengthening reform management, and reforming public administration and the judiciary. In the area of
public expenditure management, PAL3 helped increase the allocative efficiency and transparency of budget
formulation; strengthen the budget execution system and processes; and enhance the effectiveness of
internal and external accountability arrangements as well as the system of intergovernmental finance.

The anti-corruption strategy provided a unifying framework for combating corruption and increasing
accountability and transparency. Anti-corruption public councils have been established in 21 (out of 28)
regional administrations. There was a 213% increase in applications to government bodies for access to
public information in 2003 compared to 2002 from 21, 649 to 67, 712 requests. Independent reviews
indicate that issues of public governance have improved, but important challenges remain. As a result,
custom tax regulation and corruption as problems of doing business have eased; however, Bulgaria still
fares worse than the new member states of EU (Figure 7).




                                                   - 21 -

  Figure 7: Customs regulations and corruption as problems of doing business
  Custom regulations as a problem doing business (%          Corruption as a problem doing business
  of firms indicating custom regulations as a problem        (% of firms indicating corruption as a problem
  doing business)                                            doing business)

      40%
                                                                  60%
      30%                                                         50%
                                                                  40%
      20%                                                         30%
                                                                  20%
      10%                                                         10%

        0%                                                         0%
               Bul          EU8           SEE                             Bul        EU8        SEE


                                                                                2002   2005
                        2002  2005


           Source: BEEPS 2002 and 2005



PAL3 supported the implementation of major amendments to the Civil Service Law which were enacted in
2003 (under PAL2) to provide for mandatory competitive selection for new entrants into the civil service.
By 2005, the share of recruitment concluded through competitive procedures reached 100% (Figure 8). All
civil service recruitment exercises launched in 2004 and 2005 involved external competitive processes, as
required under the improved merit-based provisions. Amendments to the Law on State Administration have
been submitted to the National Assembly under PAL3, requiring ministries to set strategic objectives
(linked to program budgets); to strengthen ministry-level strategic planning and policy development
processes; and to provide for depoliticization with respect to the appointment and tenure of senior civil
servants. The operation also supported the implementation of public sector pay increases in 2004 that
reduced the gap with the private sector.

                  Figure 8: Civil service recruitment through competitive exercise, 2002 and 2005

                                                Competitive     Non-competitive


                      100%

                       80%

                       60%

                       40%

                       20%

                        0%
                                           2002                           2005


                              Source: GOB.




Judicial reforms were aimed to enhance the enforceability of contracts and thereby promote private



                                                       - 22 -

business activity. Achievements in this area included: (a) simplifying contract enforcement procedures; (b)
streamlining licensing regimes; (c) taking business registration out of courts and establishing an
independent registry agency under the Ministry of Justice; (d) simplifying documentation required for new
business registration; and (e) introducing statutory response time ("silence is consent" rules) for business
registration and licensing. PAL3 strengthened the administrative justice system, through submission to the
National Assembly of a new Administrative Procedural Code to establish nearly a dozen specialized
administrative courts (in addition to the Supreme Administrative Court). However, the effect of these
reforms on the business community has been less evident so far (Figure 9). Due to institutional
development nature of these changes, it will take some years before the full impact is felt.

  Figure 9. Judicial assessments--before and after PAL implementation
  (% of firms agreeing that the court system is...)

                               All firms                                     F irm s that use courts

    able to enforce its                                        able to enforce its
         decisions                                                 decisions


            affordable                                                 affordable


                 quick                                                      quick


   honest/uncorrupted                                         honest/uncorrupted


     fair and impartial
                                                                fair and impartial


                       0%     25%        50%        75%       100%
                                                                                  0%  25%     50%   75% 100%

                        2005 2002                                                         2005   2002



      Source: BEEPS 2002 and 2005




5. Investing in human capital and strengthening social protection
Objectives:
    ·     Increase school attendance for children from poor households by 2005
    ·     Decrease, administrative costs of NHIF to less than 3% of revenues
    ·     Increase effectiveness in and targeting of GMI, child allowance, and energy benefit programs
    ·     Improve health indicators, including life expectancy, incidence of tuberculosis and other
    infectious diseases, and immunization coverage

This pillar was envisioned to accomplish the empowerment of the population to participate in growth
component of the GOB's two-pronged strategy. This was to be done through: (1) developing and
implementing programs to improve the efficiency and fiscal sustainability of the education system, improve
quality, and maintain equitable access; (2) enhancing the efficiency and fiscal sustainability of the health
system; (3) improving the administration and targeting of disability benefits and empowering the disabled
to integrate fully in society; (4) ensuring successful implementation of pension reform; (5) improving
coverage and efficiency of social assistance programs; and (6) reducing institutionalization of children
through helping families and fostering community based alternatives to institutional care.




                                                     - 23 -

Progress in this pillar is overall rated moderately satisfactory, but with significant variation by area.
PAL3 made significant progress in accomplishing activities (3) to (6), however, the gains in reforming the
education and health sectors (1 and 2) were relatively modest.

An important start had been made to reducing the misuse of disability benefits and fraud in their
administration. First, amendments to the Social Insurance Code were enacted to prohibit award of
disability pensions to individuals above retirement age, bringing the system in line with international
practice. Second, the new Health Act strengthened the role of the National Social Security Institute (NSSI)
in the disability assessment process. Third, the Integration of People with Disabilities Act introduced a
social assessment in addition to a medical assessment to determine options for rehabilitation and
integration. As a result, starting from 2005, no new disability pensions have been awarded to people over
retirement age.

With regard to pension reform, PAL3 completed the first stage of pension reforms, which were initiated
under the earlier PALs, and contributed to the increased stability of the system for old age security. The
medium term directions of key pension parameters ­ contribution rates and benefit indexation rules ­ have
been specified in an amended Social Insurance Code in order to avoid the need to revisit these parameters
every year within the framework of the Budget Law. The Social Insurance Code specified the timetable for
the change in the ratio of employer to employee contribution from 70:30 in 2005 to 50:50 in 2009. It is
anticipated that this will increase the predictability for beneficiaries, contributors, investors, and budget
planners.

Important changes have been introduced into the administration and design of social assistance programs.
The adequacy of the GOB's main program for direct income support (the Guaranteed Minimum Income or
GMI program) to cover basic needs as well as its targeting to the poorest was improved under PAL-3,
particularly for vulnerable groups. Through amendments to the Social Assistance Act, financing of most
forms of social assistance programs was fully transferred to the state budget from shared municipal and
state responsibility. The social assistance local offices became branches of the Social Assistance Agency
under PAL2, which allowed full delivery of the commitments to, and increasing the coverage of the poor.
The amendments to the Social Assistance Act allowed two important provisions: non-state provision of
social services by private individuals, companies and nonprofit entities; and non-state provision of training
and qualification services to registered unemployed which gave a boost to active labor market policies
(ALMPs) and resulted in positive impact on employability. The administration of social assistance benefits
was further improved by empowering the Social Assistance Agency to verify eligibility for social assistance
programs through spot checks. These changes resulted in substantial improvements in the effectiveness of
social assistance programs between 2001 and 2003: the coverage of the poorest quintile by the GMI
program increased 2.7 times and the energy benefit to the poorest quintile increased 1.5 times. Share of
funds channeled to poorest quintile increased from 60 to 75% for GMI, from 20 to 35% for child
allowance, and from 47 to 54% for energy benefit programs. For child allowance program, the share of
funds going to the richest quintile fell fro 40 to 23%.

In the education sector, the main achievements of PAL3 were strengthening policies to increase
opportunities for children from poor families and ethnic minorities, and integration of disadvantaged groups
(particularly Roma children) into primary and secondary education. The Public Education Act and the
relevant secondary legislation were amended to allow the integration of children with special education
needs into the mainstream schools and kindergartens. Building on efforts under earlier PALs to increase
incentives for school attendance for children from poor families, the GOB further strengthened social
benefits, including provision of free textbooks to all primary school children, introducing school feeding in
primary schools, and providing transportation to enable children from remote rural areas to attend school.


                                                     - 24 -

The monthly child allowance benefit was made conditional on school attendance for all eligible school age
children, starting from the school year 2002-03. As a result, school non-attendance rates for among 7-18
year olds from the poorest quintile fell by 20 percentage points between 2001 and 2003 (Figure 10).

However, education sector achievements were not sufficient to improve the efficiency and quality of the
educational system, particularly at the tertiary level, as envisioned. Public expenditures on education did
not show improvement over their 2002 levels (i.e., 4.1% of GDP), despite the GOB's goal to close the gap
with the OECD average of 5.6%. Resistance by sectoral management and staff hindered reform. The GOB
acknowledges the shortcomings of the system and the need for improvement in preparation for the demands
of EU accession.

                   Figure 10: Reduction in school drop-out rates by quintiles, 2001 versus 2003

                                         40.0   37.2

                                         35.0

                    (%)
                                         30.0

                       Rate
                                         25.0
                           Out
                                         20.0       17.2
                              Drop
                                         15.0

                                                            9.9
                                  School                               9.6
                                         10.0
                                                                6.3
                                                                                     4.4
                                          5.0                               2.7          3.1    3.1
                                                                                                    1.4

                                         -
                                                 Poorest       2           3            4       Richest


                                                                       2001  2003

      Source: MTHS 2003.



Under PAL3, the GOB increased the share of the Ministry of Health's operating budget going to National
Health Programs (NHPs) through adoption of legislation to earmark a share of the tobacco excise tax to
fund NHPs. It also increased excise tax rates for tobacco resulting in higher prices (and therefore lower
consumption). The NHIF administrative costs were kept at or below 3% in 2004, in line with the PAL3
goal. Under PAL3, the GOB completed development of an updated National Health Map (NHM), and
adopted legislation to increase tobacco control and regulate consumption in public places. Beyond these,
PAL3 achievements in the health sector were limited. There are still outstanding issues in the health sector
that need to be addressed in order for Bulgaria to attain health care quality and efficiency of EU standard.
The country is far behind in dealing with the ownership and management of hospitals, financial
sustainability of its health insurance system, defining the role and development of private supplementary
health insurance and in identifying the role of social assistance in health care.

While education and health reform fell short of what was envisioned, reforms initiated by PAL3 paved the
way for future Bank engagement in the social sectors, particularly addressing quality, access, governance
and fiscal sustainability issues in education and health care. The new government has identified
continuation of comprehensive policy reforms in health and education as priorities for Bulgaria in the
medium term and as possible areas for future Bank assistance.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable



                                                                    - 25 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is substantial. Successful implementation of privatization,
establishment of independent regulatory bodies as overseers of various newly privatized non-infrastructure
and infrastructure enterprises, improved investor and public confidence in the business and regulatory
environment have provided a remarkable impetus to institutional development. The country has become
attractive to foreign investors, and a recent Business Week Magazine (December 12, 2005) regarded
Bulgaria as having the potential to be the `Balkan Tiger' (analogous to the now famous `Asian Tigers').
The changes achieved in the policy and regulatory environment are far-reaching both because of the nature
of the changes and their potential long-term sustainability.       And the reforms were outward looking,
embracing international best-practice, the principles of market economy and globalization, and were aimed
at achieving harmonization with the EU accession requirements. Most of the reforms are here to stay
because they made Bulgaria a fully functioning market economy and there are no good reasons for the
GOB and the public to backtrack.

The PAL series enabled Bulgaria to successfully implement second generation reforms, where the emphasis
was on building institutions involving the establishment or strengthening of market rules and the
enforcement capacity, which are likely to be sustainable. For instance, institutional arrangements and
structures setup to ensure the successful implementation of PAL reforms such as the Council for Economic
Policy, Council for State Administration Modernization and Anti-corruption Coordination Commission,
and several newly established independent regulatory agencies and commissions are likely here to stay as
effective and active institutions for positive change in the country.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The successful implementation of the overall PAL program and PAL3 is to a large degree attributable to
the strong commitment of the GOB to EU accession. The country has made a collective decision to join the
community of EU-level nations and attained its membership in NATO in 2004. It knew, therefore, that it
had to conform to the rules of this group. The PAL program took advantage of the window of opportunity
this presented and successfully integrated the EU directives in its program. The EU requirements were
particularly crucial for reforms in PAL1 and PAL2, which included some core conditions pertinent to EU
accession. However, it is important to note that some PAL activities, such as modernization of state
administration, were not binding requirements for EU accession, but rather represented the GOB's own
reform initiative. The GOB was keenly aware that cooperation with the Bank and IMF was beneficial to
implementation of EU directives and to Bulgaria's credit standing in international financial markets.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The favorable macroeconomic climate in the country greatly facilitated reform. The internal political
environment during the initiation of the original PAL program was conducive for reform. Public
expectations for improved business climate were high with the new government some of whose young and
energetic leaders had business background and training in the west. Strong GOB ownership of the program
was another essential factor for successful implementation. However, the Bank's support for the GOB
reform agenda provided needed visibility and credibility.

Program coordination within the GOB was a critical success factor to program outcomes. The Council for
Economic Policy (formerly the Council for Structural Policy) under the COM has been effective in



                                                     - 26 -

managing the program and coordinating among different public sector institutions. The Directorate for EU
Integration and Relations with International Financial Institutions (IFIs) has performed the secretariat
function for the Council very effectively. To manage the expanded public sector governance pillar, the
COM established a Council for State Administration Modernization under PAL2. The public
administration reforms of PAL2 also helped improve policy and program coordination.

Finally, effective donor coordination, largely coordinated by the government, was critical to the effective
implementation of the program. The GOB strengthened donor coordination by transforming the Council for
Structural Policy to the Council for Economic Policy by making it a more inclusive inter-ministerial unit
and by codifying its lead role in donor coordination. The amendments also established sector working
groups under the oversight of the Deputy Prime Ministers. The Fund program was also an effective
complement to the PAL. The PAL program supported macroeconomic and financial stability through
reforms that rationalized expenditures and advanced structural and institutional reforms.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Program's financial resources were originally comprised of three one-tranche operations that were
disbursed as follows: US$150 million for PAL1, US$150 for PAL2, and US$150 million for PAL3. But a
floating second tranche condition of US$25 million was instituted during PAL2 in order to call for the
privatization of the Bulgatabac Company. These funds were used to assist in meeting the government's
budgetary needs. The second tranche of US$25 million in PAL2 was not disbursed as its release condition
of the privatization of Bulgartabac did not materialize.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the achievements is rated as likely in light of the positive outcomes to date, continued
GOB commitment to Bulgaria's successful integration into the EU, and an improved macroeconomic
environment. Reforms in such areas as the investment climate and public sector governance that were
needed for EU accession will be sustained.         EU membership will be a powerful force inhibiting
backtracking and will make the key reforms supporting functioning market economy irreversible. The
presence of CBA and Fund programs also boosts the likelihood of sustainability, as does the ongoing EU
support to capacity building through the PHARE and twinning arrangements.

There are no political or economic incentives to backtrack on the reforms achieved given that they have
enabled the country to achieve a functioning market economy and have benefited nearly all affected groups.
The reforms were in the direction the public in general and the business community in particular desired
and their participation increases the likelihood that reforms achieved under the PAL program will endure.
Furthermore, many PAL reforms are manifested in legislation or institutional change, and for this reason
would be difficult to reverse. For instance, institutional arrangements and structures setup to ensure the
successful implementation of PAL reforms such as the Council for Economic Policy, Council for State
Administration Modernization and Anti-corruption Coordination Commission, and several newly
established independent regulatory agencies and commissions are likely to stay as effective agents for
positive change in the country.

However, there is some risk to sustainability in few areas, particularly in privatization of state properties.
There is a possibility of reversal of some of the accomplishments after the elections. The new government
in place is less enthusiastic of some of the PAL reforms advanced by the previous government. It has


                                                    - 27 -

already discussed, but has not yet acted upon, a number of measures having the potential to roll back some
reforms, e.g., railroad restructuring, electricity prices, targeting of child benefits and other social sector
reforms.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since PAL3 and its predecessors were conceived as single-tranche adjustment policy operations, no
transitional arrangements were necessary, as the agreed reforms were implemented prior to approval.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the identification, design and appraisal of PAL3 is rated satisfactory. Bank staff
worked closely with the GOB in developing and implementing the program, reflecting the comprehensive
policy dialogue underlying the loan. The PAL3 team took stock of the accomplishments of the preceding
PALs and enriched the program where feasible. The program was designed with significant contributions
by country office staff, both in substance (by providing local knowledge) and coordination (both with the
government and HQ). A lot of analytic work and cross-sectoral efforts within the Bank went into
formulating the program (as discussed in Quality at Entry).

In instances where the EU came with requirements and directives without blueprints on how to achieve
them, the Bank's involvement proved essential in preparing the design and the roadmap for multi-sectoral
reforms and in providing the guidance and the capacity to coordinate various sectors. The Bank had a
disciplinary effect on the government, reminding and pushing it for reform. The Bank helped improve
content, focus and coordination of the program with other donors such as USAID, who also provided
technical assistance in parallel with the PAL agenda.

The main flaw in design was backloading of politically difficult reforms, thereby delaying them until an
unconducive pre-election period.        It became evident that government did not consider the
implementation of reforms in politically sensitive areas such as the labor market as worth the
considerable political capital that would be needed to be spent during an election year. The PAL
design was complex in its coverage, conditionality, level of detail and specificity. However, this
was in response to the GOB's demand for detailed roadmap and specific implementation
strategies. As Bulgaria has progressed immensely in its reform management capacity following
PAL implementation, future Bank engagement in the country should give the government more
flexibility in project design and implementation. The authorities also felt that the analytic work and
data provided by the Bank under the PHRD grant at times were not timely.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is considered satisfactory, with the Bank country office management playing a key role
in coordination and sustaining the dialogue with the client. Bank supervision was highly praised by GOB
officials, with expertise of sector specialists and overall level of management attention was repeatedly
lauded. GOB officials also praised the ability of Bank specialists to bring to bear "lessons of international
experience," e.g., in reforming business regulation, privatization, and social sector reform. The country
office played an important role in monitoring progress and was seen by authorities as key interlocutor and
as an efficient liaison with GOB and Washington.

Bulgarian authorities indicated that the Bank played a key catalytic role and as a "public stimulus" for
difficult reforms by applying "soft external pressure". In some cases, the Bank was used by the GOB as a



                                                     - 28 -

"scapegoat" for pushing for politically difficult reforms. Nearly all officials interviewed stated that Bank
assistance was timely, highly professional, and was a significant stimulus to progress. The Bank played
a mediation role between the administration and the parliament; it facilitated communication between the
government and the parliament through the Parliamentary Commission. The Bank role in donor
coordination, particularly with the IMF, was also positive and important.

The cross-sectoral task management arrangement was effective and worked well for the PAL series. It
gave more sectoral depth to the reform program than would have been the case with just one sectoral unit
taking the task management role throughout the entire program. It also allowed parallel work on the
different sectoral issues. However, there were issues of maintaining accountability and smooth handover
with the shifting task management arrangement. PAL mitigated this potential downside by keeping the task
manager of the original PAL as an integrator throughout the entire program. Finally, while strong
coordination has been evident across government ministries, internal coordination among Bank sectoral
units was at times a challenge due to institutional barriers within the Bank that hinder multi-sectoral
cooperation.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in project preparation is satisfactory. The Bulgarian authorities actively
participated in project preparation and basically owned the program from start to finish. Decisive
government support of the PAL program and its adherence to a firm and comprehensive multi-sectoral
reform agenda contributed to the smooth process of design and implementation. Council for Economic
Policy (represented by all ministries) played key coordination role with Deputy Prime Minister as its
chairman and the director of EU Integration and Relations with IFIs as its secretary. The Council was
innovative and very effective in communicating messages across line ministries.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower performance in the implementation of the overall program is considered satisfactory. The
government performance was outstanding on pillars 1 through 4, and in many aspects it exceeded Bank
expectations and could be considered a model for other countries. It has successfully managed complex
reform program that constituted a wide range of sectors and some very difficult reforms such as getting the
judges out of business registration and reforming the pension system. The major shortcoming in borrower
performance was the failure to sell Bugartabac.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Council for Economic Policy under the COM, the Council for State Administration Modernization
established under PAL2, and the Ministry of Finance were very effective counterparts to implement the
reforms under the PAL series. The support from the Directorate for European Integration and Relations
with International Financial Institutions and the Directorate for State Administration, both under the COM,
were well-organized and instrumental in moving the reforms forward.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Lesson 1. Task management by three different sectoral units was successful. PAL1 was managed by



                                                    - 29 -

PFSD, PAL2 by PREM, and PAL3 by HD. This arrangement was intended to motivate sectoral units and
maximize their participation and ownership of respective sectoral reforms, and overcome institutional
limitations within the Bank to a large, multi-sectoral programmatic operation.

Lesson 2. Ensuring broad-based country ownership of and commitment to the reform program is essential
for successful implementation. In such cases, the Bank's role in facilitating and enhancing the visibility
and credibility of the reform program is found to be of immense use.

Lesson 3. Successful implementation of programmatic operations with the breadth of PAL demands
adequate capacity from the borrower. Complex operations such as the PAL require sophisticated
counterparts, and without strong capacity in the client country, would be impossible to implement.

Lesson 4. The drive for EU accession is a powerful impetus for reform. The Bank's value added is to
help deepen and improve the quality of the reforms and design a roadmap by playing more of the role of
knowledge bank and bringing to bear its wealth of international development experience, rather than as the
original catalyst and sole financier. Reforms and actions that are not well aligned or in contradiction with
the EU accession requirements, on other hand, tend to be more difficult, particularly when political
capacity of the government is limited.

Lesson 5. The use of a broad and an umbrella programmatic adjustment program, despite its complexity,
can be an effective instrument to garner leverage to support implementation of difficult reforms. Such
comprehensive, highly-visible reform programs can bring together higher level government institutions and
command a high degree of commitment for their implementation and coordination across a wide range of
line ministries. .

Lesson 6. Having government manage donor coordination role can be very effective.

Lesson 7. Flexibility in reform program allows taking advantage of the "window of opportunity" in an
unfolding reform environment. The flexibility of the instrument allowed for replacing problematic
conditions with more pragmatic ones as both the opportunities and constraints to reform became more
evident during implementation. As there is typically more scope for bolder reform earlier rather than later
during the program, the temptation to backload difficult reforms in the programmatic operations should be
minimized, however. For instance, backloading Bulgaria's human development agenda within the PAL
program, the Bank and the Government postponed much needed reforms, the delay of which may cost
Bulgaria time in terms of its readiness for successful EU integration.

Lesson 8. Maintaining strong country presence is vital, in addition to making infrequent missions from
Washington, for keeping dialogue alive between Bank and the borrower.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following evaluation was received from the Council of Ministers (COM), the principal government
counterpart for PAL implementation.

Introduction

This Report aims to be an evaluation in brief of the overall PAL program. It assesses the overall program
objectives against Bulgaria's current development priorities. With regard to the analysis of design, the



                                                    - 30 -

Report first reviews the background and the overall PAL program based on the cumulative experience of
the Bulgarian Government and then addresses specific key topics of the implementation. The Overall
Assessment section first reviews the overall outcomes in the areas supported by the five PAL pillars, and
then tries to highlight the key accomplishments of the Government in the process of implementation. The
lessons learned reflect the organizational and administrative experience of the overall PAL program and as
a closing the Report underlines the sustainability of the achieved strategic goals.

Background

Following the economic and financial crisis of 1996-97, Bulgaria has achieved macroeconomic stability
and started a sound implementation of structural reforms. Macroeconomic stabilization has been
successfully maintained over the past years largely due to the Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) and a
tight fiscal stance. After a steep decline in 1996-97, output recovered and GDP growth averaged 4.7
percent in 2000-02, and 4.3 percent in 2003, with inflation contained to low levels. There have been major
structural changes in the economy, with private sector share of GDP dramatically soaring as a result of a
major push in privatization in 1998-99 and continuing efforts thereafter.

Building on the reforms of the previous years, the medium term program between 2002 and 2005 has aimed
to sustain economic growth and further reduce poverty while moving Bulgaria towards EU accession. The
country is generally meeting the program targets established in PAL-1: the achievement of average annual
growth rates of 4.5-5.0 percent during 2002-05, the reduction of the unemployment rate from 18.1 percent
in 2001 to 12-14 percent by end-2005, and the reduction of the poverty rate by 50 percent by end-2005
compared to the level at end-2001.

With the support of the PALs, GOB has made substantial progress towards meeting or exceeding the
objectives of the medium term structural reform program. The average annual growth rates during 2002-05
were maintained at 5.1 percent and the unemployment was reduced dramatically. Poverty is also falling and
living standards are gradually improving. Bulgaria has completed the European Union (EU) accession
negotiations and signed the accession treaty on April 25, 2005. The expectations are that Bulgaria will join
the Union in 2007, as planned.

The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria was discussed by the World Bank's Executive
Directors in June 2002 and covered the period FY03-FY05. The centerpiece of the CAS base case program
was the series of three Programmatic Adjustment Loans (PALs) totaling US$450 million equivalent,
designed to support Bulgaria's structural reform agenda and path to EU accession. The PALs supported
the Government's comprehensive program, organized around five complementary and mutually reinforcing
pillars, each of which was to contribute to achievement of the country goals:
         l (i) sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise sector, with emphasis on restructuring of the
             infrastructure sectors (energy, railways,    telecommunications and water);
         l (ii) establishing a market-friendly business environment by focusing on entry and exit policies,
             regulatory costs, delivery of public services, competition, and judicial reform;
         l (iii) deepening the financial system by addressing the constraints to increased lending by the
             banking system and the development of financial markets;
         l (iv) improving public sector governance by implementing the anti-corruption strategy,
             strengthening local governments, and reforming public administration and the judiciary; and
         l (v) investing in human capital and strengthening social protection by reforming the education,
             health, and pension systems and improving social assistance effectiveness.

A policy framework of triggers, Board conditions, and benchmarks organized around the five pillars was


                                                     - 31 -

presented in the context of the first PAL and remained in place throughout the PAL series. Within this
framework each PAL was to have its own strategic focus as well as continue support for policy measures
in areas supported under the previous PAL(s). PAL I would advance structural, regulatory and institutional
reform in the real sectors key to reforms, including energy. PAL II would focus on reform in areas taking
longer to prepare, such as public administration, the legal and judicial system, and anti-corruption
measures. And PAL III would focus on labor market and social sector policies, including long-term
sustainability of the social protection system and restructuring of the health and education sectors.

The design of the PAL program was complex and multi-sectoral. Across the three-year program there were
31 triggers, and the number of benchmarks went from 162 in the PAL I Program Document up to 244 in
the PAL II Program Document, and down slightly to 234 in the PAL III Program Document.

Overall Assessment

Complemented by several investment loans and a sector adjustment loan, the PAL program as a primary
vehicle for the Bank's supporting increased competitiveness and private sector-led growth was the cluster
of the first three pillars of the PAL program : Sustaining Structural Reform (Pillar 1), Establishing a
Market-Friendly Business Environment (Pillar 2), and Deepening the Financial System (Pillar 3).
Bulgaria's successful implementation of reforms in these areas supported by the PAL program contributed
to the expansion of the private sector to an estimated 75 percent of GDP in 2005 compared to 70 percent in
2002. As a result, EBRD upgraded Bulgaria's transition indicators for large-scale privatizations in 2004,
infrastructure and banking reform in 2004, and competition policy in 2005. This progress is also reflected
in Bulgaria's FDI inflows over the period, averaging US$1.6 billion a year between 2001 and 2004 (60
percent more than the PAL program 's target).

As already mentioned, the PAL Program is based on 5 pillars that represent the foundations of the
Program. These pillars are also the interrelation between the cross-cutting themes the PAL Program
focuses on. Most of the problems of each of the five pillars were addressed in more than one of the
individual PAL installments. Analyzing the achievements by pillar would give an overall picture of the
aggregate results of the 3 PALs.


Pillar I: Sustaining Structural Reforms

With PAL-3 the Government has nearly completed the reform agenda for Pillar I and have exceeded many
targets, especially in privatization. The Privatization program, focused on infrastructure State Owned
Enterprises (SOEs), was nearly completed. The envisioned plans to fundamentally overhaul the energy
sector through completing the tariff adjustment program were completed and the targets for private sector
entry in the energy and telecommunications sectors have been exceeded. Actions were undertaken to
improve the fiscal sustainability of railways.

Pillar II: Establishing a Market-friendly Business Environment

Considerable progress was made under the PAL program in improving the business environment, in
particular through deregulation and improvements in the efficiency of front line government services to
businesses ­ including customs offices and services for foreign investors. It is important to note that, under
PAL-3, the Government have taken significant steps to improve the conditions for the entry of new firms.

Pillar III: Deepening the Financial System



                                                    - 32 -

Bulgaria has achieved significant progress in restructuring the banking system, financial intermediation is
increasing, and financial markets are developing. About 98 percent of banking assets are in private
ownership, mainly by foreign financial institutions, as a result of an aggressive privatization program in
1999-2001 and the privatization of DSK Bank in 2003 under PAL 2. The Government has now fully
developed the institutional framework for the Banking sector, and moving forward, financial sector reforms
will focus mainly on non-bank institutions.

Pillar IV: Improving Public Sector Governance

Under PAL 3 begun the implementation of the broad program to improve public sector governance that
was developed in the earlier PALs. All newly recruited civil servants (at the national and regional levels)
were recruited through external competitive recruitment since 2004. Increased was also the competitiveness
of civil service pay and were implemented performance rewards throughout the civil service. In addition,
the accountability and transparency in the civil service were improved and under PAL 3 a code of ethics for
the civil servants was adopted.

Pillar V: Investing in Human Capital and Strengthening Social Protection

Under PAL 3 was completed the implementation of the Action plan for pension reform defined in PAL 1,
and the stability and robustness of the pension system have increased. It is important to note that steps were
taken towards continuity of reforms in health and education as well as in addressing social inclusion
through reforms in the area of disability and child protection.

The PAL Program is perceived as a complex instrument for strengthening the designing and
implementation of policies. At the same time its three individual parts are interrelated and still focus on a
different policy sector. The Program is so designed that each of its segments builds upon the
accomplishments of the previous. And if through the PAL Program pillars we are able to comprehend the
whole picture of a particular policy design and implementation, then scrutinizing the individual PALs gives
a better chance to detect and distinguish the specific successfully completed actions.

PAL 1

In each loan of the PAL series, the most important actions completed were either board conditions or
triggers for the next PALs:
   l Privatization of Biochim and DZI [PAL-1 Board Condition]
   l Privatization or liquidation of the large SOEs listed in Attachment C [PAL-2 Trigger]
   l Privatization or liquidation of the large SOEs listed in Attachment C [PAL-3 Trigger]
   l Privatization or liquidation of 80 percent of the remaining small SOEs as of September 30, 2002
         [PAL-3 Trigger]
   l Elimination of 40 and modification of 50 regulatory regimes based on program approved by the
         CoM on June 7, 2002 [PAL-2 Trigger]
   l Enactment of amendments to the Mandatory Social Insurance Code and the Voluntary Pension
         Code strengthening pension fund governance and SISA supervision capacity, introducing more
         flexibility to the investment regime while maintaining a prudent portfolio, and eliminating
         inconsistencies [PAL-2 Trigger]
   l Regulatory action establishing a legal framework favorable to a national system of alternative
         dispute resolution [PAL-2 Trigger]




                                                     - 33 -

PAL 2
 l Privatization of DSK, Shipyard Varna, twenty out of 35 small Hydro Power Plants. Bulgartabak
     privatization was a Second tranche condition that was not met.
 l Establishment of a National Revenue Agency
 l Approval of an updated medium term public administration reform strategy and action plan to
     secure merit and depoliticization; provide incentives for performance and service orientation; lead
     to optimization of government structures; and strengthen accountability and transparency in service
     delivery (PAL-2 Board condition)
 l Approval by the National Assembly of amendments to Civil Service Law and by CoM of related
     secondary legislation to take effect from 1 January 2004 to make open competition mandatory for
     all external recruitment to career civil servant positions; to provide for filling of vacancies to be
     filled through internal recruitment to be based on credible merit-based procedures; and to establish
     clear criteria for determining which posts are to be advertised on an internal and external basis, and
     which only on an internal basis (PAL-2 Board condition)
 l Government structure optimized and rationalized through completion of functional reviews for
     further ten pilot state administration structures (Ministries and regional administrations) [PAL-3
     Trigger]
 l First annual progress report on implementation of the government's Anticorruption Program
     approved by Council of Ministers and widely disseminated with partnerships established with
     business and investor associations and NGOs; Council of Ministers approves Anticorruption
     Program for period 2004 to 2005, including sectoral anticorruption strategies for education and
     health [PAL-2 Board Condition]
 l Program budgets for pilot ministries (Ministry of Education, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of
     Environment and Waters, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Ministry of Economy Ministry of
     Energy and Energy Recourses and Ministry of Youth and Sport) and including performance
     indicators and targets prepared and included in 2005 budget [PAL-3 trigger]
 l Adoption of a legal framework governing the accountability framework for judges (immunity,
     tenure, mandate) [PAL-2 Board Condition]

PAL3
 l Privatization of seven electricity distribution companies as well as privatization of the Bulgarian
     Telecommunications Company (BTC) [PAL-3 Board Condition]
 l Government optimization and rationalization under way through completion of 13 functional
     reviews and surveys, report identifying reorganization opportunities, reorganization action plans
     to implement functional review recommendations, and evidence of reorganization in pilot areas
 l Implementation of actions to promote equitable access to quality education for children from poor
     households and ethnic minorities, and adoption by the Council for Economic Policy of a National
     Program for the Modernization of Education, identifying changes needed to improve the quality,
     structure, management, and financing of the education system
 l Improve hospital management, productivity, and efficiency through (i) expansion of output based
     payment for inpatient care services to cover more than 50% of all hospital expenditures in 2005,
     providing incentives for the rationalization of services; and (ii) launch of restructuring in Ministry
     of Health and municipal hospitals and the development of a National Health Map to guide future
     restructuring
 l To ensure stability and robustness of pension system, enactment of amendments to the social
     insurance code setting out: (i) the benefits indexation formula, including maximum and minimum
     benefits; and      (ii) contribution rates including time-table of establishing a 50/50 split of
     employer/employee contributions and the timetable of increasing second pillar contributions




                                                 - 34 -

Lessons Learned

In the Lessons learned section we would like to highlight the excellent work of the coordination mechanism
that made the PAL Program possible and strived to guarantee a mutually agreeable final output, thus
securing positive results out of the operation.
In the first place we would like to thank the World Bank team in Sofia as well as in Washington and
Zagreb for the determination, hard work and commitment and for the understanding of the specific features
of the unique problems posed and solved in the process of realization of the PAL Program. We would like
also to acknowledge the huge amount of work they have done to simplify and accustom the adjustment
lending mechanism to the specific requirements of Bulgarian PAL Program.

On the other end of the coordination mechanism the Government of Bulgaria was represented at operational
decision-making level by the Council for Economic Policy. The CEP was created with Ordinance 58/2002
of the Council of Ministers and is authorized to:
   l Formulate priorities of country economic policy;
   l Coordinate the actions of line ministries and institutions in regard to the economic policy;
   l Set priorities in the implementation of the state policy on private and public investment;
   l Coordinate the actions of state institutions on privatization and post-privatization control;
   l Coordinate all work regarding donor operations and control the implementation of all projects with
         international financing;
   l Coordinate and control the implementation of all Government commitments to the World Bank and
         the International Monetary Fund as well as other IFIs.

The Council for Economic Policy reviewed and approved on regular basis the World Bank portfolio, incl.
the PAL Program. Each individual loan of the series has also been specifically assessed and approved in
order to provide basis for the necessary state guarantee. On a higher level of authority, the final decisions
for the PAL Program were taken by the Council of Ministers and ratified by the National Assembly.

The actual field coordination was responsibility of the "European Integration and IFIs" Directorate of the
Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, acting both as intermediary between the Government and
the Bank and between the line ministries and agencies of the Government itself. The "EIRIFI" Directorate
also acted as a secretary to the Council for Economic Policy and supported its sessions on administrative
and organizational level. The "EIRIFI" Directorate was responsible for monitoring and control on the
implementation of the decisions taken by the CEP, respectively for assessing the Ministries' progress in
fulfilling the obligations set in the Loan Agreements in the form of completing concrete actions marked as
Board conditions and triggers.

We believe that the coordination mechanism, based on both formal and informal contacts between the
parties and the hard work of the Bank and the Government was key in succeeding to align the Bank views
with the Government priorities in the PAL Agenda. It does credit to all institutions involved that the
necessary decisions were taken in due time and the respective actions were made along the lines of the
agreed steps. It is also worth recognition that the main field coordinators ­ WBSO and the "EIRIFI"
Directorate of the Council of Ministers showed great flexibility and swiftness of reaction to smooth the
process and iron out all possible problems even before they become a threat to the Program and be able to
hinder its satisfactory progress.

Finally, we would like to reiterate that after all necessary assessment and appraisal we believe that the
coordination mechanism of the PAL Program is of fundamental importance and constitutes an essential
factor for the success of the PAL Program.


                                                   - 35 -

Sustainability of Achieved Strategic Goals

The achievements of the PAL Program highlighted above are merely an excerpt and only few out of many
achieved with the help of the PAL Program. The fact is that really most of the accomplishments under the
series of loans show immense sustainability. The privatization of SOEs is an example of a sector that has
no way of going back compromising the achievements of the PAL Program. Also the legislative basis
formed under the PALs, though already most of it amended, has succeeded in creating a sound
administrative, economic and political framework that continues to be vital for the functioning of the
market economy and the civil society in Bulgaria. Thus the PAL Program not only helped the Government
in making difficult steps towards better management and EU membership, but it also created a policy
framework that will continue to be a basic building block of all new policy measures designed by the
Government in the EU environment.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

      Table A: Annual EU Assessments of Bulgaria's Progress towards Accession
 Year       General evaluation     Economic                   Political               Areas where
                                   requirements for           requirements for        enhanced efforts are
                                   membership                 membership              needed
 2005       ·Bulgaria has          ·Bulgaria continues to     Bulgaria continues to   ·Improvement in the
            reached a              be a functioning market    meet political          business climate.
            considerable level of  economy. The               requirements in         ·Improved function of
            alignment with the     continuation of current    compliance with EU      the justice system
            acquis in most policy  reform pace should         demands, with some      ·Further efforts to
            areas to become a      provide ability to cope    shortcomings (see       integrate the Roma
            member state in        with competitive EU        column 5)               minority
            2007. The Treaty of    market forces.                                     ·Capacity to absorb
            Accession was signed   ·Bulgaria has                                      European funds
            by the 25 Member       maintained high degree                             allocated to it
            States and Bulgaria    of macroeconomic                                   ·Ensure a high level of
            in April 2005          stability and growth,                              food safety
                                   relatively low inflation                           ·Pro-active fight
                                   and falling                                        against corruption and
                                   unemployment.                                      organized crime.
 2004       ·Bulgaria is a         ·Good improvements         ·Bulgaria has           ·Privatizations need to
            functioning market     made in sustaining         continued to fulfill    be completed.
            economy. The           macroeconomic              the political criteria, ·Reduce complexity
            continuation of its    stability and in           and has further         and improve efficiency
            current reform path    deepening structural       consolidated and        of the penal structures;
            should enable          reforms                    deepened the stability  need to increase
            Bulgaria to cope with  ·Bulgaria has increased    of its institutions     capacity to prosecute
            competitive pressure   its attractiveness for     guaranteeing            organized crime and
            and market forces      investment                 democracy, the rule     corruption
            within the Union.      ·Evidence of reduction     of law, human rights    ·Comprehensive
            ·Bulgaria has made     in unemployment,           and respect for and     legislation on
            good progress in       however there still are    protection of           anti-discrimination was



                                                       - 36 -

      adopting the acquis   some rigidities in the    minorities.              adopted but the
      and in building up    labor market              ·Bulgaria has            independent body
      the administrative                              achieved stability of    required by the law has
      capacity to                                     institutions             not yet been
      implement and                                   guaranteeing             established.
      enforce the acquis.                             democracy and the
                                                      rule of law, and
                                                      continued to fulfill
                                                      the political criteria.
2003  ·Bulgaria made        ·The Bulgarian            ·Progress in             ·efforts needed to
      significant progress  economy has achieved      fulfilling the political further implement the
      towards alignment     a high degree of          criteria was made        public administration
      with acquis, and      macroeconomic             with the adoption of     reform to have efficient
      continues to fulfill  stability due to a good   Strategy for             civil service
      the Copenhagen        policy-mix brought        Modernization of the     ·Efforts needed to
      political criteria.   about by the CBA, a       State Administration.    re-organize the
                            tight fiscal stance and   ·Amended the             investigative service
                            wage moderation.          Constitution             wing of the judiciary in
                                                      regarding the status     line with best practice
                                                      of Magistrates, and      in Member States.
                                                      strengthened judicial    ·Corruption remains a
                                                      control of decisions     problem
                                                      of the executive.        ·Flexibility in product
                                                                               and labor markets
                                                                               needs to be further
                                                                               enhanced.
2002  ·Bulgaria has met     ·Bulgaria has achieved    ·The political           ·Efforts are needed to
      the objectives set in a high degree of          situation has            improve the flexibility
      the Laeken European   macroeconomic             remained stable. The     of markets. In
      Council Conclusions   stability and market      country has pursued      particular, the
      to open all the       mechanisms are now        the policy of            efficiency of the
      negotiation chapters  working sufficiently to   integration with the     administrative and
                            allow for a better        European Union. The      judicial system to allow
                            allocation of resources.  broad political          economic agents to
                            ·Implementation of        support for EU and       make decisions in a
                            structural reforms key    NATO accession has       climate of stability and
                            for higher levels of      been further             predictability.
                            private and public        consolidated.            ·Administrative
                            investment which are      ·A strategy for          procedures affecting the
                            key requirements for      accelerating             enterprise sector,
                            sustained growth and      Bulgaria's               including bankruptcy
                            sufficient                negotiations for         procedures, must be
                            competitiveness within    accession to the EU      streamlined.
                            the Union.                was adopted in           ·The level of financial
                            ·Living conditions for    February 2002 by the     intermediation
                            the Roma remain           National Assembly.       continues to be low.
                            extremely poor.




                                               - 37 -

Table B. Key Accomplishments of PAL Operations by their Strategic Pillars*
               PAL1                                PAL2                 PAL3
PILLAR 1: SUSTAINING
STRUCTURAL REFORMS
 ·Enactment of a new Law on       ·Privatization or liquidation of the ·Completed the privatization
 Privatization and Post           large SOEs listed in Annex 6B of      objective, through the sale or
 Privatization Control            PAL2 program document                 liquidation of 80 percent of SOEs in
 ·Privatization of Biochim and    ·Enactment of energy legislation      which the government had majority
 DZI                              consistent with EU Electricity &      control in 2002 (30 percent sold in
 ·Enactment of amendments to      Gas Directives                        PAL3 alone), and nearly all minority
 the Energy and Energy            ·Satisfactory implementation of the packages (1,225 sold January 2004 to
 Efficiency Act (EEEA)            electricity tariff adjustment program February 28, 2005).
 ·Establishment of electricity    ·Adoption by the railway operating ·Completed the existing program of
 distribution, generation and     company of a long term                the restructuring of the energy sector
 transmission companies as        development strategy and              to increase competition and private
 separate legal entities          formulation by the infrastructure     sector entry, through: (1) increase in
 ·Implementation of an average    company of a long term business       electricity tariffs bringing cumulative
 price increase of 20 percent for plan, including termination of 199    increases to 52 percent; (2) An
 household electricity prices in  km of loss-making railway services increase in district heating tariffs,
 the second half of 2002 and      ·Reduction of railway labor force     bringing cumulative increases to 33
 approval of an indicative        by around 10 percent compared to percent
 timetable for future price       the level at end of 2001              ·Completed the privatization of the
 increases towards their          ·Enactment of New                     electricity distribution sector, with the
 adjustment to cost-recovery      Telecommunications Law                sale of all seven companies
 levels                           ·Adoption and satisfactory            ·Sale of seven (compared to the target
 ·Satisfactory implementation of  implementation of CRC institutional of five) district heating companies
 the district heating (DH)        development plan, including its       ·Signing of the first annual PSC
 component of the Energy          financial independence                between the government and the
 Strategy approved by the COM     ·COM approval of a Water Sector       railway operating company to provide
 on May 11, 2002                  Strategy                              financial discipline and incentives for
 ·Creation of new railway         ·Satisfactory implementation of       increased efficiency
 operating company as a joint     environmental policies on SOEs to     ·Adoption and implementation of a
 stock company with autonomous    be privatized and development and     government decision to terminate
 decision making as well as new   issuance of regulation on             railway services on approximately 250
 railway infrastructure company   Environmental Impact Assessment       km of lines, and termination of nearly
 as an independent public agency  ·Development of a system of           120 passenger services.
 ·Implementation of Chapter 19    issuance and control of Integrated    ·Completed privatization in the
 (telecommunications) EU          Pollution and Control Permits         telecommunications sector, through
 accession commitments            (IPPC)                                the privatization of BTC
 ·Establishment of an                                                   ·COM approval and submission to
 independent, transparent, and                                          National Assembly of Water
 accountable regulator for the                                          Regulatory Law to provide
 telecommunications sector ­ the                                        appropriate regulatory framework for
 Communications Regulation                                              the water sector
 Commission (CRC)
 ·Issuance and implementation
 of a privatization strategy for
 BTC that ensures no extension



                                                      - 38 -

of BTC exclusivities
·Submission to Parliament of
draft New Telecommunications
Law
·Submission of amendments to
the Water Law supporting the
restructuring of the Regional
Water Companies
·Enactment of a new
Environment Protection Act
·Enactment of Biodiversity Law
PILLAR 2: ESTABLISHING A
MARKET-FRIENDLY
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
·Submission to Parliament of        ·Enactment of the Law on              ·Streamlining of centrally managed
draft Law on Administrative         Administrative Regulation and         regimes and regulations to reduce
Regulation and Administrative       Administrative Control on Economic transactions costs to the private sector
Control on Economic Activities      Activities                            ·Enactment of legislation for a single
·COM approval of a program for ·Elimination of 40 and                     stop shop for business registration
eliminating and restructuring       modification of 50 regulatory         ·Enactment of legislation and rules
regulatory regimes                  regimes based on program              instituting one-stop shop for support
·Development by a working           approved by the COM on June 7,        of new FDI and local administrations
group of a plan for the             2002                                  to improve service access
integration of the Bulstat, tax,    ·Establishment of a comprehensive
and social security registration of public registry of regulatory regimes
companies                           ·Drafting of the Law on the Bulstat
·Completion of a baseline           Register, regulating the uniform
Administrative and Regulatory      registration for the purposes of the
Cost Survey (ARCS).                National Statistical Institute, the Tax
·Establishment of a Tax Council Administration, and the National
to include representatives from    Social Security Institute
the private sector                 ·Introduction of measures for
·Enactment of the Law on State     simplification of administrative
Aid harmonized with EU             procedures for regulatory regimes in
directives                         the construction, tourism and food
·Submission to Parliament of       processing sectors
amendments to the Law on the       ·Establishment of a National
Protection of Competition to       Revenue Agency
strengthen the enforcement         ·Adoption by the COM of
powers of the Commission for       Regulations for Implementation of
the Protection of Competition      the Law on State Aid
·Initiation of actions             ·Enactment of Anti-discrimination
implementing the Social Policy     Law
Strategy and Strategic Note on     ·Elimination of regulatory and
Labor Market Reform adopted by bureaucratic barriers to private
the COM                            provision of employment services
·Submission to Parliament of       through amendment to Employment
proposed amendments to Part        Promotion Act
IV (insolvency) of the             ·Enactment of amendments to Part
Commercial Code                    IV of the Commercial Code to
                                   accelerate resolution of insolvency
                                   cases
                                   ·Implementation of a program for



                                                       - 39 -

                                  overhauling the Civil Procedure
                                  Code
PILLAR 3: DEEPENING THE
FINANCIAL SYSTEM
·Enactment of amendments to       ·Enactment of amendments to the       (No actions under PAL3. All reforms
the foreclosure provisions of the Law on Registered Pledges             envisioned for Pillar 3 were
Civil Procedure Code              ·Implementation of international      completed under previous PALs)
·Enactment of an Accountancy      standards in accounting and auditing
Act and an Independent            ·Enactment of the Law on Measures
Financial Audit Act to adopt      Against Terrorist Financing
international standards in        ·Enactment of amendments to the
accounting and auditing           Law on Measures Against Money
·Submission to Parliament of a    Laundering
draft Law on Measures Against     ·Establishment of mechanism for
Terrorist Financing and draft     consultation of the BNB and other
amendments to the Law on          financial regulatory agencies with
Measures Against Money            regard to drafts of laws and
Laundering                        regulations relevant to the financial
·Enactment of Bank Bankruptcy     sector
Law                               ·Enactment of the Social Security
·Enactment of amendments to       Code consolidating the Mandatory
the Banking Law providing         Social Insurance Code and the
broader powers to the BNB to      Voluntary Supplementary Pensions
investigate and identify direct   Insurance Act and strengthening of
and indirect ownership of banks   the governance of the private
·Adoption of an institutional     pension funds and the supervision
development plan for the State    capacity of the Financial
Insurance Supervisory Agency      Supervision Commission (FSC) and
(SISA) and Insurance              introduction of a general
Supervisory Agency (ISA)          prohibition of related party
·Enactment of the Mortgage        activities
Bond Law to enable issuance of    ·Unification of supervision of
mortgage backed securities        non-bank financial institutions
·Enactment of amendments to       (NBFIs)
the Law on Public Offering of     ·Enactment of amendments to the
Securities to strengthen minority Commercial Code to strengthen
shareholder rights protection     corporate governance provisions
·Enactment of amendments to       ·Enactment of Law on Financial
the Insurance Act to harmonize    Supervision Commission
with EU directives and
strengthen ISA
·Elimination of monopolies in
certain segments of the
insurance market
PILLAR 4: PUBLIC SECTOR
REFORM
 Approval of Strategy for State     ·Approval by the COM of an         ·Continued satisfactory progress in
Administration ­ from               updated medium term public         implementing the State
Accession to Integration            administration reform strategy     administration modernization
·Approval of a national training    and action plan to secure merit    program based on the agreed
strategy approved by CoM            and depoliticization; lead to      performance benchmarks and
·Development of monitoring          optimization of government         assessment of the agreed
indicators to track public          structures; and strengthen         performance indicators



                                                    - 40 -

administration outcomes            accountability and transparency     ·Implementation of the
·Development of an                 in service delivery                 anti-corruption action plan
anti-corruption strategy and       ·Approval by National Assembly ·Adoption of a code of ethics for the
action plan agreed with the        of amendments to Civil Service      civil service
Bank [PAL-1 Condition]             Law and by COM of related           ·Implemention of freedom of
·Establishment of the              secondary legislation               information legislation, particularly
Inter-ministerial Committee for    ·Development of amendments to       the Protection of Classified
Implementing the                   Law on State Administration         Information Act
Anti-corruption Strategy and       agreed with the Bank to provide     ·Adoption of a Mediation Law to
Action Plan                        for clear specification of the role promote alternative dispute resolution
·Approval by COM of a              and function of political cabinets  mechanism for commercial disputes
program and action plan for        of ministers                        ·Submission to the National Assembly
judicial reform including a        ·Development and approval of        of a new Administrative Procedural
National Anti-Corruption           relative pay position for civil     Code to establish specialized
Component for the Judiciary        service as compared to private      administrative courts (in addition to
·Submission to Parliament of       sector and for internal pay         the Supreme Administrative Court).
amendments to the Judicial Act     decompression, with particular      ·Completion and publication of the
incorporating adoption of          emphasis on areas of recruitment    second annual report on functioning
uniform criteria for the selection and retention difficulty            of public administration
of magistrates and the evaluation  ·Completion of functional           ·Roll-out of "one stop shops" based on
of their performance               reviews of three pilot central stateoutcomes of pilot exercises
                                   administration structures           ·Completion of functional reviews of
                                   (Ministries/agencies) to align      agreed number of ministries/agencies
                                   Ministry/agency structures and      ·Implementation of survey to assess
                                   staffing with those required to      effectiveness and public perception of
                                   deliver key government work          judicial system
                                   program priorities and to meet
                                   requirements of EU accession
                                   ·First annual progress report on
                                   implementation of the
                                   government's Anticorruption
                                   Program approved by COM ;
                                   COM approval of Anticorruption
                                   Program for period 2004 to
                                   2005, including sectoral
                                   anticorruption strategies for
                                   education and health and linked
                                   to anticorruption program for
                                   judiciary approved by Supreme
                                   Judicial Council (SJC)
                                   ·Medium-term capital investment
                                   targets and prioritized program
                                   for EU pre-accession funds
                                   agreed and incorporated in 2004
                                   budget
                                   ·Internal audit teams delegated to
                                   all line ministries, 109
                                   municipalities, the National
                                   Social Security Institute and the
                                   National Health Insurance Fund
                                   and Executive Agencies
                                   ·Government reached agreement
                                   with National Association of
                                   Municipalities to liquidate



                                                    - 41 -

                                   outstanding arrears
                                   ·Adoption of a legal framework
                                   governing the accountability
                                   framework for judges
                                   (immunity, tenure, mandate)
                                   ·Establishment of a specialized
                                   commercial college at Supreme
                                   Court of Cassation and of
                                   specialized commercial sections
                                   at remaining courts of law (with
                                   heaviest commercial case load)
                                   ·Continued satisfactory progress
                                   in implementing the State
                                   administration modernization
                                   program based on the agreed
                                   performance benchmarks and
                                   assessment of the agreed
                                   performance indicators
                                   ·Implementation of the
                                   anti-corruption action plan
                                   ·Adoption of a code of ethics for
                                   the civil service
                                   ·Implemention of freedom of
                                   information legislation,
                                   particularly the Protection of
                                   Classified Information Act
                                   ·Adoption of a Mediation Law to
                                   promote alternative dispute
                                   resolution mechanism for
                                   commercial disputes
                                   ·Submission to the National
                                   Assembly of a new
                                   Administrative Procedural Code
                                   to establish specialized
                                   administrative courts (in addition
                                   to the Supreme Administrative
                                   Court).
                                   ·Completion and publication of
                                   the second annual report on
                                   functioning of public
                                   administration
                                   ·Roll-out of "one stop shops"
                                   based on outcomes of pilot
                                   exercises
                                   ·Completion of functional
                                   reviews of agreed number of
                                   ministries/agencies
PILLAR 5: INVESTING IN
HUMAN CAPITAL AND
STRENGTHENING SOCIAL
PROTECTION
·Preparation of a plan for phased ·Submission to Council for         ·Satisfactory progress in
staff reduction and other         Economic Policy of concept for      implementation of the action plan to



                                                    - 42 -

 efficiency measures in the        education reform strategy and        improve and strengthen the pension
 education system agreed with the initial action plan designed to       reform program
 Bank                              improve quality of learning and      ·Implementation of plan agreed with
 ·Introduction of the second       teaching while strengthening equity the Bank to improve coverage and
 pillar of the pension reform with ·Approval by COM of an Action        increase efficiency of social
 a two percent contribution rate   Plan for Protection Against          assistance programs
 ·Adoption of regulations to       Discrimination Against Minorities    ·Adoption of an updated strategy and
 transfer contributions to private in the education system              preparation of action plan to enable
 pension funds in a prompt and     ·Approval by COM of Plan for         the integration of children from ethnic
 transparent manner                Integration of Children with Special minorities into education
 ·Initiation of implementation of  Educational Needs into mainstream ·Enactment of an ordinance
 an action plan to improve and     school system and for securing       establishing a fund to support the
 strengthen the pension reform     reduction in the number of children educational integration of ethnic
 program                           in Ministry of Education and         minorities
 ·Introduction of targeting of     Science managed institutions         ·Adoption by the National Assembly
 child allowances                  ·Design and implementation of a      of a program to increase coverage and
 ·Adoption of an adjusted          mechanism for funding national       reduce the drop-out of children in
 energy subsidy program in view    health programs (e.g., Tobacco       primary schools in 2005-06 school
 of announced tariff increases     control, Immunization, HIV/AIDS,     year
 ·Approval by COM of               Tuberculosis)                        ·Enactment of legislation to increase
 amendments to the Social          ·Submission to National Assembly     tobacco control and regulate
 Assistance Act opening social     of Law on Tobacco and Tobacco        consumption in public places.
 services provision for private andProducts together with proposals for ·Expansion of output-based financing
 NGO providers                     completion of the harmonization of mechanisms for inpatient care (to
                                   the tobacco control legislation and  cover more than 50 percent of all
                                   regulations with the relevant EU     hospital payments in 2005), providing
                                   Directives                           incentives for the rationalization of
                                   ·Approval by CoM of a Strategy for services
                                   Equal Opportunity for the Disabled ·Enactment of legal amendments
                                   and a consolidated draft Act on      disallowing new claims of disability
                                   Integration of People with           pensions by people over retirement
                                   Disabilities                         age
                                   ·Enactment of a consolidated Social ·Enactment of legislation to
                                   Insurance Code to create a           strengthening the role of the National
                                   conducive framework for the further Social Security Institute in the
                                   development of the multi-pillar      disability assessment process and
                                   pension system                       providing for reprimanding of doctors
                                   ·Implementation of measures          for abuse/fraud in the medical
                                   improve coverage and efficiency of assessment of disability
                                   social assistance programs
                                   (including Guaranteed Minimum
                                   Income, energy benefits and child
                                   allowance)
                                   ·Enactment of the
                                   Anti-Discrimination Act
                                   ·Approval by COM of plan for
                                   reducing the number of children in
                                   specialized institutions


* Triggers and Board conditions are highlighted in bold italics




                                                     - 43 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome Indicators for the Overall PAL Program

            Goal               Desired Outcomes under PAL Series                       Performance
Overall PAL Program
Sustaining economic growth      Average annual GDP growth rates of Surpassed desired outcome: Estimated
                                4.5-5.0% during 2002-2005               average annual GDP growth rate of 5.2%
                                                                        during 2002-2005
Reducing poverty                Reduction of the poverty rate by 50% No 2005 data but desired outcome
                                by 2005 compared to 2001                likely met:
                                                                        Poverty rate would decline to 6.4 in 2005
                                                                        from 12.8 in 2001 if growth elasticity of
                                                                        poverty were 1.5, which is very modest
                                                                        compared to SEE average of 2.5 during
                                                                        1998-2003.
Creating employment             Reduction of the unemployment rate      Surpassed desired outcome: According
                                to 12-14% in 2005 compared to           to the Employment Agency data average
                                17.5% in 2001                           unemployment rate declined to 9.2 % in
                                                                        the third quarter of 2005 and averaged
                                                                        10.2% for the first three quarters of 2005.

Pillar 1: Sustaining
Structural Reforms
Rationalized role of the State  By end-2005, the only remaining          Privatization program near completion.
by privatizing activities that  SOEs would be those listed in Annex
can be performed by the         6A of PAL III Program Document          Private sector share GDP in 2002:
private sector                                                          64.3%; 2003: 64.5%, 2004: 66.3% and
                                                                        first three quarters of 2005: 68.9%;
                                                                        Private sector share GVA in 2002: 73%;
                                                                        2003: 73.7%, 2004: 76.5% and first three
                                                                        quarters of 2005: 79.5%;

                                                                        Process is under way for most of the few
                                                                        remaining large deals; As of February
                                                                        2005 there are only 90 unsold enterprises
                                                                        - (majority packages) compared to total
                                                                        number of the enterprises already
                                                                        privatized of 2883; 1225 minority
                                                                        packages sold between January 1 2004
                                                                        and February 28, 2005.
Improvement in efficiency of    In 2005, energy intensity of GDP         Energy intensity of GDP fell by 9%
energy services and             would reduce by 15% compared to          between 2001 and 2003; forecasted
preparation of energy sector    the level in 2001                        decline in 2004 is 11%.
for EU accession                                                         (in tons of oil equivalent per thousand
                                                                         1995 US$).
Improvement in efficiency of    By end-2005, decrease in operating       Operating subsidies have fallen from
the railway sector resulting in subsidies (excluding funds for           0.5% of GDP in 2000 to 0.2% of GDP
a decrease in railway subsidies investment) from 0.5% of GDP in          in 2004
                                2000 to 0.2% of GDP
                               Reduce railway labor force by 20% by 2004About 13% reduction in railway labor
                                                                        force achieved by 2005



                                                        - 44 -

                             By end-2005, increase in overall       Overall railway labor productivity
                             railway labor productivity by 16%      increased by 12% by end-2004 compared
                             compared to the level at end-2001      to 2001

                             By end-2005, achievement of financial  Working ratios as of end 2004:
                             working ratios of: 95% by the railway           Freight services ­ 101%;
                             freight services; 100% by the railway            Passenger services -99%;
                             infrastructure company (without any              Railway operating company ­
                             government subsidies); and 100% by     100%
                             the railway passenger services
                             (including full payment by the
                             government for public service          Debt Service Coverage Ratio for freight
                             contracts)                             services as of end-2004: 2.9 times
                             By end-2005, achievement by the
                             railway freight operating company of a
                             debt service ratio of 1.5 times
Liberalization of the        By end 2005, the degree of             In October 2004, degree of digitalization
telecommunications market    digitalization of:                     of :

                             Transfer network: 100%                 Transfer network: 94%
                             Transit exchanges: 82%                 Exchanges:
                             Fixed telephone network subscribers:   International: 100%
                             46%                                    Transit: 79%

                                                                    Fixed network subscribers 32.74%

                                                                    In 2004, 94 % of households had access
                             % of households with                   to telecommunications services allowing
                             telecommunications services allowing internet access
                             internet access: 94%
                                                                    In end-2004, telephone connection
                                                                    waiting time for new applications is about
                             Telephone connection waiting time will 65 days
                             not exceed one month.
Modernization of the water    By end-2005, reduction of the          In 2004, operating ratio of water
sector                        operating ratios (operating costs      companies is 88%, reflecting improved
                              including depreciation to total        efficiency since 2002 when they were
                              revenues) of water companies to 86%    90% (107 % in 1996)
Mitigation of environmental   By end-2005, issuance of 225          20 integrated environmental permits had
risks                         integrated environmental permits      been issued by end-2005, applications for
                              under the IPPC directive              issuing 90 have been submitted

                             By end-2007, issuance of permits to all
                             enterprises covered by the IPPC
                             directive
Pillar 2: Establishing a
Market-Friendly Business
Environment
Reduced entry constraints and During 2002-05, FDI inflows of         Average FDI inflows of about US$1.7
regulatory costs              US$1.0 billion per year                billion a year between 2001-04;
                                                                     estimated at US$2.8 billion in 2004
                                                                     and US$ 2.3 billion in 2005.




                                                      - 45 -

                              By 2005, increase in share of SMEs in SME share in employment is increasing
                              valued added and employment to at       continuously:
                              least 50%                               2000: 50.6%
                                                                      2001: 51.6%
                                                                      2002: 53.8%
                                                                      2003: 56.7%

                              During 2002-05, total factor            SME share in value added is increasing
                              productivity increase of 2.5% annually continuously:
                                                                      2000: 29.5%
                                                                      2001: 31.2%
                                                                      2002: 34.2%
                                                                      2003: 36.2%
                              By 2005, private sector share of GDP at
                              least 70 %                              Private sector share of GDP has increased
                                                                      from 64.3% in 2001 to 68.9% in first
                                                                      three quarters of 2005
                              By end-2005, elimination or
                              modification of at least 50% of         By March 2005, approximately 44% of
                              regulatory regimes (issued by central   regulatory regimes (issued by central
                              administration) existing at mid-2002    administrations) existing at mid-2002,
                                                                      have been eliminated or modified.
                              By end-2006, considerable decrease in
                              the number of procedures and time       Ease of doing business in 2005(Starting a
                              required for business registration from business):
                              the present 11 procedures and 32 days Procedure (number): 11, Number of days
                              to 6 procedures and 10 days.            to start buiness: 32Cost (% of income per
                                                                      capita) 9.6; and Minimum capital (% of
                                                                      income per capita): 104.2 (source: Doing
                              By end-2006, reduced time in resolving Business 2006).
                              commercial disputes from 440 days in
                              January 2004, resulting from the
                              freeing of judges time from business
                              registration routines

                              By 2005, significant reduction of
                              regulatory compliance costs as
                              measured by management time spent on
                              regulatory compliance in the annual     Management time spent on regulatory
                              ARCS (from 25% in 2002)                 compliance remained at 25% in 2003
Improved business service      Customs revenue increased by 55%        Customs revenue increased by 66% in
delivery by government offices by 2005 in comparison with 2001         2004 compared to 2001 (by 47% in
                                                                       real terms)
                              Reduction of processing time at all
                              participating border crossing points by By 2004, processing time for imports in
                              20% in 2005                             the 3 pilot sites was reduced by between
                                                                      26-38% compared to 2001 and for
                                                                      exports by between 2.5-56% (the lower
                                                                      values of 26% and 2.5% are reported for
                                                                      2003 for Gueshevo which is undergoing
                                                                      construction since 2004).
Ensure competition and        By end-2005, BEEPS survey evidence Bulgaria closed EU chapter on
functioning markets           of increased competitiveness in private competition in mid-June 2004



                                                       - 46 -

                               sector compared to position in 2002

                               State reserves to act in a transparent  Amendments to the State Reserves Act
                               manner and in the long run to stop      and Grain Storage and Trade Act are
                               interventions in the grain market, with submitted to Parliament
                               eventual interventions to be carried out
                               only in connection with EU accession
                               requirements through an EU style
                               intervention agency
Promotion of flexibility in the By end-2005, reduction in:             Surpassed desired outcome: According
labor market                   Unemployment                            to the Employment Agency data average
                                                                       unemployment rate declined to 9.2 % in
                                                                       the third quarter of 2005 and averaged
                                                                       10.2% for the first three quarters of 2005
                               Share of long-term unemployed
                                                                       Share of long term unemployment
                                                                       reduced from 63.7% in 2001 to 59.3% in
                               Youth unemployment rate                 2004 against 43.4 in EU-15 in 2003

                                                                       Youth unemployment rate reduced from
                               By end-2005, increase in employment 38.4% in June 2001 to 25.8% in 2004,
                               rate (based on labor force surveys)     against 14.7% in EU-15 in 2003

                                                                       Employment rate (LFS) increased from
                                                                       50.9% in September 2001 to 56.6% in
                                                                       January 2005 against 64.8 in EU-15 in
                                                                       2003. Target for end-2006 set at 58%.
Improved efficiency of the      By end-2005, demonstrated reduction     The average time period to reach
insolvency regime               in average time period to reach         resolution of insolvency cases reduced
                                resolution of insolvency cases from     to 3.3 years in 2004
                                3.8 years in 2003 towards levels in
                                other advanced transition economies
Pillar 3: Deepening the
Financial System
Improved legal framework for By end-2005:
lending
                               Increase in financial intermediation to
                               support private sector investment, while
                               maintaining capital adequacy and
                               liquidity standards;
                                                                       M2 to GDP increased to 47.7% of GDP
                               Increase in M2 to GDP from 42% in       in 2003, and to 53.4% of GDP in 2004
                               end-2001 and 43% in 2002
                                                                       Real credit to private sector increased
                               Increase in private sector loans to GDP annually by close to 40% in 2003 and
                               from 15% at end-2001                    43% in 2004

                                                                       Credit to private sector increased from
                                                                       20% of GDP in 2002, to 27% of GDP in
                                                                       2003, and 37% of GDP in 2004
                               Ensure that the quality of banks'
                               portfolios is preserved in the face of
                               rapid credit expansion.



                                                        - 47 -

Completion of banking reform By end-2003, private sector share of     Private sector share of banking assets at
                               banking assets reaches about 98%       close to 98% by end-2004
Development of financial       By end-2004, the value of the           By end-2003, combined pension fund
markets and improved           combined pension fund portfolio         portfolio reached 1.5% of GDP; by end
supervision coordination;      approximates 2% of GDP                  2004, combined pension fund portfolio
improved sustainability,                                               reached 2 % of GDP.
regulation, and governance of
private pension funds         By end-2005, improved custodianship      Improved custody services for pension
                              rules effective                          funds (single custodian) in place.
Pillar 4: Improving Public
Sector Governance
Strengthening public
administration capacity
through:
Strengthening public          By end-2006, evidence of improved        Extra 84 civil servants in Political
administration reform         capacity in COM to develop and           Cabinet of Minister responsible for
program management            manage public administration and civil Public Administration and Civil
capacity                      service policy and reform                Service and in regional
                                                                       administrations; COM capacity
                                                                       enhanced through training.
                              By end-2006, evidence of progress with
                              public administration and civil service  Key policy frameworks developed for
                              reforms, through development of key      functional reviews and depoliticization
                              policy frameworks, legislation and       and merit. Strategy for Modernizing
                              implementation frameworks ­              State Administration developed and
                              especially related to depoliticization   being implemented.
                                                                       Merit based recruitment and
                                                                       remuneration being implemented since
                                                                       2004 with 100% of civil service
                                                                       affected by merit-based policies in
                                                                       some way
Strengthening merit and        By end-2006, all recruitment            100% of new recruitment exercises for
depoliticization               exercises (central government,          civil servants in 2004 were conducted
                               regional administrations, local         through external recruitment processes,
                               governments) filled through             in accordance with new requirements,
                               competitive/performance-based           compared with 10% of such exercises
                               recruitment or advancement (merit)      in the previous year.
Increasing competitiveness of By end-2006, evidence of:
civil service pay compared to (i) increases in public sector pay for  (i) In July 2004 pay increases across
private sector                benchmark grades compared to private Government averaged 8.5%; exceeding
                              sector pay for equivalent positions     inflation and private sector
                                                                      average--narrowing gap between public
                              (ii) increase in decompression ratio    and private sector.
                              (Junior Expert to Secretary General)    (ii) 2004 pay increase averages exceeding
                              (Annual) (pay reform)                   10% for higher echelons of civil service
Rationalizing government       By end-2006, evidence of                Government adjustments initiated
structures                     adjustments in government               through extended functional reviews in
                               structures, functions, staffing levels  7 ministries and 6 regional
                               and skills appropriate for effective    administrations, with implementation
                               delivery of priority government work    action plans for change; survey reviews
                               program objectives and requirements     in all other central administrative
                               of EU integration                       structures
Improving service delivery     By end-2006, evidence of increased     Client Charters of various national and 3



                                                       - 48 -

                              number of e-services delivered to      sub-national administrations posted on
                              citizens and businesses and in the     Internet portal of State Administration.
                              associated volumes of
                              services/transactions
                              completed/number of hits on key
                              government service websites.

                              By end-2006, evidence of increase on
                              perceptions of civil servants as to    Various service areas (notary publics,
                              degree of performance orientation in   construction supervisors, local water and
                              civil service.                         garbage collection) subject to competitive
                                                                     processes, with over another 60
                              By end-2007, evidence of significant   administrative services to be subject to
                              increase in the extent to which        competitive processes before January
                              administrative services subject to     2007.
                              formal competitive processes; and of
                              outsourcing of services and analysis
                              of savings generated
Increasing accountability and By end-2006, levels of state capture    Anticorruption public councils created
transparency                  and administrative corruption           in 21 (out of 28) regional
                              reduced compared to 2001; and           administrations
                              public administration displaying a
                              stronger external accountability and    213% increase in applications to
                              transparency and providing for          government bodies for access to public
                              wide-ranging participation in           information in 2003 compared to 2002
                              formation of "rules of the game",       (39% increase from 2001 to 2002)
                              demonstrated through:                   from 21.649 to 67.712 requests. 315 of
                                                                      these requests turned down in 2003
                                                                      with 38 appeals against refusals

                             NGO surveys show decline in number       Many ministries have declassified
                             of transactions involving corruption;    documents to be available to public
                             decline in perceptions of corruption in  under freedom of information
                             key areas such as tax, customs and       regulations: MoF, MoE,
                             judiciary; BEEPS III (2005) shows        MoFA/MoEUI, MLSP, MoEER,
                             decline in perceptions of state capture  MRDPW, MoA, MoH, MoES, MoC,
                             and of administrative corruption         MoJ, and MoD (champion with 52,298
                             compared to BEEPS II (2002).             declassified documents).
                             Repeat Public Officials Survey (2004)
                             shows decline in perceived instances of
                             administrative corruption compared to
                             baseline survey (2001) (reducing
                             corruption)

                             Increase in number of requests by
                             public for official information;
                             monitoring of % provided; % refused;
                             number of appeals when refused; % of
                             appeals successful, % unsuccessful
                             (partly to be based on feedback and
                             analyses to be provided by NGOs)
                             (transparency)




                                                      - 49 -

                               100% compliance by public officials
                               with asset and earnings declaration and
                               disclosure requirements
Strengthening public
expenditure management
through:
Increasing allocative           By 2007, evidence of improved            7 out of 17 FLSUs have program
efficiency and transparency in performance focus in entire budget,       budget documents in appendix to 2005
budget formulation              through program orientation across       budget; one audit of program budget
                                government and publication of all        sent to Parliament; MOF report on
                                first level spending unit goals and      budget includes (for first time) list of
                                objectives in budget; and                all FLSU goals and objectives.
                                accountability for results as reflected
                                in active audits of programs
                                                                        2005 budget based on three year fiscal
                                By 2006 (for 2007 budget                framework.
                                preparation cycle), public
                                expenditure management system
                                based on medium-term MTFF
                                                                        Capital expenditures declined to 3.8% of
                                By 2006, evidence of improved focus GDP in 2002 compared to 4.9% in 1999;
                                on investment expenditures and          however since 2003 there has been a
                                investment expenditure management, trend of continuous increase of these
                                evidenced through improved              expenditures both in nominal terms and
                                allocations to investment and           as a percent of GDP (to 3.9% in 2003,
                                maintenance items and more active       4.2% in 2004 and a preliminary estimate
                                management of these items.              of 5.7% of GDP in 2005).
Strengthening procurement       By end-2005, evidence of more            New procurement framework
and financial accountability    robust procurement system including:     introduced
mechanisms                      (i) functional arbitration court for
                                public procurement; (ii) fully
                                functional and complete Public
                                Procurement Register.
                                                                        Public Internal Financial Control Agency
                                By end-2005, evidence that PIFCA        (PIFCA) had as at September 2004,
                                reports leading to appropriate action   covered all central and local entities with
                                by Ministry of Finance (remedial,       either delegated audit teams or other
                                system and process improvements)        internal audit arrangements
Strengthening system of         Increased predictability and             2005 budget provides for all centrally
intergovernmental finance       transparency in allocation of            mandated local government
and municipal service delivery Government transfers to                   expenditures to be fully
                                municipalities                           funded--according to legislated
                                                                         approach
Increasing the accountability, By end-2005, increase in accountability, Strategic and policy framework for
efficiency, and effectiveness  efficiency and effectiveness of judicial  judicial reform established by Ministry
of the judicial system         system demonstrated through : the         of Justice and Supreme Judicial
                               improved structure and capacity of the    Council in 2002.
                               SJC, monitoring of case load per judge,
                               and a reduction in complaints and
                               disciplinary measures against judges,
                               and improved perceptions of judges'
                               ethics.                                  Legislative framework to provide for
                                                                        appropriate and strengthened



                                                        - 50 -

                              By mid-2005, a new and improved          accountability framework for magistrates
                              legislative framework for providing      established in 2003 as well as for their
                              legal services by attorneys, improved    selection, performance appraisal,
                              quality of legal services and better     promotion and demotion with effect from
                              enforcement of ethical rules             early 2004; setting up of an internal unit
                                                                       (standing commission) within SJC to
                                                                       address issues of corruption within
                                                                       Judiciary according to a national
                                                                       Anti-corruption Strategy and Action Plan
                                                                       approved by the SJC. Anti-corruption
                                                                       hotlink in place since end-2004.

                              By end-2005, registration/accreditation
                              process for mediators will be in place,
                              and by mid-2006 there will be an
                              increase in the number of cases handled
                              through mediation

                              By end-2006, at least 50% of
                              specialized administrative courts will be
                              operational.
Pillar 5: Investing in Human
Capital and Strengthening
Social Protection
Improving the governance andBy end-2007, continued gradual              Student-teacher ratio for grades 1-4
efficiency of the educational improvement in student-teacher ratio      was 16.9 in 2002-03 against 17.7 for
system                        towards OECD levels particularly in       OECD levels and 16.7 for EU
                              higher education                          countries average; student-teacher ratio
                                                                        in grades 5-8 was 12.2 in 2002-03
                                                                        against 15.0 for OECD and 12.6 for
                                                                        EU countries average; student-teacher
                                                                        ratio in grades 9-13 in 2002-03 was
                                                                        11.0 against 13.9 for OECD and 12.9
                                                                        for EU countries average; in 2003-04,
                                                                        student, staff ratio in higher education
                              By end-2007, greater autonomy and         system was about 10:1, compared to
                              accountability in management of higher average student-staff ratio for the
                              education institutions , in particular    OECD of 16.4:1.
                              through considerable representation of
                              external stakeholders on university
                              governing councils and
                              professionalization of the position of
                              the position and appointment of the
                              rector to assure independence from the
                              governing body.
Improving quality and equity By end-2007, public expenditures on       Public expenditures on education:
of education at all levels    education as a percentage of GDP are     2002: 4.2% of GDP
                              closer to OECD levels (5.6%).            2003, 2004 and 2005 (programmed):
                                                                       4.4%

                              Reduction in the gap in participation,   Non-enrollment rates among 7-18 year
                              enrollment, and attendance rates for     olds fell between 2001 and 2003, with
                              minorities and families in poverty as    largest absolute decline (20 percentage



                                                       - 51 -

                               compared with the general population    points) among children from poorest
                                                                       quintile
                               By end-2007, 40% of Roma students
                               integrated into mainstream schools

                               By end-2007, increase in number of
                               children with special education needs   Legal and regulatory changes in place to
                               integrated into mainstream              promote integrated teaching for children
                               kindergartens and schools; and in the   with special education needs; 130
                               number of schools and kindergartens     resource teachers appointed in 2004-05
                               adapted to receive and educate children school year to tutor 675 children and
                               with special education needs            students with special educational needs.
                                                                       10 schools for children with special needs
                                                                       started teaching the regular curriculum.
                               By end-2007, gradual reversal in the
                               present trend of declining performance
                               of the system as measured by national
                               and international assessments.
Improving the governance and By 2005, NHIF administrative costs         Administrative costs in 2004 at 3%, as
financial sustainability of the kept at less than 3% of total           per NHIF end-year report; budgeted
health system                   expenditures                            admin costs in 2005 ­ less than 3%
                                                                        inclusive of capital expenditures.

                               By 2006, financing of all hospitals     NHIF budget allocated to inpatient care
                               becomes the responsibility of the NHIF increased by 53% from 2003 to 2004; and
                                                                       by 20% in 2005, accounting for 50% of
                                                                       all inpatient expenditures including
                               By 2007, NHIF will have a balanced      reserve. As of January 1, 2006 all
                               annual budget between its revenues and general hospitals receive their financing
                               expenditures, and will cease to         solely from NHIF.
                               supplement it from its reserve funds
                                                                       Gradual deficit increase was expected in
                                                                       the period 2004-06, before achieving
                                                                       balanced budget in 2007. Deficit in
                               By end-2005, completion of new cycle 2003: 0.7%; 2004: planned deficit around
                               of accreditation of inpatient medical   6.7%, but in effect ended up with a small
                               care facilities (will also form new     surplus due to improved collection; 2005
                               baseline)                               ­ 11% planned deficit
Enhancing access to and         By end-2005, the average occupancy     Occupancy rate in acute care hospitals
quality of healthcare services  ratio in acute care hospitals will     (supervised by MOH) was 66% in 2001,
and promoting multi-sectoral    reach 85%                              75% in 2002, 79% in 2003, and 80% in
interventions for effective                                            2004.
public health actions           By the end-2005, the average length
                                of stay (ALOS) in days in acute care   The ALOS for acute care hospitals
                                hospitals will be reduced from 11.5    (supervised by MH) was 11 days in 2001,
                                in 2000 towards the EU average of      9 days in 2002, 8.8 days in 2003, and 7.3
                                8.2 days                               days in 2004/5.

                                By end-2005, there will be a system    New cases of tuberculosis fell from 48 per
                                in place for periodic monitoring and   100,000 in 2001 to 42.4 in 2004; polio
                                evaluation of immunization,            immunization rate for children under 2
                                tuberculosis case detection and        years rose from 94.4 % in 2000 to 96% in
                                treatment/cure, HIV prevalence rates 2003, but resorted back to 94.1% in 2004.



                                                          - 52 -

                                                                         HIV prevalence monitoring system is in
                                  By end-2007, increase in               place, with HIV prevalence still very low
                                  immunization coverage and              in 2005.
                                  reduction in the incidence of
                                  infectious diseases including          Share of MOH central procurement
                                  tuberculosis.                          budget for National Health Programs
                                                                         increased from 18.6% in 2002, to 19% in
                                  By 2010, gradual increase of excise    2003, 26 % in 2004, and 29% in 2005
                                  duty on tobacco products towards       (2004 and 2005 figures are budget
                                  harmonization as per the EU            estimates)
                                  directive (to be assessed on a yearly
                                  basis)                                 2004 budget provided for 1% of the
                                                                         excise tax to be applied to financing
                                                                         tobacco, alcohol and drug control
                                                                         programs. Excise duty on tobacco
                                                                         products is gradually being increased on
                                                                         an annual basis to reach the EU level in
                                                                         2010.
Improving the administration From 2005, no new disability pensions Legislation prohibits awarding disability
and targeting of disability      awarded to people above retirement age pension to people already receiving old
benefits and empowering the                                              age pensions.
disabled to integrate fully into Improved control over disability uptake
society                          and fraud by end-2006                   Legislation provides for improved
                                                                         control by NSSI over the disability
                                 By end-2006, needs (social) assessment assessment process
                                 regulations are in place and are applied
                                 to the disabled                         Legislation introduces notion of social
                                                                         assessment
Ensuring the successful           By 2005, stability achieved in benefit The Social Insurance Code:
implementation of pension         indexation, contribution base          (a) specifies the timetable for the change
reform                            dynamics, and contribution rates       in the ratio of employer to employee
                                                                         contributions from 70:30 in 2005 to
                                                                         50:50 in 2009
                                                                         (b) sets benefit indexation at
                                                                         75%CPI+25%wage growth,
Improving the effectiveness of Increased effectiveness of GMI             Coverage of GMI increased 2.7 times
social assistance programs                                                between 2001 and 2003, and of energy
                                                                          benefits 2.5 times.
                                 Increase in share of poorest quintile
                                 among beneficiaries of child allowance   Share of funds channeled to poorest
                                 program and reduced leakage to richest quintile increased from 60% to 75%
                                 2 quintiles.                             for GMI, from 20% to 35% for child
                                                                          allowances, from 47% to 54% for
                                                                          energy benefits; share of funds to
                                                                          richest two quintiles fell from 40% to
                                 Increased school attendance for          23% for child allowances program.
                                 children from poor households.
                                                                         School drop-out rates fell between 2001
                                                                         and 2003, with largest absolute decline
                                 Improved targeting of energy benefit    (20%) among children from poorest
                                 payments                                quintile
Reducing institutionalization     By 2007, decline in number of           The number of institutions has
of children through helping       children in specialized institutions by decreased from 316 in 2001 to 305 in



                                                          - 53 -

families and fostering         10%                                     2003, or by 3.5%; the number of
community-based                                                        children placed in all types of
alternatives to institutional                                          residential institutions has decreased
care                                                                   from 30,751 in 2001 to 23,688 in
                                                                       2004, or by 23%; including the number
                                                                       of children placed in institutions under
                                                                       the Child Protection Act has decreased
                              By 2007, increase in the number of       from 12,511 in 2001 to 10.284 in 2004
                              restructured childcare institutions      or by 17.8%.

                               By 2007, increase in the number of     Restructuring plans prepared.
                               care providers subject to transparent, Restructuring started on a pilot basis in
                               modern licensing procedures            2005
                               By 2007, increase in number of
                               non-governmental alternative child     There were 12 licensed
                               care providers and in community        non-governmental child care providers
                               based child welfare services           in mid-2004 and 119 by end-January
                                                                      2006.




                                                      - 54 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation




                                                  - 55 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable as this is an adjustment operation




                                                  - 56 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              9/28/2004               19     Mission leader (1)                    S               S
                                             Task Team Leader (1)
                                             Pub. Admin. & Expenditure
                                             Mangmt. (2)
                                             Infrastructure & Energy Spec. (2)
                                             Educaiton & Training Spec. (1)
                                             Social Assistance Specialist (1)
                                             Property registration & state
                                             reserves (1)
                                             Judicial Reform Specialist (1)
                                             Health Specialist (2)
                                             Lead Economist (1)
                                             Financial Sector Specialist (1)
                                             Pensions and Disability Spec. (1)
                                             Railways Specialist (2)
                                             Labor Market Specialist (1)
                                             Telecommunications Spec. (1)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              3/21/2005               13     Team Leader (1)
                                             Operation Officer (2)
                                             Health Specialist (1)
                                             Lead Energy Economist (1)
                                             Lead Specialist (1)
                                             Lead Transport Specialist (1)
                                             Sr. Counsell (1)
                                             Public Admin. reform
                                             Specialist (2)
                                             Judicial reform Specialist (1)
                                             Lead Economist (1)
                                             Economist (1)


 Supervision
              3/31/2005                25    Economist (2)                         S               S
                                             Lead Economist (2)
                                             Operations Adviser (1)
                                             Sr. Counsel (3)
                                             Lead Transport Specialist (1)
                                             Sr. Financial Management
                                             Specialist (2)
                                             Lead Energy Eocnomist (1)
                                             Sr. Public Health Spec. (1)
                                             Senior Economist (1)



                                              - 57 -

                                                   Lead Specialist (1)
                                                   Senior Finance Officer (1)
                                                   Senior Procument Spec (1)
                                                   Sr. Private Sector
                                                   Development Spec. (1)
                                                   Financial Sector Specialist
                                                   (1)
                                                   Operation Officer (1)
                                                   Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.
                                                   (3)
                                                   Program Assistant (2)




 ICR
               4/25/2006                     3     Economist (1)                        S            S
                                                   Consultant (1)
                                                   Sector Manager (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                168.07                           705,944
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       31.23                          128,274
  Supervision                                  21.1                           89,613
  ICR                                             20                          63,750
  Total                                       240.4                          950,581
Note: Bank inputs listed here are only for PAL3. See respective interim ICRs for Bank inputs for PAL1
and PAL2




                                                   - 58 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 59 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 60 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

(A) Project Documents
   o   Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
       Development (IBRD) to the Executive Directors on a proposed first Programmatic Adjustment
       Loan (PAL1) to the Republic of Bulgaria, October 31, 2002
   o   Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
       and Development (IBRD) to the Executive Directors on a proposed second Programmatic
       Adjustment Loan (PAL2) to the Republic of Bulgaria, June 8, 2004
   o   Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction
       and Development (IBRD) to the Executive Directors on a proposed third Programmatic
       Adjustment Loan (PAL3) to the Republic of Bulgaria, May 05, 2005
   o   Bulgaria Letter of Development Policy (PAL1, PAL2, PAL3)
   o   Loan Agreement (PAL1, PAL2 and PAL3) between Republic of Bulgaria And International Bank
       for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
   o   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Program Document for a proposed first
       Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL1) to the Republic Of Bulgaria
   o   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Program Document for a proposed second
       Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL2) to the Republic Of Bulgaria
   o   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Program Document for a proposed third
       Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL3) to the Republic Of Bulgaria
   o   Project Status Report (PAL1, PAL2, and PAL3)

(B) Aide Memoires
   o   January 31, 2002 PAL1 Preparation Mission Aide Memoire
   o   May 17 - 24, 2002 PAL1 Mission on Business Environment Aide Memoire
   o   September 23-27, 2002 PAL Labor Market Component ­ Preparation Aide Memoire
   o   December 2002 PAL2 Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire
   o   January 2003 PAL2 Identification Mission Aide-Memoire
   o   March 13, 2003 PAL2 Pillar 4 Identification Missions Back-To-Office Report
   o   May 2003 PAL2 Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire
   o   July 2003 PAL2 Pre-Appraisal/Preparation and PAL3 Identification Mission Aide-Memoire
   o   October/November 2003 PAL2 Pre-Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire
   o   January 21, 2004 PAL2 Pre-Appraisal Mission: Back To Office Report
   o   February/March 2004 PAL2 Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire

(C) Regional Operations Committee(ROC) Minutes
   o   PAL2 Regional Operations Committee (ROC) Meeting Minutes of December 9, 2003
   o   PAL3 Regional Operations Committee (ROC) Meeting Minutes of March 17, 2005

(D) PAL Interim ICRs
   o   PAL1 Implementation Completion Report
   o   PAL2 Implementation Completion Report

(E) Economic and Sector Work (ESW)
   o   Anticorruption in Transition, 2000 and 2004
   o   Bulgaria Poverty Assessment Report, 1999 and 2002
   o   Bulgaria Public Expenditure and Institution Review, 2001
   o   Country Financial Accountability Assessment, 2003


                                                 - 61 -

   o   EBRD-World Bank Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey (BEEPS), 2002
       and 2005
   o   EBRD Transition Reports, 2002 and 2005
   o   Growth, Poverty, and Inequality in ECA,2005
   o   Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reform, 2003
   o   The Dual Challenges of Transition and EU Accession, 2001
   o   Third Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL3) Issues Paper
   o   European Commission's Regular Report on Bulgaria's Progress towards Accession (annual)
   o   World Bank-IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), 2002

(F) Related Legislations
       o   Law on Privatization and Post Privatization Control
       o   Energy and Energy Efficiency Act (EEEA)
       o   Telecommunications Law
       o   Environment Protection Act
       o   Biodiversity Law
       o   Law on Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control on Economic Activities
       o   Law on State Aid
       o   Law on the Protection of Competition
       o   Law on Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control on Economic Activities
       o   Anti-discrimination Law
       o   Bankruptcy Law
       o   Law on Public Offering of Securities
       o   Law on Measures Against Terrorist Financing
       o   Law on Financial Supervision Commission
       o   Law on State Administration
       o   Social Assistance Act
       o   Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products




                                                 - 62 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      - 63 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Outcome of the Bulgaria Programmatic Adjustment Loans (PALs)
Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report (ILI) Workshop
June 20, 2006 at Crystal Palace Hotel, Sofia

The intensive learning ICR (ILI) workshop was attended by representatives of various agencies of
the Government of Bulgaria and staff of the World Bank. Participants from government agencies
included staff from the Council of Ministers, Ministry of Economy and Energy, Ministry of
Education and Science, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, National Health
Insurance Fund, National Social Security Institute (NSSI), Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Health, and Ministry of State Administration and Administrative Reform. On the Bank side,
participants of the Workshop included the PAL design and implementation team members as well
as team members of the current Development Policy Lending (DPL) and the Social Inclusion
Project (SIP). The session was co-moderated by Daniel Dulitzky, Co-Task Team Leader (TTL)
for the DPL project and Lire Ersado, who was the TTL for the preparation of the ICR. The list
of participants and the Workshop agenda are attached below.

The Workshop was comprised of three presentations and ensuing discussions on each of them.
The first presentation was on the main findings and the views of the PAL Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) team with regard to the design, implementation effectiveness, and the
lessons learned of the PAL program. The second one presented GOB's evaluation of the PAL
program. The final presentation was on the reflections of the PAL task team leaders, including
what worked. The discussions during the workshop were focused around the design of the PAL
instrument, the main achievements of the program, what worked and what did not work well, and
the lessons for future Bank involvement in Bulgaria.

The key messages from the workshop are outlined below.

9.1.The Overall PAL Program Objectives and Design
(a) PAL addressed key development challenges. The participants of the Workshop have agreed
with the finding of the ICR team that the PAL program addressed key development challenges
facing the government of Bulgaria. The objectives were well crafted and appropriate given the
Bulgaria level of development at the time. The program appropriately supported the medium term
reform program of the Government of Bulgaria (GOB) that emphasized private initiative as the
main engine of economic growth, and empowerment of the population to participate in future
growth. The PAL series with its three successive operations (namely, PAL1, PAL2 and PAL3)
was a comprehensive effort of institutional and structural reforms necessary for Bulgaria's
complete transition to market economy and to realize Bulgaria's aspirations for EU membership.

(b) GOB ownership of PAL a key success factor. The participants concurred that the
ownership of the PAL program by the government of Bulgaria and the Bank's contribution
through design and increasing the visibility of the program were the key factors for successful
implementation. The participants acknowledged that more than the loan money, the Bank's
know-how and its international experience, was the key factor. The participants from government
agencies praised the quality of the Bank's analytic work that underpinned the program design and


                                                - 64 -

the broad and relevant international experience that the Bank staff brought to bear in the program
supervision.

(c) PAL was too complex in its coverage, conditionality, level of detail and specificity, but
participants agreed that that was what was needed at the time. Although PAL appeared
over-designed and not well aligned with the Bank's emerging model of support to middle income
countries, the GOB demanded a detailed roadmap and specific implementation strategies. As
Bulgaria has progressed immensely in its implementation and reform management capacity during
PAL, the participants emphasized that future Bank engagement in Bulgaria should give the GOB
more flexibility in project design and implementation. This has been a good lesson for the DPL
program, which is maintaining a fewer number of core conditions than the PAL series did.

9.2 Achievement of the Development Objectives
There was overall agreement among the participants that the PAL program was successful in
achieving its desired objectives. The program implemented most of its specific structural and
institutional reforms as well as it achieved the broader stated objectives of private-led growth,
poverty and unemployment reduction, and EU accession. However, although Bulgaria maintained
its general macroeconomic stability during PAL, some participants of the Workshop pointed out
current IMF's concern that there are some deficiencies and potential risks in the macroeconomic
environment that may affect Bulgaria's medium term prospects. These included the rapid
acceleration of credit to the private sector and increase in current account deficit.

The inability to privatize Bulgartabac was widely discussed during the workshop. Participants felt
that too much emphasis was put on Bulgartabac. The participants felt that the lack of progress in
the privatization of Bulgartabac, while it may reflect poorly on the achievements of the PAL
program, had a negligible demonstrative effect on the GOB's seriousness to enhance private
sector participation in growth.

9.3. Major Factors Affecting Implementation
The Workshop participants stressed that the successful implementation of the PAL program is
largely attributable to the strong commitment of the GOB to EU accession. And GOB ownership
of the program was another essential factor for successful implementation. Program coordination
within the GOB was a critical success factor to program outcomes. The Council for Economic
Policy (formerly the Council for Structural Policy) under the COM has been effective in managing
the program and coordinating among different public sector institutions. Participants also
appreciated the usefulness of Bank's know-how and positive influence for advancing
multi-sectoral reform efforts.

9.4. Sustainability
The participants agreed with the GOB and Bank findings that the sustainability of the
achievements is likely. This was due to continued GOB commitment to successful integration
into the EU.     Participants emphasized that there are no political or economic incentives to
backtrack on the reforms that enabled Bulgaria to become a fully functioning market economy.

9.5. Bank and Borrower Performance



                                                 - 65 -

(a) Bank Performance. Staff from government agencies praised Bank team performance in
both design and supervision of the PAL program. Bank had a disciplinary effect on the
government, reminding and pushing it for reform. GOB officials praised the ability of Bank
specialists to bring to bear "lessons of international experience," e.g., in reforming business
regulation, privatization, and social sector reform. Bulgarian authorities indicated that the Bank
played a key catalytic role and as a "public stimulus" for difficult reforms by applying "soft
external pressure".

(b) GOB Performance. Workshop discussions pointed out that the decisive government support
of the PAL program and its adherence to a firm and comprehensive multi-sectoral reform agenda
contributed to the smooth process of design and implementation. The government performance
was outstanding particularly on Pillars 1 through 4. The Council for Economic Policy under the
COM, the Council for State Administration Modernization established under PAL2, and the
Ministry of Finance were very effective in implementing the reforms under the PAL series.

9.6. List of People Met by the PAL ILI Mission

GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA
H.E. Nikolay Vassilev, Minister of State Admin, former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of
Economy and Minister of Transport
H.E. Ms. Zinaida Veleva, Director, EU Integration and Relations with the International
Financial Institutions (IFI) Directorate, and Chief PAL program coordinator
Ms. Snejana Dimitrova, Director, State Administration Directorate
Mr. Dimiter Ivanovski, Deputy Minister, Ministry of Finance, former DM of Labor and Social
Policy and Deputy Minister of Energy and Economy
Mr. Lachezar Stefanov, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Svetla Panova, Ministry of Finance
Mr. Petko Salchev, former Deputy Minister of Health
Mr. Valery Apostolov, member of National Audit Office, former DM of Labor and Social Policy
Mr. Milko Kovatchev, former Minister of Energy and Minister of Economy
Ms. Mariana Borissova, Ministry of Education and Science
Ms. Ekaterina Vitkova, Deputy Minister, Directorate, Council of Ministers Office
Ms. Koeva, Director, Directorate, Council of Ministers Office
Ms. Evgenia Nacheva, Director, Financing Directorate, National Health Insurance Fund
Ms. Elka Dimitrova, Director Labor Market Policy Directorate
Mr. Pindjurov, Director, Budget Directorate
K. Palikarski, Secretary, Anti-Corruption Commission and Adviser to the Minister of State
Administration
Mr. Nasko Tsanev, former Executive Director of Bulgaria Railways Company
Ms. Maria Tomova, Director, Social Assistance Directorate, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Mr. Plamen NIkiforov, Head of water supply and sewage department
Mr. Dragomir Cholakov, Ministry of Justice
Mr. Ivan Neykov, former Minister of Labor and Social Policy, Chair, Balkan Institute for Labor
and Social Policy
Mr. Svetlozar Tonev, Executive Director, Registration Agency



                                                  - 66 -

WORLD BANK
Anand Seth, Country Director, ECCU5
Arup Banerji, Sector Manager, ECSHD
Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Country Manager, ECCU5/Bulgaria
Albert Martinez, PAL1 Task Team Leader, ECCU5
Neil Parison, PAL2 Task Team Leader, ECSPE
Reema Nayar, PAL3 Co-Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Boryana Gotcheva, PAL3 Co-Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Sandor Sipos, Sector Manager, HDNSP
Lada Strelkova, OPCRX
Stella Ilieva, ECSPE
Tony Verheijen, ECSPE
Lalit Raina, ECSPF
Irina Astrakhan, ECSPF
Istvan Dobozi, ECSIE
Sudipto Sarkar, ECSIE
Peter Pojarski, ECSHD
Doncho Barbalov, ECSIE
Henri Kerali, ESCIE
Dominic Haazen, ECSHD
Csaba Feher, ECSHD
David Fretwell, ECSHD
Stefano Scarpetta, HDNSP
Anna Georgieva, ECSSD

INTERNATIONAL AND DONOR AGENCIES
Ms. Maya Koteva, Economist, EU Delegation
Mr. James Roaf, IMF Resident Representative
Mr. Jene Gibson, USAID
Ms. Svetozara Petkova, USAID
Ms. Raina Dimitrova, USAID

NGOS AND CIVIC SOCIETY
Mr. Krassen Stanchev, Executive Director, Institute for Market Economics
Mr. Lachezar Bogdanov, Industry Watch
Mr. Ivo Prokopief, Bulgaria International Business Association (BIBA)
Ms. Sasha Bezuhanova, Bulgaria International Business Association (BIBA)
Ms. Andriana Sukova-Tosheva, Bulgaria International Business Association (BIBA)
Mr. Levon Hamparzumjan, Bulgaria International Business Association (BIBA)
Mr. Ivan Neykov, former Minister of Labor and Social Policy, at present Chairman of the Balkan
Institute for Labor and Social Policy

9.6. ICR Workshop Participants
Ms. Svetlana Panova, Head of Department, Ministry of Finance


                                            - 67 -

Ms. Ivet Maymounkova, Council of Ministers
Mr. Peter Pojarski, Operations Officer, World Bank
Ms. Dessislava Lazova, Senior Expert, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Elisaveta Paniovska, Director Directorate, Ministry of Education and Science
Mr. Dragomir Stoynev, Council of Ministers
Mr. Vladimir Nedialkov, Senior Expert, Council of Ministers
Mr. Inna Veder, Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Ms. Teodora Noncheva, Nacional Social Security Institute
Mr. Mladen Georgiev, Counselor, Council of Ministers
Ms. Detelina Smilnova, Ministry of Economy and Energy
Ms. Irena Nikolova, Expert, Ministry of Economy and Energy
Mr. Christian Bodewig, Economist, World Bank
Mr. Juan Manuel Moreno, TTL, Bulgaria DPL1, Education team
Ms. Boryana Gotcheva, Senior Operations Officer, World Bank
Ms. Kari Hurt, Operations Officer, World Bank
Mr. Daniel Dulitzky, TTL, DPL1, World Bank
Ms. Albena Samsonova, Team Assistant, World Bank

9.7. Agenda for the HSSP ILI Workshop
Crystal Palace Hotel, Sofia
Tuesday June 20, 2006

9:00-9:10      Welcome Remarks and Introduction to Workshop by Chairman of Workshop
9:10-9:20      Keynote Remarks by Official Representative, Government of Bulgaria
9:20-10:50     Implementation Completion Report (ICR)--Main findings and Lessons
Learned by PAL ICR TTL
10:50-10:30    Questions and Observations from Stakeholders
10:30-10:45    Coffee/tea break
10:45-11:15    Borrower Evaluation of the PAL by GOB counterpart
11:15-11:45    Reflections from PAL Task Team Leaders
11:45-12:30    Questions and Observations from Stakeholders
12:30-12:45    Wrap-up and Concluding Remarks by Government Official and Chairman of
Workshop
12:45-2:00     Lunch
2:00           End of Workshop




                                            - 68 -

- 69 -

