                                               Documentof
                                           THEWORLDBANK


                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                ReportNo. 30696-BG




         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                       PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                      FOR A PROPOSEDLOAN

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO 116.1MILLION
                                 (US$150 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                   THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

                                          FOR A PROPOSED

                         THIRD PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN




                                               May 4,2005




HumanDevelopmentUnit
South CentralEuropeCountry Unit
EuropeandCentral Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and maybe usedby recipients only inthe performance o ftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                                                                                                   II

           CurrencvEguivalent
(Exchange Rate Effective as of M a y 4, 2005)
  Currency Unit = Bulgarian L e v (BGN)
          US$l.OO = BGN0.66
        Government Fiscal Year
        January 1- December 3 1
       Weiphtsand Measurements
               Metric System




      Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
    Country Director:  Anand Seth
      Sector Director: Charles Griffin
     Sector Manager:  Amp Banerji
       Team Leader:    Reema Nayar

                                                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                   TABLE OFCONTENTS

     LOAN PROGRAMSUMMARY
            AND                                  ............................................................ ........................................             i
     A. SUMMARYOF ACHIEVEMENTS UNDERPAL-3..                                      ........................................................................
     B. RECENTECONOMIC               DEVELOPMENTSPROSPECTS...................
                                                                    AND                                                   ...................................
        Background and Recent Economic Developments
        MediumTermProspects............................................................................................................ 14
                                                                                    ......................................................................        71
                                                                                                                                                                  7

        Creditworthiness ....................,..............................................,..................... ......................:........16
     c.Addressing    Poverty....................................................................................................................
           THEREFORM PROGRAM
                Sustaining Structural Reforms......................................................................................
                                             ..........................................      ,......................... ..........................         , 20
                                                                                                                                                            ......18
        Pillar I:                                                                                                                                                23
        Pillar 11: Establishinga Market-friendly Business Environment............................................
        Pillar 111: Deepening the Financial System................................................................................                            :..28
                                                                                                                                                                 33

        Pillar V: Investing inHuman Capital and Strengthening Social Protection..............................
        Pillar IV:Improving Public Sector Govemance........................................................................                                      34

     D. BANKC,R#?UPSHF-,TEGY........,: .i_.*ii,,...l...i..~......l.Oi.....si*............~...~...........~ 4'    .     I                       ....,...,.......40
        Country Assistance Strategy         ......:.....................................................................................                 .........49
        Portfolio Quality ........................................................................................................................     :
                                                                                                                                                                 49
        Cooperation with the IMF .........................................................................................................
        Coordination with Donors ...................................................................................... ....,..............50                     50
     E. THEPROPOSED          LOAN.       .........................................................................................................                50
        Major Policy Areas and Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation ........................................                                                 50
        MediumTermReformPrioritiesbeyond P A L 3....................................................................... 54
                                                                                                  ,......................................................59
        Poverty and Social Impacts .......................................................................................................
        Implementation and Monitoring.........................................
                                                                                                                                                             .....60
        Fiduciary arrangements ...........................................................................................................
        Environmental Aspects ......................................................................................................... 60                      ..61
        Benefits and Risks ..................................................................................................................... 63

                                           TABLES, FIGURESAID BOXES

      Table 1: Major Achievements Supported by PAL Program and P A L 3                                                                                             3
      Table 2: Selected Economic Indicators                                                                                                                        8
      Table 3: Progress on Structural Reform                                                                                                                      23
      Table 4: PAL 3 Triggers and related P A L 3 Board Conditions                                                                                                55

      Figure 1: Real GDP                                                                                                                                          13
      Figure 2: CPI Inflation                                                                                                                                     13
      Figure 3: Fiscal Balance                                                                                                                                    13
      Figure 4: Current Account Balance                                                                                                                           13
      Figure 5: Registered Unemployment                                                                                                                           13
      Figure 6: FDI Inflows                                                                                                                                       13
      Figure 7: Govemment Expenditure                                                                                                                              15
      Figure 8: Foreign Direct Lnvestment inBulgaria and Other Central and European Countries                                                                     24
      Figure 9: Private Sector Share o f GDP mid-2004 (%)                                                                                                         28
      Figure 10: Closing a Business inBulgaria                                                                                                                    33
      Figure 11: Share o f Competitive Recruitment Exercises in Bulgaria                                                                                          35
      Figure 12: Reduction in School Drop-Out Rates by Quintiles, 2001 versus 2003                                                                                42

      Box 1:Poverty in Bulgaria                                                                                                                                    11
      Box 2: Status o f Additional P A L 3 Triggers                                                                                                                17
      Box 3: The Govemment Medium Term Program and the MDGs                                                                                                        19
      Box 4: The PAL Program and the Successful Transformation o f the Energy Sector                                                                              26

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

Box 5: Business Registrationin Bulgaria                                       31
Box 6: Improved Effectiveness o f Social Assistance under the PAL Program     47

                                          ANNEXES
Annexes:
Annex 1. Bulgaria at a Glance
Annex 2. Bulgaria Social Indicators
Annex 3.   Selected IndicatorsTable
Annex 4. Key ExposureIndicators
Annex 5.  Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6. Matrix o f Performance Benchmarks and Desired Outcomes
Annex 6-A List o f Companies Not Includedinthe Privatization Program
Annex 6-BLarge State-owned Enterprisesmanks to be Privatized or Liquidated
Annex 7   IMF-World Bank Relations

                          REPUBLICOFBULGARIA
               THIRD PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                       LOAN PROGRAMSUMMARY
                               AND

Borrower:         Republic o f Bulgaria
Amount:           EURO 116.1 million(US$150 million equivalent)
Terms:            Variable Spread Loan (VSL) in Euro with 17 years maturity including
                  five years grace period and level repayments
Objectives and    The Third Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL 3) continues the PAL
Description:      Program support to the government's medium term program. The main
                  objectives are the achievement o f average annual growth rates o f 4.5-5.0
                  percent during 2002-05, the reduction o f the poverty rate by half by
                  2005 compared to 2001, and the reduction o f the unemployment rate
                  from 18.1 percent in 2001 to 12-14 percent in 2005, together with
                  substantial progress towards European Union (EU) accession, which i s
                  now expected to occur in 2007. The medium term program balances a
                  strategy o f private sector-led growth and empowerment to ensure wide
                  participation in growth. The program consists o f five complementary
                  pillars:
                      Sustaining structural reforms inthe enterprise sector with emphasis
                      on the completion o f privatization and the restructuring o f the
                      energy, railway, telecommunications, and water sectors;
                      Establishing a market-friendly business environment, focusing on
                      reducing entry constraints, accelerating exits, securing deregulation
                      and reducing regulatory costs, improving the delivery o f public
                      services to business, improving the competitive environment, and
                      improving labor market policies;
                      Deepening theJinancial sector, improving the legal framework for
                      lending, completing banking reform, and developing financial
                      markets;
                      Improving public        sector   governance,    strengthening   public
                      administration capacity, improving service delivery, reducing
                      corruption,    strengthening      accountability   and  transparency,
                      strengthening public expenditure management, and increasing the
                      efficiency and effectiveness o f the judicial system;
                      Investing in human capital and strengthening social programs,
                      improving service delivery in education and health, continuing
                      pension reforms,       increasing   social   assistance effectiveness,
                      providing for better integration o f the disabled and reducing the
                      institutionalization o f children.
                  Progress in the direction o f the objectives o f the program has been
                  impressive: the average annual growth rate during 2002-05 has been
                  estimated at 5.1 percent, unemployment has declined dramatically from
                  18.1 percent in2001 to 12.7 percent in 2004, and poverty has continued
                  to fall. PAL-3 continues the unfinished reform agenda o f the previous
                  PALS,with a focus on the social sector agenda.




                                         i

Benefits:    There are five distinct but complementary benefits.         First, PAL-3
             provides continuing assistance to the government in maintaining the
             momentum o f reforms to achieve the key goals o f its medium term
             economic program: to achieve sustained growth and reduce poverty and
             unemployment while progressing towards EU accession. Second, the
             loan supports the strengthening o f those institutional arrangements
             required to ensure the successful implementation,           coordination,
             monitoring, and evaluation o f ongoing and future medium term
             programs. Third, PAL-3 lays the groundwork for a future medium term
             reform program through identifying specific outcomes to be achieved
             over the period 2005-07 and indicating medium term directions o f
             reform.     Fourth, PAL-3 complements the government's ongoing
             investment projects by establishing the enabling policy framework.
             Fifth, the program that is supported by the loan complements and
             reinforces the IMF program to keep Bulgaria on its macroeconomic
             stabilizationpath.
Risks:       There are three main risks:

             0   Political risk remains high, but is mitigated by the maturity of the
                 reform agenda. With the outcome o f the forthcoming Parliamentary
                 elections as yet uncertain, this presents risks for completing the
                 envisioned legslative changes. Mechanisms established or being
                 established for stakeholder consultation, are expected to strengthen
                 support for completing the reforms and could mitigate this to some
                 extent. There are also moderate risks regarding the continuity o f
                 reforms in the medium term. The latter risks are mitigated to a
                 significant degree by the strong support from all political parties for
                 Bulgaria's EU accession, which helps to provide an anchor for the
                 remaining structural, institutional and social reforms - and
                 particularly the reforms to public administration and the judiciary.
                 The risks to reforms beyond PAL-3 are further mitigated by the
                 advanced stage o f implementation o f several o f the structural
                 reforms, for which the foundation was established under earlier
                 PALs.    Finally, accompanying social protection measures have
                 further mitigated the risks for these reforms.

             0   Implementation risks from weak capacity remain for continuing
                 reforms beyond PAL-3. The institutional capacity i s uneven across
                 government agencies and the impact of the institutional reforms
                 supported by the PALs i s only beginning to be felt. The track record
                 under the PAL program to date, however, bodes well for completing
                 and continuing ongoing reforms. The risk i s further mitigated by the
                 implementation support in ongoing investment projects from the
                 Bank and other donors in key areas o f the reform program. Also
                 important i s the ongoing EU support to capacity building through
                 PHARE and twinning arrangements. Nevertheless, risks remain,
                 and there i s a significant medium term agenda in institution and
                 capacity building.




                                    11

                               Macroeconomic stability faces risks and vulnerabilities. Bulgaria
                               faces several potential risks. The economy i s vulnerable to several
                               parameters including an increase in oil prices, higher interest rates,
                               FDI shocks, and a weaker than expected performance in EU
                               economies (the destination o f over 50 percent o f Bulgarian exports
                               and the origin o f more than half o f the FDI inflows.) Domestic
                               vulnerabilities include the degree of effectiveness o f measures
                               undertaken to address the rapid growth o f credit to the non-
                               government sector, failure to enhance domestic market flexibility
                               consistent with the CBA, and the electoral cycle potential pressures
                               on the budget. However, Bulgaria's sustained track record to date,
                               the better than expected performance in 2004, and the active
                               management o f its external debt, the continuation o f prudent fiscal
                               policies, and the solid growth performance reduce the scope o f these
                               vulnerabilities.  Mitigation o f these risks i s predicated on the
                               continued maintenance o f strict discipline in macroeconomic
                               policies and the measures in place to respond to potential risks if
                               they were to materialize.

 ProjectID Number:         PE-PO78675




IThis operation was prepared by the Bulgaria Country Team which includes: Reema Nayar, Task Team         1
 Leader (ECSHD); Boryana Gotcheva, Deputy Task Team Leader (ECSHD); Albert Martinez, Operations
~

 Adviser (ECCUS);     Matthew Andrews, Bill Dillinger, Stella Ilieva, Onik Karapchian, Neil Parison,
 Rosalinda Quintanilla (ECSPE); Doncho Barbalov, Istvan Dobozi, Henry Kerali, Sunja Kim, Sudipto
 Sarkar (ECSIE); David Satola (LEGPS); Irina Astrakhan, Lalit Raina, Marius Vismantas (ECSPF); Anna
 Georgieva, Karin Shepardson (ECSSD); Enis Baris, Csaba Feher, David Fretwell, Peter Pojarski, Stefan0
 Scarpetta (ECSHD); Irina Kichgina (LEGEC); Siew Chai Ting, Pascale De Lettenhove (ECSPS); and
 Nicholay Chistyakov (LOAG1).     Peer reviewers were Stefan Koeberle (OPCCE), Mansoora Rashid
 (SASHD), and Carlos Silva-Jauregui (MNSED). Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Sylvia Stoynova (ECCBG), and
 Myla Taylor Williams (ECCUS) provided strategic advice, support, and coordination. The team also
 benefited from an informal review and inputs from a team including Harry Broadman (ECSPE), Ali
 Mansoor (ECAVP), Mark Sundberg (DECVP), and Jan Walliser (OPCCE) and from the guidance from
 sector managers including Arup Banerji, Armin Fidler, Maureen McLaughlin, Herman von Gersdorff
 (ECSHD); Motoo Konishi, HinderikusBusz (ECSIN); Khaled Sheriff (ECSPF); DeborahWetzel, Bernard
 Funck (ECSPE). NadejdaMochinova(ECSHD) and Svetlana GeorgievaRaykova(ECCBG) providedable
 operational support, and Georgi Nikolai Popchev, Albena Samsonova, (ECCBG), Marina Bud-Sir,
 Dubravka Jerman, Antonia Koleva and Ekaterina Stefanova (ECCUS) provided additional office support.
 GeorgiKourtev (ECCBG) was the communications officer.




                                                  ...
                                                 111


                                 IBRDPROGRAMDOCUMENT
           ON A PROPOSEDTHIRD PROGRAMMATIC ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                              TO THE REPUBLICOF BULGARIA

1.   The proposedThirdProgrammatic Adjustment Loan (PAL-3) to the Republic o f Bulgaria for
EURO 116.1 million (US$l50 million equivalent), is designed to support the Medium Term
Reform Program o f the Government of Bulgaria (GOB), the objectives o f which are to sustain
economic growth, reduce poverty and create employment, and make substantial progress towards
EUaccession.

2.   This loan i s the third o f three programmatic adjustment loans envisaged in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on M a y 9, 2002. A s articulated in the CAS,
PAL-1 focused primarily on structural, regulatory and institutional reforms in the real and
financial sectors that would move Bulgaria towards a functioning market economy (Pillars 1-111o f
the government's five pillar program), and PAL-2 initiated broad reforms in the area o f public
sector governance (Pillar N) while continuing the reforms initiated under PAL-1. P A L 3
continues the unfinishedreform agenda o f the previous PALs, particularly in Pillars I, 11, and N,
while it has a particular focus on the social sector agenda (Pillar V).

3.   This document and the accompanying updated Letter o f Development Policy (LDP) present
an assessment o f progress in achieving the key objectives o f the government's three-year
program.

                         A. SUMMARY OF ACHIEVEMENTS UNDER PAL3

4.   The government has successfullypursuedabroadand ambitious reformprogramwith
the support of the PALs, drivenby the prospect of accessionto the EuropeanUnion. Inthe
majority of reform areas supported by the PAL series, progress has been broadly on track, while
inselected areas progress has been deeper andbroader than anticipated. Inparticular, there have
been significant   achievements in large scale privatization, banking, and infrastructure reform,
where reforms have been completed as envisioned or where performance has surpassed
expectations and significantly improved the investment climate. Reforms in public sector
governance provide a good platform for the significant institution and capacity building agenda
lying ahead for EU accession. In the social sectors, pension reform has been put on a sound
footing, and important achievements have been noted in improving the effectiveness o f social
assistance and enhancing equal access ineducation.

5.   Progresstowards the objectives of the programhasbeenimpressive.The average annual
growth rate during 2002-05 has been estimated at 5.1 percent, unemployment has declined
dramatically from 18.1 percent in 2001 to 12.7 percent in2004, per capita GDP grew at over 5.5
percent per year between 2002 and 2004, and poverty has continued to fall. International financial
markets have responded favorably to the achievements o f the reform program. The progress in
structural reforms i s also reflected inrecent milestones in Bulgaria's path towards EU accession.
In its Regular Reports in 2002, 2003 and 2004, the European Commission (EC) has assessed
Bulgaria as a functioning market economy. On June 15, 2004, Bulgaria provisionally closed all
31 chapters o fthe acquis communautaire, and the government expects to sign the accessiontreaty
inApril2005 andjoin the EUbyitstarget date ofJanuary 2007.

6.   Macroeconomicperformance has remainedstrong throughout the program. Economic
growth accelerated to 5.7 percent duringthe first three quarters o f 2004, following growth rates o f
4.9 percent in 2002 and 4.3 percent in2003. Macroeconomic stability has been maintained, with
inflation still relatively low (at 6.1 percent average inflation in 2004). Strong GDP growth and
active debt management have contributed to a further reduction in government debt to 40.7


                                                   1

percent of GDP in December 2004, well below the Maastricht threshold o f 60 percent. Fiscal
performance continued to improve as a result o f a combination o f tight expenditure policy and
revenue over-performance: fiscal accounts ran a surplus o f 1.8 percent in 2004, compared to a
balanced budget in 2003. FDI inflows were estimated at US$2.5 billion in 2004, the highest
inflows recordedto date since the start o f transition.

7.   PAL-3, as the third in the series of loans, plays an important role in "completing" the
current reform agenda as envisioned, while laying the foundation for a possible future
program.To improve the investment climate, PALS-1 and 2l supported large scale privatization
and significant   restructuring in the energy, telecommunications, and railways sectors. They also
completed the agenda for banking reform as envisioned, and began to implement significant
deregulation to reduce the transactions costs for businesses and to simplify exit. In the area o f
public sector governance, the legal framework for competitive recruitment and advancement in
the civil service and for improving the accountability, efficiency and effectiveness o f thejudiciary
was established. In the social sectors, the legal and regulatory framework for a multi-pillar
pension system was strengthened, and the efficiency and targeting o f social assistance was
significantly improved. PAL-3 has supported the completion o f the reform agenda as envisioned
in the area o f privatization and in the energy and telecommunications sectors. In addition, to
improve the investment climate, PAL-3 supports further restructuring o f the railways sector,
deregulation, particularly o f business entry, and improvements in the delivery o f services to
businesses. Inthe area o f public sector governance, it advances reforms to establish a merit based
and depoliticized civil service and efficient judiciary. Finally in the social sectors, the main
contributions o f PAL-3 are in the completion o f the first stage o f pension reform, the initial
reform of the disability benefits system to reduce misuse and fraud and to facilitate economic and
social integration o f the disabled, significant actions to enhance the opportunities for equal access
to education for children from poor families and ethnic minorities, strengthened public health
programs, and the implementation o f hospital restructuring.                    Further development o f
comprehensive reformprograms inhealth and education is under way, and implementation o f the
future reform agenda in these sectors have been identified as government priorities, including
through possible support from the Bank. The remainder o f this section summarizes the key
achievements o f PAL-3 (Table 1 presents the major achievements supported by the PAL
program, and the major actions under PAL-3). A comprehensive discussion o f the P A L program,
including the full set o f achievements under PAL-3 are discussed in Section C and also
represented inthe Matrix o f Performance Benchmarks and Desired Outcomes (attached as Annex
6 to this report).


' PAL-2  was structured as a two tranche operation with the second floating tranche o f Euro $20 million
linked to progress on Bulgartabak privatization and restructuringiliquidations. In fact, progress on this
particular privatization has been slower than anticipated. The government has been implementing this
privatization but changing market conditions have provided challenges and only partial privatization has
been achieved. The government decided to let PAL-2 close o n the agreed closing date o f March 31, 2005
and to let the second tranche o f PAL-2 lapse. At the start o f the PAL program, the privatization o f
Bulgartabak was viewed as a sign o f resolve o f the government to maintain an attractive investment
climate. Today, with the privatization program nearly completed, including the completion of other long
awaited strategic privatizations inenergy and telecommunications, with private sector share o f GDP having
increased significantly and exceeding government targets, and since the holding does not represent a fiscal
drain, the completion o f this privatization i s far less critical now as an indicator o f Bulgaria's overall
reform progress. Given these developments and progress achieved on other business climate reforms
included in PAL3, no economic or demonstration purpose was considered to be served by carrying over
this privatization in PAL-3. Bulgaria's performance in privatization during the PAL-program is further
discussed in Sections A (paragraph 8 and Table l),    Section B (especially paragraphs 25 and 32), Section C
(especially Table 3, Figure 8 and paragraph 55).       Discussion o f status o f Bulgartabak privatization is
included inTable 4 and footnote 30 to paragraph 55.



                                                       2

Reform Area                   Major Actions Under PAL-1 and 2                                   Major Actions Under PAL-3
                 I                                                            I
                                                         INVESTMENT CLIMATE
Non-              Completed 98% private ownership of bankingsector             Nearly completedoverallprivatization program,through
infrastructure    and 100% privateownership of insurancesector                 sale or liquidation o f 80% SOEs where the govemment had
privatization     through privatization o f remaining large banks (Biochim     majority control in2002 (30% sold inPAL-3 alone), and
                  Bank, and State Savings Bank) and State Insurance            nearly all minority packages (1225 sold in January 2004 to
                  Company.                                                     February 28,2005).

Restructuring     Restructuredenergy sector and preparedit for                 Completedprogram of restructuringof energy sector,
and               private sector entry, and reducedenergy intensity,           through further adjustments in energy tariffs and approval
privatization in  through legal separation o f electricity distribution and    o f an electricity sector restructuring plan.
energy and        generation companies and increase in electricity and         Exceededprivate sector entry targets in energy sector
telecommuni-      heating tariffs, and completedestablishmentof legal          and telecom, through 100%privatization of electricity
cations           and regulatoryframework for liberalizationof                 distribution sector, Bulgarian Telecom. Company, and
                  telecommunicationsmarket.                                    seven district heating companies.

                  Introducedorganizational and institutionalchanges to         Continued improvement in fiscal sustainabilityof
Restructuringof   increaseefficiencyand enableeventual private sector          railways,with railway subsidies, excluding investments
railways          entry, by establishing new railway operating company         kept at 0.2%, down from 0.5% in 2000, and financial
                  and infrastructure state enterprise, and market rules for    working ratio targets for 2004 achieved through signing of
                  licensing, track access. Improved fiscal sustainability      first Public Service Contract, adoption o f a decision to close
                  of railwaysthrough staff reductions of 10% and stopping      250 kmo f uneconomic lines, termination o f 9% of
                  operation o f 200 km o f uneconomic lines.                   passenger services and additional staff reductions, bringing
                                                                               cumulative reductions to 13%.

Deregulationof    Reducedaverage time periodto reach resolutionof              Significantly reducedsteps and time requiredto register
entry, exit and   insolvency cases by 6 monthsthrough enactment of             a business,and reducedtime for resolvingcommercial
operationsof      legislative amendments to improve bankruptcy and             disputes, through legislation for single identification
firms             introduction o f stringent criteria for selection and        number for business registrationand approval o f strategy to
                  monitoring o f bankruptcy trustees.                          takejudges and courts out o fregistration.

Businessservice   Improvedefficiencyof pilot front line government             Improvedefficiency in front line government services,
delivery          services,through introduction of pilot one stop shops in5    through rollout o f one stop shops to over halfo f local
                  central agencies and 6 municipalities.                       administrations, and national replication o f pilot measures
                                                                               to reduce processing time at all participating border crossing
                                                                               points and customs offices.
Bankingand        Exceededmettargetsfor increasesin creditto the
financial         private sector,through legislation to improve exit
intermediation    process for insolvent and closed Banks; strengthening
                  supervision powers o f the Bulgarian National Bank. and
                  improving legaVinstitutiona1 gamework for lending.
                                                   PUBLIC SECTOR GOVERNANCE
Meritand          Approved legislationand establishedinstitutional             Increasedcompetitivenessand depoliticization of the
depoliticization  structuresto create a merit based and depoliticized          civilservice: 100%o f new civil service recruitments
in the Civil      civil senice, by legislating competiti1.e                    subject to extemal competitive process; 2004 pay increases
Service           hiring compensation in public sector, establishing           across govemment, leading to both greater competitiveness
                  performance appraisal system and appro\,ing legislative      with private sector and decompression, and introduction o f
                  framework for introduction o f performance pay.              performance rewards throughout civil service; submission
                                                                               o f legal amendments to depoliticize the civil service.

Accountability    Enhancedaccountability and transparency in civil             Enhancedaccountability and transparency in civil
and               service through govemment adoption o f anti-corruption       service through adoption o fcode o f ethics for civil service,
transparency in   programistrategies, and strengthening o f conflict o f       and significant expansion o f informationaccess in
public sector     interest and asset declaration regimes.                      govemment.

Efficiency,       Improvedaccountability, efficiency, and effectiveness        Increasedefficiency of resolutionof commercial
accountability    of the judiciary, through constitutional and legislative     disputes, through adoption o f Mediation Law to promote
and effectiveness amendments to enhance accountability for judges, and         alternative dispute resolution mechanism for commercial
of thejudiciary   establishing a more transparent and merit-based              disputes, and strengthenedthe administrativejustice
                  appointment system for judges.                               system,through submission to the NationalAssembly of a
                                                                               new Administrative Procedural Code to establish nearly a
                                                                               dozen specialized administrative courts.



                                                                       3

Reform Area                   Major Actions Under PAL-I and 2                               Major Actions Under PAL-3
                  I
                     INVESTINGINHUMANCAPITALAND STRENG IENINGSOCIAL PROTECTION
EducationAccess    Increasedintegrationof childrenfrom ethnic               Increasedintegrationof childrenfrom ethnic minorities
And Equity         minoritiesintoschools, throughthe introductionofan       intoschools, throughadoptionof an updatedstrategyand
                   obligatorypre-schoolyear.                                actionplanto enable access to quality educationfor
                                                                            childrenfromethnic minorities, andearmarking of funds in
                                                                            2005 budget and enactmentof an ordinance establishinga
                   Increasedincentivesfor participationof poor              fund to support integrationof ethnic minorities andto
                   children in schools through legislationto makethe        especially support school desegregation. Reduced
                   child allowance programconditionalon school              incentivesfor droppingout of primary education
                   attendance.                                              through legislationto introducecash assistancefor purchase
                                                                            o f school supplies for poor first grade children from the
                                                                            2004105 schoolyear, and adoptionof NationalProgramto
                                                                            introducefree textbooks, school feeding, transportationin
                                                                            remotevillages.

Publichealthand    Createdinstitutionalstructuresto improvepublic           Strengthenedinstitutionalstructures and capacityto
restructuringof    healthoutcomes, includingreducedincidenceof              improvepublichealthoutcomes, throughincreasein share
hospitals          tuberculosis, increasedimmunizationratesfor              o f MOH operatingbudget to NationalHealthPrograms,
                   children,and reduced incidenceof tobacco related         legislationto earmark 1% of excise tax rate fromtobacco
                   health risks,throughimplementinga mechanismfor           productsto fundnationaltobacco control programand
                   funding nationalhealthprograms.                          increasein excisetax for tobacco, and adoption of
                                                                            legislationto increase tobacco control andregulatetobacco
                                                                            consumptioninpublic places.

                   Improvedhospitalmanagementand productivity               Improvedhospitalmanagement,productivityand
                   through introductionof output-basedpaymentfor            efficiency,throughexpanding output-basedpayment for
                   inpatientcare services.                                  inpatientcare services to cover all major casemix packages,
                                                                            thus providing incentivesfor rationalizationof services, and
                                                                            launchingof restructuringinMinistry of Healthand
                                                                            municipal hospitals.

Integrationof                                                               Enactedlegislationto reducedisabilitypensionuptake,
disabledand                                                                 throughlegal amendments disallowing new claims of
reductionof                                                                 disability pensionsby people over retirementage, and law
fraud in                                                                    strengtheningrole of the National Social SecurityInstitute
disabilitybenefits                                                          indisability assessmentandprovidingfor reprimanding
                                                                            doctors for abuse/fraudinmedicalassessmentofdisability.
                                                                            Enactedimprovedlegislative frameworkfor a flexible
                                                                            systemof disabilitybenefits,through consolidatedlegal
                                                                            act andregulationsfor integrationofthe disabled.

Multi-pillar       Strengthenedlegaland regulatoryframework for             Passedlegislationcompletingfirst stage of planfor
pensionreform      multi-pillar pensionsystem, throughamending              reform of pensionsysteminto a multi-pillar one, and
                   frameworkfor privatepensionplansto improve               achievedstability in benefitindexation,contribution
                   govemancestructureand supervisioncapacity, improve       basedynamics, and contributionrates,throughlegal
                   fiduciary standards, and introducemore flexibility inthe amendmentsto specifythe mediumtermdirections ofkey
                   investmentregime; enactingConsolidatedCode for           pensionparameters.
                   implementingmulti-pillar reform; and enacting
                   regulationsfor transparent'prompt transfer of
                   contributionsto pensionfunds.

Socialassistance   Improvedefficiency of social assistance                  Continuedimprovementin effectivenessof social
effectiveness       administrationand increasedshare of funds               assistance,throughadjustment of winter energybenefits
                    channeledto poorest20% householdsbetween2001            programinthe light of energytariff increases,and increase
                   and2003 throughintroductionofwelfareto work for          ineligibility thresholds ofthe GMI, especially for
                   GMI and increasedeligibility thresholdfor vulnerable     vulnerablegroups to better cover basic needs andfurther
                   households,and full centralizationof financingofmost     improvetargeting.
                    social assistancebenefits; adoptionof adjustedwinter
                    energybenefitsprograminlight of energy tariff
                    increases; meanstesting for child allowances.




                                                                   4

8.    The government has nearly completed its privatization program, and large
infrastructure state owned enterprises (SOEs) have been privatized. First, PAL-3 has
supported the near completion o f the program for divesting non-infrastructure SOEs, and more
than 80 percent o f the SOEs in which the government had majority control in 2002 have been
sold or liquidated; most o f the companies in which the government has minority shares have also
been divested. Following the significant restructuring o f the energy and telecommunications
sectors under the earlier PALs, PAL-3 has supported the successful completion o f the long-
awaited privatizations o f large SOEs in the energy and telecommunications sectors - particularly
the seven electricity distribution companies* and the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company
(BTC). Seven district heating companies (compared to the original target o f five) have been sold
and more sales are ongoing. Reflecting the advanced stage o f the privatization program,
Bulgaria's performance in large scale privatization is now on a par with the best performing
transition countrie~.~

9.    The restructuring of the energy sector has been largely completed, and energy prices
are now at cost recoverylevels. Withthe July 1,2004 increases inelectricity and district heating
tariffs for household consumers on average o f 10 percent (bringingcumulative increases over the
PALs to 52 percent for electricity and 33 percent for district heating respectively), residential
energy prices are now set at cost recovery levels. Cross-subsidies for electricity between industry
and households have been eliminated and public subsidies to the district heating sector have been
eliminated (from approximately 0.67 percent o f GDP in 2002). Together with the institutional,
pricing and regulatory reforms and the vastly improved legislation established under previous
PALs, this has resultedinsubstantial private sector entry. These actions are likely to contribute to
further reductions beyond the 9 percent reduction in energy intensity o f GDP between 2001 and
2003. The approval o f a plan to further restructure the National Electricity Company and to split
its power trading and transmission activities will further foster competition in the electricity
market.

10. Continued restructuring of the railways has supported reduced subsidy levels and
improved financial sustainability. Services and networks have been rationalized: after stopping
the railway operation o f 200 km o f lines under PAL-2, the government adopted and has begun to
implement under PAL-3 a decision to terminate services on and close a total o f about 250 km o f
uneconomic lines, and under PAL-3 nearly 120 passenger services (9 percent o f total) were
terminated. The railway companies also continuedto reduce staff, bringingcumulative reductions
to 13 percent under the PALs. The first annual PSC (Public Service Contract) was signed under
PAL-3 between the government and the railway operating company, providing financial
discipline and increasing the pressure to close uneconomic lines and terminate excluded loss-
making passenger services, and thus to reduce operating deficits. Finally, under PAL-3, track
access charges were adjusted to remove all cross-subsidization between passenger and freight
charges.

11. PAL-3 supports further deregulation,particularly of business entry. PAL-3 supports the
enactment o f legislation to enable businesses to use a single identification number for purposes
related to registration for tax and social security payments. In addition, it supports government
adoption o f a strategyhbmission o f legislation to take judges out o f registration. In addition to
further simplifyingbusiness entry, taking judges out o f registration will significantly reduce the
delays associated with resolving commercial disputes by releasing judges from routine
administrative processes.

* The proceeds from the sale of the electricity distribution companies reached Euro 693 million and far
exceeded expectations.
  This is based on the EBRD transition indicators scores. In the 2004 EBRD Transition Report, Bulgaria's
index o f large scale privatization was increased to 4, bringing it on a par with the Czech Republic, the
Slovak Republic, and Estonia.


                                                     5

12. PAL-3 has supported a significant expansion in efforts to improve service delivery in
front line government offices and agencies. Legislation andrules were enacted that institute one
stop shop contact support for significant new FDIto improve services for foreign investors. The
govemment also rolled out its one stop shop service delivery pilots to over half o f local
administrations. The replication o f Transport and Trade Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE)
efforts at agreed border crossing points and internal customs offices will enhance service delivery
incustoms offices.

13. The civil service i s becoming competitive and merit based, and under PAL-3
competitive recruitment has been entrenched in the civil service. In 2004, 100 percent o f
newly recruited civil servants were appointed through external competitive recruitment, under the
provisions o f the legislation enacted under PAL-2. To ensure quality recruitment, the Council o f
Ministers i s establishing a commission with the responsibility o f holding appointment
competitions for senior civil servants. Inaddition, under PAL-3, civil service pay was made more
competitive with the private sector and compression in pay was reduced. PAL-3 also completed
the introduction o f performance related pay and career advancement. Finally, PAL-3 supports the
submission to the National Assembly o f legislative amendments needed to depoliticize the civil
service, and to clarify the role of political cabinets and guarantee the merit based appointment o f
directors o f agencies.

14. The government continued to improve accountability and transparency in the civil
service. Under PAL-3, the government has adopted code o f ethics for civil servants, to improve
administrative procedures, reduce inappropriate discretion on the part o f civil servants, and clarify
accountability arrangements. Inaddition, PAL-3 has seen a significant expansion o f information
across government, in particular through the declassification o f documents to make them
available to the public.

15. Alternative mechanisms for the resolution of commercial disputes outside courts are
being introduced and the administrative justice system strengthened. Under PAL-3, the
adoption o f the Law on Mediation strengthens mechanisms for the resolution o f commercial
disputes. To strengthen the administrativejustice system, a new Administrative Procedural Code
has been submitted to the National Assembly.

16. Policies for increasing access for children from poor families and ethnic minorities to
quality education have been strengthened. To enable children from ethnic minorities
(particularly Roma children) to attend better quality schools, an updated strategy and action plan
supports desegregation. The government has established a fund to support the integration of
ethnic minorities. Building on efforts under earlier PALSto increase incentives for school
attendance for children from poor families and to enable them to receive good quality education,
the government has further strengthened its social benefits. In addition, a new National Program
was adopted by Parliament, providing free textbooks to all primary school children, introducing
school feeding in primary schools, and providing transportation to enable children from remote
rural schools to attend quality schools.

17. Public Health Programs have been strengthened, and efficiency in the delivery of in-
patient care services is being improved. To further reduce the incidence o f tuberculosis, to
increase immunization rates for children, and to reduce the incidence o f tobacco-related health
risks, the govemment has increased the share o f the Ministry o f Health's (MOH's) operating
budget going to National Health Programs has adopted legislation to earmark a share o f the
excise tax rate from tobacco to fund National Health Programs, and has increased excise tax rates
for tobacco resulting in higher prices (and therefore lower consumption) o f tobacco products. It
has also increased funding for national health programs, and adopted legislation to increase
tobacco control and regulate consumption in public places. In addition, under PAL-3, the


                                                   6

government has begun to implement its hospital restructuring strategy to improve efficiency in
the delivery o f in-patient care services. It has expandedthe output based financing mechanism for
inpatient care and has begun to restructure MOH and municipal hospitals.

18. The first stage of pension reform has been completed, and PAL-3 has contributed to
the increased stability and robustness of the system for old age security. The medium term
directions o f key pension parameters - contribution rates and benefit indexation rules -have now
been specified in an amended Social Insurance Code in order to avoid the need to revisit these
parameters every year within the framework o f the Budget Law.                This will increase its
predictability for beneficiaries, contributors, investors, and public finances, and thus will
contribute to the robustness and sustainability o f the multi-pillar pension system. The
specification o f the contribution rate provides stability inlabor taxation. The contribution rate for
the second pillar i s expected to rise according to a defined schedule to 5 percent in 2007, a
threshold that i s considered a minimum to render the second pillar viable. Similarly, the
specification o f the benefit indexation formula in multi-year legislation protects it from
uncertainties and political interference while providing the predictability needed for pensioners
and public finances.

19. An important start has been made to reduce misuse of disabilitybenefits and fraud in
their administrationand to institutea systemthat will provideflexiblebenefits to integrate
the disabled into labor markets and society. First, amendments to the Social Insurance Code
have been enacted to prohibit the award o f disability pensions to individuals over retirement age,
bringing disability pensions inline with international practice while reducing misuse. Second, the
new Health Act strengthens the role o f the National Social Security institute in the disability
assessment process and provides for reprimanding doctors for fraud in the medical assessment o f
disability. Third, the Integration of People with Disabilities Act and its implementing regulations
introduce a social assessment in addition to a medical assessment, to determine options for
rehabilitation and integration and to determine non-pension benefits based on need.

20. In addition, a number of important actions under PAL-3 provide the necessary
foundation for continuing the future reform agenda in several areas, includingthe social
areas. These actions include: the completion o f functional reviews and the identification o f
opportunities for outsourcing and rationalization across the government; improved public
expenditure management processes (including the introduction o f a medium term fiscal
framework, the expansion o f program budgeting innearly half o f all ministries, the introduction
o f accountability for results, and the improved management o f capital expenditures); the adoption
o f a "National Program for the Modernization o f Bulgarian Education" as the conceptual
underpinning for a comprehensive and ambitious reform program in education; the approval o f a
national pharmaceutical policy and progress on development of a strategy for the fiscal
sustainability o f the National Health Insurance Fund and for the introduction o f voluntary health
insurance; the completion of the legislative amendments to make the deinstitutionalization o f
children a measure o f last resort; the development o f standards and regulations guiding the
provision o f social services; and the preparation o f road maps for the restructuring o f all child
care institutions.

                   B. RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS PROSPECTS       AND

Backgroundand RecentEconomicDevelopments

21. The early years of transition were marked by slow and unsustained reform efforts?
The preceding decade was marked by massive external borrowing, stop-go stabilization policies,

  See Bulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reform, The World Bank, 2003, and
Bulgaria: TheDual Challenge of Transition and Accession, The World Bank, 2001.


                                                    7

    and a slow pace o f structural reforms.             Fueled by a failure to establish market discipline,
    widespread rent-seeking, and the prevalence o f soft budget constraints among enterprises, banks,
    and the govemment budget, Bulgaria's problems culminated in a severe economic and financial
    crisis in 1996-97, resulting in a cumulative decline o f GDP by about 14 percent, a sharp decline
    in per capita income, and an increase in poverty. After several months o f chaos involving a
    hyperinflation episode, the collapse o f the banking sector, and a major foreign exchange crisis,
    Bulgaria adopted inJuly 1997 a Currency Board Arrangement (CBA).

    22. Bulgaria responded aggressivelyto the 1996-97 crisis. Following the general elections o f
    April 1997 and the adoption o f the CBA, Bulgaria began implementing conservative fiscal
    policies and accelerated the implementation o f structural reforms. The wide-ranging structural
    program included implementation o f reforms in the social, agriculture, enterprise and banking
    sectors, and the liberalization o f prices and trade. By December 1999, when Bulgaria was invited
    to start negotiationstowards EUmembership, its economy was largely stabilized, and growth and
    per capita income had begun to recover. This improved performance took place in a difficult
    external environment marked by turmoil in international markets, unfavorable commodity price
    developments, and trade disruptions associated with the Kosovo crisis.

                           Table 2: SelectedEconomic Indicators, 1996-2004

                             1996     1997     1998     11999 '    2000     2001    12002     2003     2004    2001-2003       I

I
 GNI per capita (Atlas                                                                     I


 method, US$)               1,210     1,200    1,270     1,450    11,580    1,630    1,790 , 2,130 12,690'~ 2,120'    1 2,130
                                                                           ~        ~


 Poverty Rate                5.5'      36                                   12.84



 Real GDP Growth (YO
 change)
                             -9.4 1 - 5 . 6     4.0       2.3      5.4      4.1      4.9      4.3                               ,
                                                                                                      15 7 p ~ 4.3    1  4.4
                                                                           ~                 ~


 CPI (e o.P., % change)     311.6     547.7     1.6       7.0      11.3     4.8       3.8     5.6      6.1     5.5       4.7
                                     ~

                                              I




 Total Expenditureand Net


 Overall Fiscal Balance (%
 of GDP)
                            -10.3      -1.2     1.3       0.2      -0.6     -0.6     -0.6    10.0 1     1.8   -0.9     , -0.7




    resumption of growth in the real sector and strengthened banking supervision, the rapid
    expansion of bank credit poses new challenges to banking supervision. Following the closure
    o f 17 banks, the consolidation o f a number o f banks, and the privatization o f almost all state-



                                                            8

owned banks, mainly to foreign investors, the banking system was put back on solid ground. The
Joint World Bank-IMF Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) review' concluded in 2001
that Bulgaria's banking system - which is the main component o f the financial system - was
generally well supervised, highly capitalized, and profitable. However, the legacy o f the deep
banlung crisis in 1996-97 led to a more conservative lending policy by banks, and a low deposit
base. As a result, bank intermediation remained low compared to other CEE countries, and the
non-bank financial sector continued to be underdeveloped. However, with the successive years
o f economic growth, credit expansion (especially in retail banking) has accelerated since 2001.
This has been dnven by higher deposit growth, lower international interest rates on bank deposits
abroad, and competition among commercial banks. In 2003 and 2004, real credit to the private
sector increased by more than 40 percent year-on-year. There are no signs as yet o f worsening
bank portfolios-prudential       indicators remain good as a result o f heightened supervision and
intense risk monitoring, while bank profits are increasing. In2004, the BNB introduced several
measures to contain credit growth, including the transfer o f all government deposits held with
commercial banks to the BulgarianNational Bank (BNB) and an expansion inthe coverage o f the
reserve requirements. Since these measures have been in effect for only a couple o f months, it is
early to assess their impact on credit growth. As with other countries at similar levels o f per
capita income, the non bank financial sector is underdeveloped.

24. The economic recovery and sustained growth have contributed to a reduction in
poverty (see Box 1). Real per capita incomes increased by 44 percent between 1997 and 2004.
Tracking the magnitude o f poverty reduction since 1997 i s complicatedby substantial changes in
relative prices associated with the 1997 hyperinflation and by changes in the design o f the
surveys for poverty measurement after 2001, but poverty levels have declined continuously.
Poverty fell significantly with the economic recovery between 1997 and 2002. According to one
measure:    the poverty rate fell by two-thirds between 1997 and 2001 as consumption levels
recovered from the shock o f the crisis. Althoughthe magnitude o f the decline may have been less
than two-thirds as a result o f high inflation rates, there was a notable improvement in living
standards with the recovery. Poverty continued to fall in the years o f sustained growth between
2001 and 2003, but the rate o f decline appears to have slowed. The most reliable comparable
estimates between these two years suggest that poverty fell from 24 percent in 2001 to 21.9
percent in 2003, driven by a significant fall in poverty in rural areas from 34.6 percent to 29.1
percent between the two years (see Box l).'             Despite these gains, per capita GDP in PPS
(purchasing power standard) was only 27 percent o f the average for the EU countries in 2003.
According to a forthcoming World Bank report, the poverty rate in Bulgaria i s 2.5 times that in
Hungary, and only 13 percent higher than that inPoland. On the other hand, poverty inBulgaria
is substantially lower than inRomania, and most South-Eastern Europe and CIS countries.8

25. Private sector development has been central in accelerating growth. The acceleration o f
privatization and the restructuring o f existing SOEs, together with improvements in the business
environment and the gradual decrease in the tax burden, contributed to the expansion o f the
private sector to 75 percent o f GDP in mid-2004 compared to 60 percent in 1996.9 From being

  A joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) mission visited Sofia in November
2001. An update o f the FSAP report was done incontext of the Fund's Article IV consultation mission in
March-April 2004.
 Based on a poverty line defined as two-thirds o f the 1997 average per capita consumption, deflated to
2001 prices, the mainpoverty line used inthe World Bank's 2002 Poverty Assessment.
'These   estimates o f poverty are based o n a different poverty line that reflects the cost o f meeting basic
nutritional and other essential needs. It provides a more reliable estimate o f absolute poverty.         The
relevance o f the poverty line derived in 1997 as a benchmark for analyzing poverty in2003 is doubtful.
`Growth, Poverty and Inequality in Europe and Central Asia. Comparisons here are based on poverty
headcounts using the international poverty line o f USs4.30 per person per day. Notable exceptions among
CIS countries where poverty i s lower than inBulgaria are Ukraine and Belarus.
 EBRDdata.


                                                      9

the country with the smallest private sector share o f GDP among CEE countries in 1996, by 2004
Bulgaria was behind on1 the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Hungary and Estonia."
share o f new enterprises which could spur growth and help the economy reach its full potential
                           4 ; '                                                                     The

increased from 41 percent o f total employment and 23 percent o f value added in 2000 to 47
percent and 27 percent, respectively, in 2003. However, this i s still lower than the share inmore
advanced CEE counties, where new enterprises accounted for more than 50 percent o f
employment and between 55 and 65 percent o f value added in 1997-98.

26. Persistently high unemployment has finally started to decline. At about 18 percent in
2000-02, the unemployment rate inBulgaria was one o f the highest inthe region. However, since
the beginning o f 2003 unemployment in Bulgaria has declined dramatically, averaging 12.7
percent in 2004. This decline has been a result o f an expansion in private sector employment
opportunities as well as active labor market programs.           Private sector em loyment has been
growing rapidly andjob creation by the private sector has begun to increase."        Inaddition, since
2003 the govemment has been implementing its major program From Social Assistance to
Securing Employment, which i s aimed at providing public sector jobs to approximately 100,000
long-term unemployed. The program appears to have contibuted to a reduction in the
unemployment rate in 2004 by nearly 2.5 percentage points. Despite this impressive decline,
unemployment remains high, especially in comparison to EU-15 countries. The employment rate
i s lowest among CEE counties, and labor force participation i s lower than in all other CEE
countries except Hungary. Long term unemployment, which is among the highest in CEE
countries, has been hovering around 60 percent.            Younger and lower skilled workers are
particularly likely to be unemployed.

27. The externalpositionhas remained under pressure,with the external current account
deficit remaininghigh in 2003 and 2004. The extemal current account deficit increased from
5.3 percent o f GDP in 2002 to 9.3 percent in 2003, and declined to an estimated 7.5 percent in
2004. A strong tourism sector, lower income payments and constantly growing remittances have
offset some o f the negative effects o f the expanding trade gap. In addition, strong FDI inflows
covered more than 135 percent o f the extemal current account deficit in2004. FDIinflows stood
at US$2.5 billion (10.1 percent o f GDP) in2004, with revenues from privatization accounting for
less than half o f FDIinflows. The conclusion o f several large privatization deals in 2004 (BTC
and five electricity distribution companies) contributed to the highest privatization revenues
registered to date. Foreign exchange reserves remained at a comfortable level, despite large debt
repayments and the buy-back o f the remaining Brady Discount Bonds (DISCS), and in December
2004 exceeded 6.8 billion and covered 6.1 months o f imports of goods and services. At the
same time, total extemal debt (public and private) has declined from 79 percent o f GDP in 2001
to about 63 percent at end-2004.I3




lo See EBRD Transition Report 2004 andTable 2.
   The share of small enterprises (with up to 50 workers) inemployment and value added is regardedas a
proxy for the share of new enterprises inthe economy. See Transition: The First Ten Years,Analysis and
Lessonsfor Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union, The World Bank, WashingtonD.C., 2002.
   The increase, particularlyin2003, can inpart be attributed to the introductionof mandatory registration
o f labor contracts, which may have resulted in surfacing some of the labor previously employed in the
informalsector. However,job creationby the private sector has also beenexpanding, especially intrade,
manufacturing, construction, andreal estate: over 145,000 newjobs were createdinend-2004comparedto
end-2003.
l3 The externaldebt to GDP ratio declinedsignificantlyowing to a series of debtbuybacks, debt exchanges,
limitednew borrowing and slow disbursement of projects inthe pipeline, as well as higher GDP growth
andexchange rate adjustments. Externaldebt ratios are basedonUS$ values.


                                                   10

                                                  Box 1: Poverty inBulgaria
Trends in Poverty. Living standards in Bulgaria have rebounded dramatically since the crisis in 1991. Per capita incomes
have increasedby 124 percent, from US$1,200 in 1997 to US$2,130 in2003 (GNI, Atlas method), with a 65 percent increase
between 2001 and 2004. Despite this, per capita GDP remains low compared to EU countries. In 2003, it was only 27
percent o f the average for the EU-25 countries.
As incomes have risen, the poverty rate has fallen. According to the World Bank's Poverty Assessment (2002), poverty fell
dramatically between 1997 and 2001. The report used a poverty line o f two-thirds o f 1997 average per capita consumption
and fixed it inreal terms. It found that the poverty rate fell from 36 percent in 1997 to about 12.8 percent in2001. The depth
and severity o f poverty also improved. Although the overall magnitude o f the decline in the poverty rate was likely to have
been lower, due to the potential for measurement error as a result o f the high inflation in 1997, living standards improved
notably since the crisis. Poverty measures for this period were based on the Bulgarian Integrated Household Surveys inthese
two years, conducted by the Gallup survey organization.
 Poverty estimates for 2003 are based on the new multi-topic household survey carried out by the government inNovember
2003.    The design o f the survey i s superior to the earlier surveys.    A casualty o f this, however, i s the loss o f direct
comparability o f poverty statistics after 2001. A recent paper by Tesliuc (2004) tries to address this problem, using state-of-
the-art econometric techniques to estimate trends in poverty since 2001. The study uses an absolute poverty line, which
represents the cost o f a bundle of essential commodities and defines as "poor" those whose consumption i s below the poverty
line. The poverty line is estimated to be 111.50 leva in 2003, while the extreme poverty line i s estimated at 60.25 leva. The
study reports that foodpoverty (a proxy for malnutrition) is virtually non-existent, and extreme poverty i s low, at 4.8 percent
o f the population. However, about one infive people inBulgaria (2 1.9 percent o f the population) have consumptionbelow a
level needed to meet basic needs. The poverty rate i s almost identical to that obtained from a relative poverty line equal to
two-thirds o f real per capita consumption.
The study also finds that poverty fell between 2001 and 2003. However, it fell from a higher level than previously believed,
particularly when an approach that measures the cost o f basic needs i s used. According to this report, poverty fell from 24
percent in 2001 to 21.9 percent in2003, driven primarily by a fall inpoverty inrural areas. Rural poverty fell due to a rise in
consumption aided by a slight fall in inequality. In contrast, urban poverty did not decline despite a rise in average
consumption, primarily due to an increase ininequality. Inequality inBulgaria in2003 (the gini coefficient o f consumption i s
0.285) is moderate, and lower than inmost countries inthe ECA region, but higher than inHungary, Belarus and Ukraine.
Who are thepoor? The updated profile o f poverty identifies the following key determinants o f the welfare o f households:
location, demographic characteristics, ethnicity, education, employment status, and gender.
      Thepoor are more likely to befound outside Sofia. The poverty rate inrural areas is 29.1 percent, compared to 18.7
     percent inurban areas. Welfare differences by location, however, become sharper when Sofia city is compared to other -
     urban or rural - areas. Eventaking into account the differences inthe characteristics (such as education, family size, etc.)
     between rural and urban households, the per capita consumption o f households living outside Sofia is 10-25 percent
      lower than that for households living inthe capital city.
     People living in large households with two or more children are more likely to be poor. Only a fifth o f the population
      live households with five or more members, but they account for about 41 percent o f the poor. People living in
      households with two or more children account for over a third o f the poor.
     Perhaps the strongest correlate of poverty is ethnicity. Over 80 percent o f Roma households are poor. Although they
      account for about 6 percent o f the population according to the survey, they account for over a fifth o f the poor. Per
      capita consumption ina Roma household is only half o f the consumptiono f a similar household o f Bulgarian origin,
     Human capital is a strong policy lever for reducing poverty. Over two-thirds o f the poor consist o f people living in
      households where the head has less than a high-school education. Per capita consumption is 30-35 percent higher in
      households where the head has completed high school or technical education and 45 percent higher when the head has
      completed university studies (relative to a household where the headhas only completed primaryeducation).
     Private entrepreneurs and employed individuals are relatively protected@om poverty. The poverty rate i s significantly
      lower inhouseholds headedby employers, the self-employed or employees, while the risk o f poverty is twice as highin
     households headedby the unemployedand inactive (other than pensioners) compared to the rest o f the population.
     Poverty is not gender neutral. The risk o f poverty i s slightly higher in households headed by women, usually single
     parent households. When differences in education, location and other characteristics are taken into account, per capita
      consumption inthese households i s 10 percent lower than inthose headed by men.

          28. Sound macroeconomic policies and continued progress in structural reforms are
          addressing current account imbalances and improving development prospects. Bulgaria's
          policy framework i s centered on the CBA and supported by a tight fiscal policy, a strict incomes
          policy and a broad agenda of structural reforms. Macroeconomic performance has been robust:
          Bulgaria has had a primary surplus o f 2-3 percent of GDP and a fiscal deficit o f less than 1


                                                                 11

percent o f GDP since 1999; the Fiscal Reserve Account (FRA) has remained at about 100 percent
o f next year's gross public debt service requirements; inflation has remained at single digit levels;
international reserves have remained at more than five months o f imports; and growth has been
between 4-5 percent per year.           Consolidated government debt, external and domestic, has
declined dramatically from over 100 percent in 1997 to below the Maastricht ~ r i t e r i o nand    ' ~ in
2004 it stood at 39 percent o f GDP.

29. Providedthe government maintains fiscal discipline, sustains a strict incomes policy,
and acceleratesstructuralreformsto securesustainedimprovementsincompetitiveness,the
CBA provides a stable nominal anchor and facilitates the political economy of reform.
Prudent macroeconomic policies and strong progress in the implementation o f structural reforms
-particularlyintheareasoflarge scaleprivatization, infrastructure andbanking-contributedto
improved economic performance in 2004 (see Figures 1 to 6).                     Bulgaria shows stronger
fundamentals in 2004 compared to 2003: despite slow growth in the EU and other economic
partners, Bulgaria's economic growth accelerated, the average inflation rate increased slightly but
end-of-period inflation declined, the unemployment rate reached five-year record lows, and
revenue over-performance in 2004 was among the highest in recent years. However, the high
external current account deficit and the rapidly growing domestic credit are increasing the
vulnerability to risks. To respondto the deterioration o f the external current account balance, the
government agreed with the Fundunder the current Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)I5 to save most
o f the revenue over-performance and achieve at least a balanced budget in 2004 instead o f the
budgeted 0.7 percent overall fiscal deficit. This target has been over-performed and the fiscal
accounts closed in surplus o f 1.8 percent o f GDP. In addition, to limit further credit expansion
and safeguard the health o f the financial system, the BNB has undertaken several measures,
including expanding the coverage o f reserve requirements, transferring government deposits held
at commercial banks to the BNB, and reducing the proportion o f cash invault that can be used to
fulfill reserverequirements.

30.   Significant but manageabledomestic and externalrisks exist. Domestic vulnerabilities
include degree o f effectiveness o f measures undertaken to address the rapid growth o f credit to
the non-government sector, failure to enhance domestic market flexibility consistent with the
CBA, and the electoral cycle potential pressures on the budget. The pressures on the external
position are high, supported by accelerated bank credit to the private sector. A failure to attract
sufficient FDI or to carry out the remaining privatization program would put the projected
external financing at risk, which would require additional adjustment to ensure that debt levels
continued to decline.        Moreover, Bulgaria's external accounts are sensitive to three key
parameters: (i)   continued increase in oil prices, (ii)higher interest rates, and (iii) protracted
                                                                                              a
recovery inEUeconomies that are the destination o f over 50 percent o f Bulgarian exports and the
origin o f more than half o f the FDI inflows. However, the achievements to date, the continuing
good performance in 2004, and the measures in place to address domestic and external
vulnerabilities mitigate these risks.




l4This is according to Article 104 o fthe Treaty Establishing the EuropeanCommunity signed inMaastricht
in 1992. The convergence criterion on debt refers to the ratio of gross government debt to GDP, which
must not exceed 60 percent at the end o f the preceding financial year or shall be approaching the reference
value at a satisfactory pace.
l5A 25-month SBA was approved on August 6, 2004, with the intent that this precautionary arrangement
would serve as an exit from IMF programengagement.


                                                     12

                              Figures 1-6: MacroeconomicIndicators, 1995-2004



                 Figure 1.Real GDP

  16
  11 --                                                                          Figure 2. CPI Inflation
                       (% change)                                               (% change, annual average)




                                                        -- -9
                                                        -  -14




              Figure3. Fiscal Balance                                    Figure4. CurrentAccount Balance
                      (Yo of GDP)                                                        (% of GDP)
                                                                    l21




   -21 J                                                           -12 .I

        1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004               1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004




I        Figure5. RegisteredUnemployment                                           Figure6. FDIInflows
                                                                                       (US$ million)

       6o 1                                         T 2o            3000

   -58
   U                                                  18                                                               n
                                                                                                                      2488
       50                                                al         2500
                                                      164                                                         2097

   -                                                     L
       40                                             144
                                                        -           2000

                                                        L
   $
   I                                                                1500
       30                                             12s0
   s                                                  10            1000
       20                                             8
                                                                     500

                                                                       0
                                                                          995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
                                                                                UTotal           0Fromprivatization


 Sources: National Statistical Institute, Bulgarian National Ba ;, Ministry o f Finance (GFS2001), Employment Agency and
 World Bank staff estimates.



                                                              13

MediumTermProspects

31. The medium term macroeconomic framework16centered on the CBA i s expected to
support rapid and sustainable economic growth in the coming years. The medium term
outlook" envisages a robust growth o f more than 5 percent per annum, a gradual narrowing o f the
external current account deficit, and a reduction in debt to GDP ratios. Growth would be driven
by a continuous rise in investment and improved export performance in line with the expected
recovery in external demand from the EU and the increased competitiveness o f Bulgarian goods
on international markets. Consistent with the planned upgrades in the infrastructure sectors and
the continued progress towards EU accession, investment i s likely to grow at a higher speed and
reach at least 25 percent of GDP in 2007. Despite the continuing slow growth among Bulgaria's
main trade partners to date macroeconomic performance has been good and is expected to
improve further in2005-07 as EU economies may recover and the cumulative effect o f structural
reforms inBulgaria will become more visible.

32. FDI inflowscontinue to be the primarysource of balance of paymentsfinancing. As in
2003, Bulgaria continued to attract significant FDI inflows, providing sufficient coverage o f the
external current account deficit. In2003, FDI inflows exceeded US$1.4 billion, or more than 7
percent o f GDP, and preliminary data point to US$2.5 billion in 2004. About US$1.2 billion
were receipts from privatization, mainly o f BTC and some electricity distribution companies, and
the rest were greenfield investments and investments in already existing companies. Advanced
privatization in the energy sector, together with additional investments, i s helping Bulgaria
meeting its financing needs. The returns from FDI in the country have been growing and a
further boost in investments i s possible ifthe remaining structural and institutional impediments
are addressed, including weaknesses in the business climate, public administration, and the
judicial system.

33. Internationalfinancial markets have responded favorably to the achievements of the
reform program. In the summer of 2004, Standard and Poor's and Fitch Ratings upgraded
Bulgaria's long-term foreign currency debt to investment grade rating (having assigned
investment grade rating to its long-term local currency debt a year earlier).        Spreads o f Brady
bonds and Euro bonds are continuing to decline - inDecember 2003 they went down by 115 and
146 basis points, respectively, compared to end-2002. InAugust 2004, Euro bond spreads went
down further by 135 basis points compared to end-2003. Active debt management policies in
2001,2002, and 2004 through debt buybacks and exchanges, have reduced debt levels and have
reduced the interest and exchange rate risks of the debt portfolio. In July 2004 the govemment
bought back the remaining DISC Brady bonds in the amount o f US$680 million and freed up
collateral o f some U S 2 8 3 million. As a result, external public debt fell to 33.7 percent o f GDP
in2004, down from 63.7 percent at end-2001, with an improved currency and interest structure o f
the public debt. This has contributed to the substantial decline intotal external debt to 63 percent
o f GDP from 79 percent in2001.

34. The current course of fiscal policy is basically appropriate to ensure macroeconomic
stability, growth and poverty reduction in the medium term. The main fiscal challenge,
however, i s to work towards an improved allocation o f expenditures" to achieve a balanced
budget in the medium term, while lowering the overall tax burden - especially payroll taxes - to
boost investment and employment and reduce external indebtedness. To date, fiscal adjustment


l6 The medium-term economic framework presented in Annex 3 i s based on projections as of end-
September 2004.
" See Bulgaria: Requestfor Stand-By Arrangement-Staf          Report, The International Monetary Fund,
August 2004.
`* For more details, see Bulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and Directions for Reform, The World Bank,
August 2002.


                                                   14

has been made possible by revenue expansion rather than by expenditure rationalization. Only
recently, revenues have started to decline, reflecting the gradual reduction o f the tax burden. To
limit revenue losses from future tax cuts, the tax administration needs to be overhauled and tax
compliance improved. A decade long neglect o f investment in basic infrastructure has been
exacerbated by several years o f declining capital and maintenance expenditures which have borne
the brunt o f expenditure cuts. Going forward, fiscal adjustment will need to be achieved through
relying heavily on expenditure rationalization, which needs to precede reductions in the tax
burden to safeguard fiscal sustainability. In addition, the fiscal strategy will have to be adjusted
in response to the decline inprivatization revenues     -a main source o f fiscal financing as the  -
privatizationprogram i s completed.




construction.    The study produced a                 0Maintenance and operations Capital expenditure
                                                                                                         ~




36. Improving the allocation of public expenditure requires creating a more efficient and
transparent expenditure management system with enough flexibility to adjust quickly and
efficiently to macroeconomic shocks. The central key pressure points on the fiscal position are
inhealth care, education, and the social protection system. The recent Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review (PEIR) for Bulgaria2' demonstrated the need to improve allocations to
address the issues o f overcapacity in health and education and to improve the targeting o f social
protection programs, which constitute about one-third o f total public spending. Although
important steps have begun to be taken since 2002, particularly to improve the financial position
of the pension system, to improve the targeting o f social assistance, and to address issues o f
overcapacity in health care, the agenda is still unfinished while the ageing population and rising
health care costs pose continuous challenges.

37. In addition, increased efficiency in expenditure management would require the
overhaul of intergovernmental relations. The government approval in mid-2002 o f the Fiscal


''Bulgaria:
l9Datafor 1999to 2003 are actuals; 2004 data are preliminary;and 2005 data are budgeted.
            Public Expenditure Issues and Directionsfor Reform, The World Bank, 2003.


                                                  15

Decentralization Programfor 2002-05 i s a step forward in that direction. The program aims to
reduce the fiscal pressures arising from arrears in municipal finances and improve efficiency in
service delivery. A recent World Bank study,2' identifies the need for a sustainable solution to
the issue o f unfunded state mandates and municipal arrears; the need to provide improved
incentives to deal with overcapacity in municipal schools and to establish more effective
mechanisms to raise resources for investment; and the desirability o f granting greater control to
municipalities over revenues inthe long term.

38. Independent reviews indicate that challenges remain in improving public sector
governance. Bulgaria is characterized as a country with high levels o f state capture and a
medium level o f administrative                    The areas most affected have been customs, health
services, tax administration, higher education, and the courts. The government has put together
and begun to implement comprehensive strategies and action plans for: (i)           modernizing state
administration; (ii) reforming the judicial system; and (iii)   fighting corruption. Two commissions
have been set up to combat corruption - a standing committee o f the National Assembly and an
inter-ministry operational commission.           A number o f measures have been undertaken to
strengthen control within the Tax Administration, the Customs Agency, the MOI, and the
National Security Service, and, more recently, the Judiciary.

39. With the external financing provided by the PALs, it will be possible to phase in
structural reforms while softening the impact of adjustment, protecting the poor, and
safeguarding social cohesion. Without the PAL financing, policy dialogue and support, the
momentum for accelerating structural reforms is less likely to be sustained and the costs o f
adjustment could weigh heavily on vulnerable segments o f the population. While international
reserves remain at a comfortable level to support macroeconomic stability in the context o f the
CBA, in view o f the high investment needs facing the country prior to EU accession Bulgaria
may continue to rely on low cost official creditors' support, to allow it to start addressing a
decade o f neglected maintenance o f the physical assets needed to support private sector-led
growth and to soften the impact on vulnerable groups. Continuing Bank financing under the
series o f PALs o f up to US$l50 million (equivalent) per year over the three year program period
o f the current CAS provides the fiscal and balance o f payments support needed for the
government to be able to implement this broad reformprogram.

Creditworthiness

40. Creditworthiness Indicators. Prudent fiscal policies, the implementation o f structural
reforms, and an active debt management strategy have resulted in improvement in the
creditworthiness indicators (see Annex 4). These improvements resulted in an upgrade o f the
credit risk o f foreign currency debt to investment grade rating inthe summer o f 2004 by Standard
and Poor's and Fitch Ratings. Total debt outstanding and disbursed as a share o f GDP declined
from 100 percent in 1997 to around 63 percent in 2004. This share i s expected to decline to
below 50 percent by 2007. Similarly, total debt service as a share o f exports o f goods and
services i s expected to decline from around 13 percent in 2002 to 8 percent in 2005, and then
increase to about 10 percent as a result o f increased repayments on remaining Brady and Euro
bonds.23 The share o f debt service to IBRD to total public debt service i s expected to decline to
around 6 percent in 2005 and to increase to around 10 percent in 2006 and 2007. The share of
Bulgaria's portfolio in IBRD's portfolio i s expected to remain under 1.5 percent up to 2006. In
addition, spreads on Bulgaria's Brady bonds have been narrowing since the June 2001 election,
reflecting prudent policies and markets' expectations o f a more active debt management strategy.
The collapse o f the CBA in Argentina and the difficulties in Turkey have not had any significant


2`See Bulgaria: Issues in Intergovernmental Relations, The World Bank, January, 2004.
22Anticorruption in Transition 2, The World Bank, 2004.
23Projections do not take into account the early repayment of Brady bonds inJanuary 2005.


                                                     16

impact on this trend. There have been no discemable contagion effects in Bulgaria's domestic
financial markets, and the financial fundamentals and indicators o f external vulnerability remain
comfortable.

41. IBRD exposure will remain manageable in the base case scenario of the CAS. IBRD
debt service i s projected to remain at below 1 percent o f exports, and to increase from 7 to 8
percent of public debt service duringthe CAS period. The ratio o f preferred creditor debt service
to public debt service has remained above 50 percent with a sharp decline in 2004 and 2005 due
to increased repayments to private creditors as a result o f the Brady buy-back by the government
inJuly 2004. The preferredcreditor debt service ratio is projectedto decline to about 46 percent
in 2007. These high ratios are partly the result o f debt restructuring in the mid-l990s, which
stretched out Bulgaria's public debt repayments to private creditors over decades with the
issuance o f Brady bonds and o f limited commercial bank lending until the strong recovery
following the 1997 reforms. The completion o f the substantial adjustment lending as envisaged
in the CAS would reduce the Bank's headroom in Bulgaria, especially for further adjustment
loans beyond FY05. However, since the three PALs - designed to support a robust reform
program that has a high probability o f succeeding - are the cornerstones o f the overall Bank
strategy, high adjustment lending i s justified. T o monitor the Bank's exposure and associated
risks, a set o f additional triggers for processing PAL-3 were identified inthe CAS (see Box 2).
These triggers have been met, confirming that Bulgaria has substantially improved its standing as
a result o f reforms under the first two PALs, and that the downside risks of overall economic
performance are low.

                               Box 2: Status of Additional PAL-3 Triggers
The Country Assistance Strategy for Bulgaria, discussed by the Board on May 9, 2002, adopted additional
triggers for processing PAL-3. The specific triggers - indicators o f macroeconomic outcomes and structural
improvements in the economy -were designed to confirm that prior reforms have been sufficiently absorbed and
that the probability o f a downside risk in economic performance is decreasing. They were articulated as a set o f
negative developments that could trigger a reconsideration o f proceeding with the presentation o f PAL-3 to the
Board. As shown below, Bulgaria's macroeconomic and structural performance in the CAS period more than
justifies proceeding to the high levels o f adjustment lending envisaged in the CAS.
          Trigger: Material deviation from the downward trend inthe total public debt to GDP ratio as projected
          inthe CAS. Outcome: Total public debtto GDP ratio declined beyondCAS projections (projected to be
          41.7 percent for 2005 compared to 49.2 percent projectedin CAS).
          Trigger: Lack o f improvement in the spreads on Bulgaria's sovereign borrowing vis-a-vis countries
          with similar risk rating, or deterioration in its own risk rating: Outcome: Spreads of Brady and Euro
          bonds are continuing to decline - in December 2003 they went down by 115 and 146 basis points,
          respectively, compared to end-2002. In August 2004 Euro bond spreads went down further by 135
          basis points compared to end-2003.
          Trigger: Material deviation from the improving trend in the fiscal balance projected in the
          govemment's medium term program, reaching fiscal balance by 2005. Outcome: Fiscal balance to
          GDP ratio in 2001 was -0.6 percent, 2002: -0.6 percent, 2003: 0.0 percent, 2004: 1.8 percent.
          Trigger: Material slowdown inthe present trend o f increasing Small and Medium Enterprises' (SMEs)
          share o f total employment: Outcome: SME share o f total employment increased continuously from 50.6
          percent in 2000 to 56.7 percent in2003.
          Trigger: Inadequate progress in reducing arrears in tax payments, social insurance contributions, and
          energy bill payments as set out in the govemment's program. Outcome: Establishment o f the National
          Revenue Agency (NRA)consolidating tax and social security revenue collection being supported by the
          Bank`s project Revenue Administration Reform Project (RARP) currently under implementation and
          showing satisfactory progress. Under the RARP, the NRA will have operational a modem Revenue
          Management System which includes inter-alia the capacity to actively manage arrears. In line with
          similar reformsin other countries, the NRA i s expected to be fully operational  2006.




                                                          17

Addressing Poverty

42. As poverty has fallen, the nature of poverty has evolved and deep poverty persists
among certain vulnerable groups. The profile o f poverty in Bulgaria has come to resemble
poverty patterns inother CEE countries more closely, with an increasing concentration o f poverty
among distinct and identifiable groups in the population (see Box 1). Rural residents, children,
ethnic minorities, most notably the Roma, the less educated, and the unemployed constitute the
"pockets" of deep poverty. Sustaining or increasing the growth performance i s still necessary for
poverty reduction, but there i s considerable scope for obtaining a further reduction in poverty
through targeted interventions (e.g., for the Roma). While the concentration o f poverty among
specific groups indicates that targeting interventions to address poverty will be easier, these
pockets o f chronic poverty are more resilient and harder to reach than shallower poverty linked to
transient declines in incomes. Further, as in other countries o f the region, poverty among poor
Roma communities i s multi-dimensional and i s compounded by social exclusion and
discrimination withinthe society.

43. Social protection reforms have helped the poor cope with transition shocks, and their
effectiveness has continued to improve. Bulgaria has continuously strengthened its social
protection programs. The previous government introduced a new multi-pillar pension system,
strengthened unemployment insurance, and strengthened and consolidated means-tested social
benefits programs to better reach the most vulnerable individuals and households. The current
government has continued the implementation o f pension reform and has further redesigned
social assistance. In particular, it has introduced the welfare to work agenda, strengthened
financing and administration, redesigned the family benefits program as a targeted program tied
to school attendance, and strengthened individual programs (e.g., energy benefits) to mitigate the
impact o f structural reforms. As a result, Bulgaria today has an extensive but relatively effective
and well performing net o f social protectionprograms. The poverty impact o f social protectioni s
significant: the poverty rate could increase by up to 87 percent inthe absence o f social protection.
Although the primary impact comes through the pension system, which i s not explicitly designed
to reduce poverty, social assistance programs have a non-negligible impact on poverty.24 Despite
these achievements, the social protection system faces medium to longer term challenges: low
coverage and contribution levels into the pension system pose challenges to its ability to
effectively reduce poverty inthe longer term, and the poverty impact o f social assistance could be
further increased through substantially higher benefit levels (although combined with further
strengthening o f targeting). Increasing the effectiveness o f active labor market programs i s also
critical to ensuring the integration o f the long term unemployed into the labor market and
reducing the likelihood o f their return to social assistance.

44. Gaps in access to both health and education are being reduced but are still real for
vulnerable groups.         Although enrollment rates increased after the crisis, health indicators
showed little improvement until 2000. More recently, Bulgaria has seen impressive increases in
enrollment from already high levels, while most health indicators have also begun to improve.
According to official data, Bulgaria appears to be on track for meeting the MDGs (see Box 3). It
i s important to note that recent improvements have included gains among the most
disadvantaged: gaps in access to health care and education, which increased during the crisis,
appear to be narrowing, especially since 2001. Despite this, gaps in attendance rates in education
inBulgaria-between rich and poor, andrural and urban children -remain among the highest in


24 Tesliuc (2005), "Social Protection and Poverty Reduction in Bulgaria- An Update," provides an update
on the performance o f social protection programs in Bulgaria. Without pensions, the poverty rate among
pensioners could be as much as 2.3 times higher (increasing from 23.4 percent to 54.2 percent). Among
social assistance recipients, the poverty rate could increase by 11 percent without social assistance.
Programs such as the GMI, although they have a small impact on the overall poverty rate, have a
significant impact o n the severity of poverty.


                                                   18

     the ECA region. In2003, children from the richest income quintile were 17 percent more likely to
     attend primary school and 2.2 times more likely to attend secondary school.25 As with education,
     financial barriers (formal and informal out-of-pocket costs) and differences in the quality o f
     services accessed are in part responsible for different health care outcomes among poor and
     disadvantaged groups.26 Minorities, and especially Roma populations, are more likely to fall
     through the cracks in the education and health systems, and their lower access, as has been
     mentioned, is compounded by social exclusion and discrimination. Disparities in the ability to
     invest in human capital, unless addressed, will increase the differences in future welfare and will
     result inlower poverty reduction.

                          Box 3: The Government's MediumTermProgramandthe MDGs

 GovernmentObjectives                         Baseline           Updateon                          2005 Target                 2015 Target
                                              Data               Status
1Eradicate extremepoverty
      percent ofpopulation                    7.9 (2001)        n.a.                                  3.2                      1.5
      below US$2.15per day                                                                                                                      I
      percent ofpopulationunable              24.0% (2001)      21.9% (2003)
      to meetbasic needs                                                                                                                        I
1Achieve universal education
      percentnet enrollmentrate-              98.5 (2001-02)     100.3 (2003-04)                      97-98                    100
      primary school                                                                                                                            I
      percentnet enrollmentrate- 83.1(2001-02)                    84.2 (2003-04)                      86-90                    100
      lower secondaryschool
      percentnet enrollmentrate-              68.3 (2001-02)      77.1 (2003-04)                      73-75                    90
      secondaryschool                                                                                                                           I

                                                                                                      18                       16



 other diseases
      Tuberculosisincidence (new              48 (2001)         47.8 (2002)                           40                       26
      cases per 100,000)                                        41.7 (2003)

      Polio immunizationrate                  94.4 (2000)       94 (2002)                             98                       100
      (percent of childrenunder                                 96 (2003)
      two)

                                                                                                                                                 I
      Infant mortalityrate per 1000           14.4 (2001)       13.3 (2002)                           13                       9
      live births                                               12.3 (2003)

 Ensure environmental
 sustainability
      GDP per unit of energy use              568 (1997)         na.                                  653                      751
      (PPP US$ per kg of oil
~




I                                                                                                                                     ~~




~Notes: Changes in surveydesign do not permit an updateof the poverty indicator as originally specified. Trends in povertysince 2001 are based
1                                                                                                                                                 ~
 on a different poverty line that represents the cost of meetingbasic needs in 2003. The value of this line in 2003 was 111.4 levaper personper
                                                                                                                                                  ~




1month.
~
 Sources: National Statistical Instituteand World Bank; UNICEF.


     25   Growth, Poverty and Inequality in Europe and Central Asia, The World Bank (forthcoming). This
     information is based on household survey data. Disparities between groups have fallen with the recent
     increases in attendance between 2001 and 2003. In 2001, attendance in primary schools was 57 percent
     higher for childrenfrom the richest quintiles and insecondary schools it was 3.1 times higher.
     26 Health indicators, such as child and matemal mortality and incidence                   of infectious diseases, are higher in
     disadvantaged rural regions and among ethnic minorities. Report on the Health of the Nation at the turn of
     the 21'' Centuy,Ministry o f Health, June 2004.


                                                                        19

                                   c. THEREFORMPROGRAM

Objectives of the Government's MediumTermProgram

45. The incoming government in mid-2001 identified two objectives: (i) sustaining
economic growth and (ii)reducing poverty and creating employment, both key to EU
membership. The agenda o f the previous government hadbeen driven more by dealing with the
economic and financial crisis of 1996-97, restoring the focus on macroeconomic stabilization,
accelerating the much delayed privatization program, establishing a sound fiscal regime to
support the CBA by cutting expenditures and closing non-viable SOEs, and launching the reform
o f the social protection system.27 The reform program o f the current government builds on the
gains o f the previous five years while marking a strategic shift in emphasis towards promoting
growth and reducingpoverty through increasing investment and productivity and buildinghuman
capital. The updated LDP i s attached as Annex 5. Thegovernment has articulated thefollowing
as the key outcomes of its program: (i) achieve average annual GDP growth rates of 4.5 to 5.0
percent during 2002-05; (ii) reduce the poverty rate by half by 2005 compared to the rate in
2001; and (iii) reduce the unemployment rate to 12-14percent in 2005 compared to 17.5percent
in 2001.     The program components that address the strengthening of market institutions,
modernizing the public administration, fighting corruption, reforming the judicial system, and
increasing social inclusion are all critical to the EUaccession agenda.

46. The strategy for attaining the sustained growth and poverty reduction objectives has
two main themes. First, the government intends to use private initiative as the main engine of
growth. For this reason, the government program focuses on creating an investment climate that
encourages private investment and enhances productivity. This requires redefining and upgrading
the role and capabilities o f the public sector, establishing credible institutions such as the
judiciary, and puttinginplace a stable legal and regulatory environment. Second, the government
is taking steps to ensure that the population is empowered to participate in future growth. The
government i s working towards reforms inthe education and health sectors to improve the quality
o f services, while improving the efficiency o f these large public expenditures. The aim i s to
develop human capital capable of adapting to an increasingly dynamic work environment, which
i s especially important in view of the greater competition expected from EU countries. In
addition, there i s recognition that poverty reduction policies need to be tailored to reach certain
groups that have not benefited from the recent increase in welfare. The government realizes that
growth alone will not lift certain groups out o f poverty.

47. To implement its growth and poverty reduction strategy, the government has built its
mediumterm reformprogramon five pillars:

     Sustaining structural reforms in the enterprise sector with emphasis on the completion o f
     privatization and the restructuring o f the energy, railway, telecommunications, and water
     sectors;

     Establishing a market-friendly business environment, focusing on reducing entry constraints,
     accelerating exits, securing deregulation and reducing regulatory costs, improving the
     delivery o f public services to business, improving the competitive environment, and
     improving labor market policies;




27 Since 1997, the Bank has supported structural reforms with a Critical Imports Rehabilitation Loan, a
Social ProtectionAdjustment Loan, two Finance and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans (FESALs), two
Agriculture Structural Adjustment Loans (ASALs), and an Environmental Protection Structural Adjustment
Loan(EPSAL).


                                                  20

0   Deepening the Jinancial sector, improving the legal framework for lending, completing
    banking reform, and developingfinancial markets;

0   Improvingpublic sector governance, strengthening public administrationcapacity, improving
    service delivery, reducing corruption, strengthening accountability and transparency,
    strengthening public expenditure management,           and increasing the efficiency        and
    effectiveness o f the judicial system; and

e   Investing in human capital and strengthening social programs, improving service delivery in
    education and health, continuing pension reforms, increasing social assistance effectiveness,
    providing for better integration o f the disabled, and reducing the institutionalization of
    children.
Cross-cutting Themes: Growth, Poverty and Governance

48. The five program pillars complement each other. All five pillars contribute to the
growth agenda. Pillars Ito I11provide for rationalizing the role o f the state in the economy
through: (i)  completing privatization; (ii)improving the efficiency o f energy, water and district
heating and securing greater private sector participation inthese sectors; (iii)creating conditions
to attract FDI and allowing for the significant growth o f SMEs through deregulation; (iv)
advancing tax and customs reform; (v) reducing subsidies, (e.g., to the railways) so as to free up
resources to invest in infrastructure that i s critical to supporting investment; (vi) pursuing
accounting reform; (vii) accelerating insolvency reform; (viii) strengthening the new regulatory
agencies in telecommunications, energy, and financial services; (ix) maintaining labor market
flexibility; and (x) strengthening banking system effectiveness. Pillar IV supports this agenda
through strengthening mechanisms to improve governance, modernizing the civil service and
administrative structure, rebuilding interactions between the private sector and public officials;
increasing the effectiveness o f capital investments; accelerating judicial reform; and seeking to
reduce corruption (thereby reducing the rate o f return investors require for investment projects).
Pillar V seeks to create a longer-term capability to respond to the needs o f a dynamic market
economy through supporting investments inhuman capital.

49. All five pillars contribute to reducing poverty and social exclusion. Pillars Ito I11are
designed to achieve growth with equity. Restructuring and privatization in these pillars have
been accompanied by measures to reduce negative social impacts through strengthening o f social
assistance programs inPillar V and active labor market programs in Pillar 11. In addition specific
interventions (e.g. energy tariff increases) have been accompanied by measures to protect the
poor. Pension reform i s pursued though Pillars I11and V. Pillar IV contributes to this agenda
through supporting measures to reduce corruption, including corruption in education and health
(which bears disproportionately on the poor); to rebuild interactions between the citizens and
public officials as well as between the private and public sectors; to improve public sector service
delivery; and to increase the effectiveness o f the judiciary.     Pillar V provides explicitly for
improving quality with equity in education and health; protecting the disabled from
discrimination and allowing them full access to education and work opportunities; achieving de-
institutionalization; improving coverage and targeting in social assistance; and reducing
disincentives for work.

50. All five pillars contribute to improving governance. Pillar Iprovides for transparency in
privatization. Pillar I1focuses on deregulation, on reducing administrative discretion, developing
an effective administrative court system, strengthening competition, reducing corruption in
insolvency proceedings, and advancing tax and customs reform. Pillar I11 aims to strengthen
corporate governance, to improve the governance o f pension funds, and to introduce greater
transparency through the introduction o f international accounting standards, and provides for
enactment of the money laundering law. Pillar IV tackles a number o f specific issues relating to
public sector accountability and transparency, such as: strengthening the arrangements for


                                                 21

conflict o f interest and freedom o f information; improving public administration through
implementing reforms to secure merit and depoliticization; strengthening administrative structure;
and requiring the publication o f service standards and client charters. Pillar IV also focuses on
accelerating judicial reforms through strengthening the accountability fi-amework for judges and
other magistrates while keeping their independence, and on improving court administration as
well as alternative dispute resolution systems.     Pillar IV also supports the strengthening o f
accountability and transparency in the public expenditure management system.                   The
government's Anticorruption Programfor 2004-2005 provided a focus for tackling corruption in
education and health and inthejudiciary, to complement the earlier focus on tax and customs and
the Ministry of Interior. Pillar V aims to tackle some accountability and transparency issues in
the delivery of education and health services, through improved transparency in financing
arrangements, strengthened quality assurance and the accreditation o f institutions, and improved
governance structures. Increased transparency in public finances for social programs have also
been supported in Pillar V through the increased predictability and fiscal transparency in the
pension system and the improved administration o f disability and social assistance benefits.

51. The PALs also support the government's EU accession and integrationagenda, which
i s the major driving force for reforms in Bulgaria. The PAL program complements and
supports the government's efforts in building a functioning market economy and creating the
capacity to cope with the competitive pressures and market forces within the EU in the medium
term. The achievement o f the PAL program's objective o f building a dynamic and competitive
economy through stable macroeconomic performance, deep structural reforms, sustainable
private sector-led growth, an improved investment climate, and appropriate investments inhuman
capital, to some extent determines the degree to which Bulgaria will be able to benefit rapidly
from EU accession. The PAL program also complements the EU accession-related efforts to
strengthen and develop the ability o f the public administration andjudicial system to implement
and enforce the acquis communautaire.

52. The various reformpillars are at differentstages of implementation. Structural reforms
for the most part (in particular, many in Pillars Iand 111) are at a more advanced stage, having
been the focus as well o f earlier Bank support before the PAL program, particularly under
FESAL 1 and 2. Table 3 provides a more nuanaced picture o f the progress made within the areas
o f structural reforms supported by Pillars 1-111while indicating, even within these, an unfinished
agenda, particularly in the areas o f business environment, infrastructure and non-bank financial
institutions. In contrast, reforms under many o f the other pillars are at a much earlier stage and
have only gained momentum under one o f the three PALs. For example, the policy, institutional
and legislative basis for the reforms to improve public sector governance was put in place only
under PAL-2, and implementation begins under PAL-3. Many o f the desired outcomes o f this
program will be achieved only over the period 2005-07. Similarly, reforms in health care and
education are at a much earlier stage o f design or implementation, and many of the desired
outcomes will only be achieved beginningin2007. These are wholly realistic time-scales and are
fully in line with the practice and experience o f Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) counties. When developing and launching such reforms in the context of
a three year time-scale, as i s the case with the present PAL program, care needs to be taken in
evaluating the impact o f these reforms over a short-term time-scale.

53. The effectiveness of the above program is underpinned by the maintenance of sound
macroeconomic policies. The government is committed to the successful completion o f its
precautionary Stand-By Arrangement with the IMF, approved in August 2004. The program
represents a continuation o f Bulgaria's solid track record in macroeconomic policies, including:
(i) maintaining the C B A at least until accession to the EMU; (ii)  implementing a flexible fiscal
policy and a disciplined incomes policy to safeguard stability and growth; and (iii)   undertaking
measures to address the challenge o f rapid growth o f credit to the non-government sector. The
FirstReview ofthe programhas been completedinMarcho f 2005.


                                                 22

Pillar I:Sustaining Structural Reforms

54. The government program in Pillar I aims to rationalize the role of the state by
privatizing activities that can be performed by the private sector. The government also aims
to improve the efficiency of energy services and prepare the energy sector for EU accession; to
improve the efficiency of the railway sector and secure a decrease in railway subsidies; and to
liberalize the telecommunications market, modernize the water                     sector,  and mitigate
environmentalrisks.

                           Table 3: Progress Made in Structural Reforms




55. The current privatization program has focused on infrastructure SOEs, and PAL-3 has
seen the successful completion of the privatization of large infrastructure SOEs in
telecommunications and energy. The PAL program has supported the implementation o f the
government's privatization program which i s now nearing completion.28 First, to improve
transparency, reduce corruption, and accelerate the privatizationprocess, the legal framework was
improved, including through the enactment of the new Law on Privatization and Post
Privatization Control and the restructuring o f the privatization agency (under PAL-1). Second,
the PAL program and PAL-3 have supported the near completion o f the program for divesting
non-infrastructure SOEs: more than 80 percent of the remaining SOEs in which the government
had majority control in 2002 have been sold or liquidated, and most o f the companies in which
the government has minority shares have also been dive~ted.~'            Third, following the significant
restructuring o f the energy and telecommunication sectors under the earlier PALS, PAL-3 has
seen the successful completion of the long-awaitedprivatizations o f large SOEs in the energy and
telecommunications sectors - particularly the seven electricity distribution companies and the
Bulgarian Telecommunications Company (BTC). As a result o f these privatizations and
privatization in shipbuilding under PAL-2, the EBRD recently upgraded Bulgaria's transition


28Privatization o f the Banking and Insurance sectors has also largely beencompleted (see Pillar 111).
29 InSeptember 2002, at the start of the PAL program, the remaining SOEs inwhich the government had
majority control numbered 440, of which one-quarter were considered large, mainly in the utilities and
manufacturing sectors.     There were another 1800 non-infrastructure privatized enterprises where the
government had minority shares. By January 2005, there were only 90 SOEs in which the government has
majority shares, and the government had minority shares in only 653 companies (309 o f these minority
packages were under restitution claim arrangements). Nearly 1,225 minority packages were sold between
January 2004 and February 28,2005 alone.


                                                     23

indicator for large scale privatization (Table 3). The few remaining large privatizations to be
completed are mainly in the infrastructure sector, and include those o f the large thermal power
stations, initiated under PAL-3, while the only large non-infrastructure privatization that remains
to be completed i s B~lgartabak.~'    By mid- 2004, theprivate sector share of GDP had reached 75
percent (comparable to the share in Poland, and approaching those in Hungary and the Slovak
Republic - Figure 8). By January 2005 there were only 90 remaining SOEs with government
majority shares; thus the government's objective that by end-2005 the only remaining state
enterprises would be those listed in Annex 6A (thus reducing the size of thepublic sector to about
25-30percent of GDP) has substantially been met.

                       Figure8: PrivateSector Share of GDPmid-2004 (YO)



               1   80                                                                   I
                   70
                   60
                   50
                   40                                                                   I
                   30

                                                                                        I
               1   10
                    0




              Source: EBRD, TransitionReports2002 and 2004.

56. The energy sector has been fundamentally overhauled, reducing Bulgaria's energy
intensitg' and enabling the private sector to assume an increasing share of commercial
risks (Box 4). First, energy priceshavebeen rationalized, and with the July 1, 2004, increases in
electricity and district heatingtariffs for household consumers, prices are now set at cost recovery
levels. All cross-subsidies in electricity between industryand households and all public subsidies
to the district heating sector have been eliminated. PAL-3 has further prepared the basis for the
complete removal o f the cross-subsidies within the household consumer group for electricity and
heat.32.Second, the legal and regulatory framework has been improved through the enactment o f
a new Energy Act consistent with EU energy directives, the adoption o f key sector regulations
and market opening measures, and the upgrading o f the institutional capacity o f the State Energy
Regulatory Commission (SERC). Third, electricity distribution and generation companies were
spun off from the former monopoly electricity company (NEK), and (under PAL-3) a plan was
approved for the further restructuringo f NEKby legally separating its transmission business from
power trading, thereby improving competitive conditions in the electricity market. Fourth, the


30 The government has been working on the implementation of this privatization but changing market
conditions have provided challenges and only partial privatization has been achieved. Specifically, as o f
mid-March, five of the twelve tobacco processing companies had been sold. Progress i s also being made
with the restructuring and liquidation of companies originally identified as non-saleable: five cigarette
manufacturing companies are being restructured as companies dealing with tobacco processingonly, while
a sixth company i s currently under liquidation. The government attempted but was unable to successfidly
complete a deal for the remaining four companies of the holding - the four most attractive cigarette
manufacturing companies.
3'In2001, Bulgariahadthe highestenergyintensityratio inthe ECAregion.
32 These cross-subsidies were introduced as a temporary social protection measure during the period of
large price adjustments (see Box 4). A plan for their removal has been prepared, and the related
adjustments to the energy subsidy program to ensure adequate protectionfor low income customers will be
worked out and implementedincooperationwiththe Ministry o f Labor and Social Protection.


                                                   24

government has successfully implemented its district heating strategy, which called for
commercialization in the short term and private sector entry in the medium term. Fifth, the
combined effect o f these measures has led to private sector entry beyond the original
expectations: the electricity distribution sector has finally been completely privatized and the
privatization o f three power generation companies i s under way, seven district heating companies
have been privatized with several more expected in the near future, and the gas sector has been
opened to the private sector with licenses being awarded in six o f the eight gas distribution
regions. Thegovernment is on trackfor achieving its aim to reduce energy intensity of GDP by 15
percent in 2005. Bulgaria's energy intensity of GDP was reduced by 9percent in 2003 compared
to the level in 2001.

57. In the railway sector the government's restructuring program i s increasing efficiency
and financial sustainability, improving staff productivity, and decreasing subsidies to the
sector.    First, organizational and institutional changes included the establishment o f a new
railway operating company (BDZ) and a new railway infrastructure state enterprise (NCRI) under
PAL-1, and the full accounting separation o f the freight and passenger operating services under
PAL-3. In addition, market rules were established to enable the entry o f private firms and the
eventual privatization o f the railway operating company. Second, the network and services have
been significantly rationalized through the closure o f non-economic lines and the termination o f
loss-making passenger services. Under PAL-2, about 200 km o f uneconomic lines were closed.
Under PAL-3, the Council o f Ministers adopted a decision to enable the N C R I to terminate
services on and close about 250 km o f uneconomic lines, and the N C R I is implementing this
decision. Under PAL-3, the government has also terminated 120 passenger services (over 9
percent o f the total). Third, the railway labor force was reduced by 13 percent at end-2004
compared to the level at end-2001. Fourth, under PAL-3, track access charges have been adjusted
to remove all cross-subsidization between passenger and freight services effective as o f October
1, 2004. Fifth, cost recovery has been increased in inter-city passenger services by a further 20
percent under PAL-3, bringing it to over 90 percent.        Sixth, under PAL-3 a Public Service
Contract (PSC) i s now agreed annually between the government and the railway operating
company BDZ EAD, providing financial discipline and increasing the pressure to close non-
economic lines and terminate loss-malung passenger services that are not covered inthe PSC, and
thus reducing the operating deficit o f the railway companies. Moving forward, the unfinished
agenda includes achieving balance between PSC costs and payments by securing further
efficiencies, and addressing the increasing VAT obligations o f the passenger company associated
with higher track access charges. Inaddition, a new railway law is under preparationto facilitate
private sector entry. The government's targets for financial sustainability established for end-
2005 had been met by end-2004: operating subsidies (excluding funds for investment) fell from
0.5percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.2percent; for the operating company and railway infrastructure
company, respectively, financial working ratios were close to 100 percent (not including
government subsidies). The debt service ratio for freight operations was 2.9 times. The
government's objective is to reduce this to 1.5 times by end-2005. Railway productivity increased
by 12percent in line with the government's aim to achieve by end-2005, increases in the overall
railway laborproductivity of I 4percent.




                                                 25

               Box 4: The PALProgramandthe SuccessfulTransformation ofthe Energy Sector
I                                                                                                                                  I
 At the start of the PAL program, while substantial progress had been made in the privatization o f the non-infrastructure
 sectors, the environment for growth remained handicapped by the largely state-owned and inefficient infrastructure sector
 in which the policy and regulatory environment was not conducive to private sector entry. Bulgaria faced several
 challenges inrestructuring these sectors and inpreparing them for EU accession. Inparticular, delays inrestructuring the
 energy sector, andparticularly inimproving supply efficiency and setting economic prices, hadbeen costly interms o f lost
 industrial output and consumer welfare, and a loss o f confidence regarding whether existing services could be made cost-
 effective and affordable.   The P A L has successhlly supported a fundamental overhaul in the energy and district heating
 sector, resulting inthe improved efficiency o f energy services.

 The government began in earnest to undertake significant reforms o f the energy sector beginning inJuly 2002 with the               1
 adoption o f a comprehensive strategy for reform. The PAL program has supported key elements o f the policy and pricing
 reform that have created a favorable environment for, and have resulted in, private sector participationbeyond the original
 expectations. PAL-1 provided the framework, while the subsequent PALSsupported the specific actions needed to
 implement the strategy:                                                                                                           I
 Gradual removal of the cross-subsidy between industry and household electricity tar@, and of public subsidies to the
 district heating sector. In 2002, SERC (the sector regulator) approved a three-year plan for the gradual increase o f the
 residential electricity and district heating tariff. Electricity prices were increasedby 20 percent inmid-2002, 15 percent in
 mid-2003, and 10 percent in mid-2004. District heating price increases o f 10 percent annually contributed to a dramatic
 reduction in subsidies to district heating companies (from 50 million leva in 2001 to 45 million leva in 2003 and to 24.3
`million leva in2004) and to their complete elimination by 2005.

  Addressing the social impact of price adjustments by structuring energy tar^ increases in a way that minimized the 1
 impact on the poor - through the creation o f a first block ("social")         tariffs, while strengthening the social assistance
 provided through the existing winter energy benefits program inresponse to the anticipated price increases.

 Adoption of new legislation consistent with the EU energy and gas directives thatprovides for market liberalization. With            `
 technical support from the World Bank and other donors a new Energy Law was adopted inDecember 2003. A series o f
 secondary legislative/regulatory and market opening measures were adopted by SERC. The institutional capacity o f SERC
 has been significantly upgraded.

 Additional legislative changes in support of the implementation of the District Heating Strategy. Reforms inthe district
 heating sector have made possible the revival o f the sector and have benefited the economy by enabling district heating -
 by far the most economical way o f providing heat to highlyurbanized areas - to be the primary form o f heating inurban
 areas. The implementation o f policy reforms under the P A L as laid out inthe 2002 strategy have included ( inaddition to
 tariff and subsidy adjustments) legislative changes to make the installation o f heat regulators and cost allocators mandatory
 at the apartment level. This has strengthened demand side management, enabling consumers to control their consumption
 and to be billed accordingly; together with the steady increase in tariffs, this has resulted in initial energy savings of
 approximately 15 percent at the apartment level. The govemment has also replaced old and inefficient substations inmany
 district heating companies, resulting in a reduction in their heat losses. These reforms have been complemented by
 investment support from the Bank and other donors through a major rehabilitationproject for the Sofia and Pernik district
 heating companies - which account for more than 50 percent o f the district heating customer base.

 Private Sector Participation. A s a result o f the substantially improved policy and regulatory basis o f the sectors, investor
 interest in the energy sector has increased. The government has successhlly completed the privatization o f all seven
 electricity distribution companies (with larger than expected revenues).          The next stage o f privatization o f the power
 generation companies has started. Privatization o f 7 o f the 21 district heating companies i s also successfully completed,          ,1
1and several other privatizations are underway. The gas market has also been opened to the private sector.

         58. In the telecommunications sector, markets have been liberalized consistent with the
         government's EU accession agreement. First, the legal and regulatory framework has been
         improved substantially through the establishment o f the Communications Regulation
         Commission (CRC) and its institutional upgrading, and through the enactment o f a new
         Telecommunications Law in September 2003 consistent with best practice and with the
         government's EU accession agreement.                 The new law reinforces the CRC's independence,
         transparency, and accountability, secures the liberalization o f the telecommunications market, and


                                                                  26

ensures effective and fair competition. Second, the government has completed the long awaited
privatization of BTC and abolished its monopoly over the provision o f fixed voice
telecommunications services, leased lines and trans-border voice transmissions.
Third, to continue to satisfy EUaccession commitments, which entail a migration from the acquis
communautaire 2000 to the acquis communautaire 2002, PAL-3 supports, inter alia the adoption
of an updated sector policy consistent with the new acquis, progress in the digtalization o f the
backbone network, and efforts towards promulgating legislation providing for the legal
recognition o f electronic contracts and personal data protection in electronic communications.
The transition to the new acquis will mean further revisions to the existing legal and regulatory
framework as well as the institutions created by them. At end 2004, the degree of digitalization of
the transfer network was 94 percent, of transit exchanges 79 percent, and of fixed telephone
network subscribers 33 percent, reflecting substantial progress towards the government's aim to
achieve, by end 2005, a degree of the digitalization of transfer network of 100percent, of transit
exchanges, 82 percent, and offixed telephone network subscribers, 46percent. Thegovernment's
target that, by end-2005, 94 percent of households would have telecommunications services has
already been met.

59. In the water sector, the government's new modernization program envisions stronger
public private partnershipsto address the problems of inefficiency, water losses, and lack of
investment.      Under PAL-2 the government adopted a new Water Sector Strategy, which
emphasizes the importance o f public/ private partnerships to provide adequate water service for
all citizens, to implement wastewater treatment in line with EU directives, and to rehabilitate and
construct water and sewerage networks to improve efficiency and reduce health risks. The
worldwide decline inprivate support for investment inthe water and wastewater sector has posed
challenges to private sector entry. An additional challenge to private sector participationhas been
the need to coordinate private sector entry with the flow o f EU grant funds in view o f the
difficulties in channeling EU grant funds to utilities with concessions or management contracts -
a primary reason for the delays in developing a publidprivate model inthe water and wastewater
utilities in Vama and Shumen. The government recognizes the importance o f establishing the
appropriate institutional and regulatory framework and has developed a framework for a water
regulator (water supply and sewage services) to ensure that quality services can be provided at
affordable prices. A new Water Regulatory Law was enacted inJanuary, 2005. Moving forward,
policy efforts inthe water and wastewater sectors in2005 and beyond33will focus on establishing
the regulatory and institutional changes required - including strengthening the capacity o f the
Water Regulator and establishing an appropriate tariff structure          - and on establishing a suitable
financing   framework for the sector. The government's aim is to secure a reduction in the
operating ratios (the ratio of operating costs including depreciation to total revenues) of water
companies to 86percent by the end of 2005. As of November 2004, the operating ratio of water
companies was 88percent.

60. The government has maintained its momentum in environmental reforms to meet the
challenges of EU accession compliance with the environmental acquis. Environmental laws
and regulations continue to be harmonized with those o f the EU, and Bulgaria has almost fully
transposed the acquis in the environment.              The capacity o f environmental institutions and
agencies to enforce environmental laws and regulations i s being strengthened.                      A new
Environmental Protection Act was adopted which i s fully harmonized with the EU acquis. The
regulation on Environmental Impact Assessment was issued under PAL-2. The government is
also implementing the provisions o f the EU Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC)
Directive, and extending the issuance o f integrated permits. It i s implementing its environment


33 These efforts will be guided by the findings o f the recent Water Sector Report preparedby the Bank. The
government plans to use this to finalize the investment needs and priorities for the sector in 2005-15. This
report also provides the basis for continued discussions with the EU, with other donors, and with the private
sector.


                                                       27

strategy and action plan, harmonizing water management legislation, and i s implementing a new
strategy for biodiversity. The government's aim by end-2005 is to have issued 20 integrated
environmental permits under the IPPC directive and by end-2007 it is to have issuedpermits to
all enterprises covered by the IPPC directive.

Pillar11:Establishinga Market-friendlyBusinessEnvironment

61. While the liquidationof loss-makingSOEs andthe implementation of the privatization
program have increased productivity, future growth will depend on the emergence of
dynamic privatesector enterprises. Experience inadvancedtransition economies indicates that
gains from further labor shedding and other defensive restructuring measures will taper o f f over
time. New sources o f growth will have to come from increased investment by the private sector
in both new and existing enterprises. The government program aims to expand private sector
activity through attracting FDI and developing a dynamic SME sector. To achieve this, the
govemment program inPillar I1aims to reduce entry constraints and regulatory costs, to improve
business service delivery by government offices, to ensure competition and functioning markets,
to maintain flexibility in the labor market, and to improve the efficiency o f the insolvency
regime.34 Figure 9 shows that FDI flows in Bulgaria in recent years (2000-2003) compares
favorably with those in new EU member states. In addition, over two-thirds o f FDI flows to
Bulgaria come from EU member states - which i s above the average for the new states and
Bulgaria, Croatia and Romania- thus reflecting deeper than the average levels o f integration with
EUmarkets. Average annual FDI inflows have been about US1.6 billion ayear between 2001
and 2004; the SME share in employment increased to 56.7percent in 2003from 50.6percent in
2000; the SME share in value added increased to 36.2 percent in 2003 from 29.5 percent in
2000; theprivate sector share of GDP increasedfrom nearly 70percent in 2001, to 75percent in
2003. This reflects substantial progress towards the government's aim to attract, with these
reforms, FDI at an average annual rate of USI.0 billion (of which greenJield FDI is expected to
be at least 50 percent) during 2002-05; to increase the share of SMEs3' in value added and
employment to at least 50percent by 2005; to increase theprivate sector share of GDP to at least
70 percent by 2005; and to increase total factor productivity by 2.5 percent annually during
2002-05.

      Figure9: ForeignDirectInvestment inBulgariaand other CentralandEuropean
                         Countries, 2000-03 (net FDIas a percent of GDP)


                 6.0
                ~




                 5.0

                1
                '3.0                                                                              I
                 2.0
                 1.o
                 0.0




               Notes: Data for Bulgaria for 2000-03, while that for other countries is from 1995-2003
               Source: Bank staff estimates presentedinBulgaria'sCEM: Policies for Growth,
               forthcoming, 2005, The World Bank.


34The PAL-3 agenda in this pillar has been informed by the World Bank's Private Sector Assessment,
"Doing Business inBulgaria: Progress, Prospects and Potential for Growth," completed inJune 2004.
35Defined as enterprises with 100 or fewer employees.


                                                      28

62. The government is streamlining the regulatory regimes that increase transaction costs
for the private sector and is institutionalizing measures to ensure that a clear rationale, a
proper cost-benefit analysis and an appropriate consultation underpin the introduction of
new regulatory regimes. First, good progress has been made in implementing the program to
eliminate or modi@ centrally managed regulatory regimes for licensing, permission and
registration, and about 80 percent o f the program developed in 2002 has been ~ o m p l e t e d .An  ~ ~
Intemet-based public register o f all current operative regulatory regimes i s in place which
represents an important step forward in creating a transparent and accessible approach to
regulatory activities. Second, to control the development o f future licensing regimes, the Law on
Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control on Economic Activities was enacted under
PAL-2, codifying the principles that are to underpin the introduction o f new regimes. Under PAL-
3, specific guidelines have been issued to central administrative and municipal bodies on the
design o fproposednew regulatoryregimes, including the identification and measurement o f costs
and benefits, and the establishment o f a process by which new regimes evolve appropriately from
concept to implementation. Moving forward, continuous implementation o f deregulation remains
a top priority for Bulgaria, and options to institutionalize the deregulatory efforts through the
establishment of an independent oversight agency will need to be considered. The government
expects, by end-2005, to see the elimination or modijication of 50 percent of the regulatory
regimes (issued by central authorities) that existed at mid-2002, and, by 2005, a reduction in
regulatory costs compared to the baseline figure of 25 percent of management time spent on
regulatory compliance in 2002.'~

63. The government is implementing reforms in business registration aimed at significantly
easing business entry as well as increasing judicial efficiency. First, PAL-3 supports the
enactment o f a new Law on the Bulstat Register to enable businesses to use the "Bulstat" number
as the single-identification number for purposes related to registration including registration, for
tax and social security payments. Second, under PAL-3 the Council o f Ministers has adopted a
new strategy to modernize the registration o f all legal entities (including businesses) and o f
property, and to establish a modem electronic administrative registration system inBulgaria. The
strategy lays out the stages for the transformation o f the registration system from one that relies
on the courts to a non-judicial administrative process, and for the establishment o f a unified
national register.    Modernization o f business registration will reduce transactions costs for
businesses.     In addition, the release of judges from routine administrative procedures will
significantly reduce the delays associated with the resolution o f commercial disputes (Box 5).
Through the implementation o f its new strategy, the government i s preparing to meet by January
1, 2007, the EU directive on company law that envisions the obligatory implementation o f
electronic registration. By end-2006, the number of procedures requiredfor business registration
are expected to decrease to about 6 from I1 in 2004), and the time required to register a
business is expected to be reduced by about two-thirds from 32 days in 2004 to about I O days).
By end-2006, there will be a reduction in the time taken to resolve commercial disputesfrom 440
days in January 2004.

64. In parallel with regulatory reform, the government has continued to implement
reforms to front line government offices and agencies (including customs offices and
services for foreign investors) to improve service delivery and cost effectiveness.                First,
institutional development initiatives are ongoing in Customs, the Tax Administration Office, the


36At the start o fthe PALprogramthe Inter-ministerial Working Group for the Optimization o f Regulatory
Regimes reviewed 360 centrally-managed regulatory regimes (for licensing, permission, and registration)
and approved a program eliminating 71 and modifying 121o f these regimes.
37 As measured in the Administrative and Regulatory Costs Surveys (ARCS). The survey completed in
March 2004 did not show a reduction relative to 2002, inpart because the full impact o f the measures had
not yet been felt.


                                                  29

Real Estate Registry Office, the National Social Security Institute (NSSI), and various regulatory
agencies such as the SERC and the CRC. Second, for the regulatory regimes that are considered
essential, the cost o f compliance i s being reduced by simplifying the administrative processes.
Simplification measures, initiated under PAL-2, in three sectors are ongoing. These sectors are
construction, tourism, and food processing, which together account for about 10 percent o f GDP
and are subject to a maze o f administrative requirements. In addition, enactments to the Health
Act under PAL-3 provide for a number o f simplified procedures in all sectors, including
requirements for business premises registration and inspection. Third, measures adopted at the
TTSFE pilot sites at agreed border crossing points and internal customs offices are being rolled
out. Under P A L 3 these measures include expedited procedures for the delivery o f containers
arriving at seaports, acceptance of advance declaration in inland customs offices, and increasing
precision in the process o f selection through uniform reporting and analysis o f the results o f
physical examinations. Further improvement o f services at the border will require continuedroll-
out, but also more effective cooperation between state agencies. Fourth, the National Revenue
Agency has been established and PAL-3 supports the development o f the Revenue Management
System. Finally, through the enactment of the Act on Encouraging of Investment and the rules for
its implementation, PAL-3 has supported the implementation o f one-stop-shop administrative
support for significant FDI. By 2004, customs revenues had increased by 44percent compared to
2001, and average border processing time at pilot sites had fallen, reflecting good progress
towards the government's objectives of achieving by end-2005 an increase in customs revenues
by 55 percent and a reduction in processing time at all border crossing points and internal
customs ofjces by 20percent in comparison with 2001.

65. The government has strengthened competition policies and i s                    improving the
effectiveness of the Commission for the Protection of Competition in the context of EU
accession.    First, to strengthen the effectiveness o f the Commission for the Protection o f
Competition (CPC), following the enactment o f amendments to the Law on the Protection of
Competition the government has continued to enhance the administrative capacity o f the CPC.
Second, the CPC has made good progress in the development and enforcement o f anti-trust
legislation, especially under PAL-3: the number o f antitrust decisions nearly doubled between
2003 and November 2004 (from 64 to 112) and progress i s also being made in competition
advocacy. Third, in the area o f state aid, the Law on State Aid enacted in 2002 ensures the
consistency o f intervention policies with the acquis communautaire. The legislative framework
for state aid was further strengthened through the adoption under PAL-3 o f the Rules for its
implementation, the amendment o f several pieces o f legislation with fiscal aid measures to align
these with the act, and a review and identification o f other legslation to eliminate the provision o f
implicit state aid. The CPC has also developed its state aid enforcement record, and it had
concluded 106 state aid cases by November 2004 compared to 49 in 2003. In line with its
commitments under the Second Agriculture Structural Adjustment Loan, A S A L 2, the
government has abstained from establishing an apcultural commodity market stabilization
facility, except for an intervention agency which i s required to implement the EU's Common
Agricultural Policy (CAP). Inparticular, PAL-3 supports amendments to the State and Wartime
Reserves Act and Grain Trade and Storage Act which will facilitate the change o f status o f the
State Reserves to a public institution subject to full public disclosure, and will limit its
interventions in the grain market to those necessary for grain rotation.           By end-2005 the
government hopes to have secured an increase in the competitiveness of the private sector
compared to theposition in 2002.




                                                 30

                                        Box 5: BusinessRegistrationinBulgaria

While business entry inBulgaria i s not the slowest by European standards, it is neither simple, nor fast, nor cheap. Also,
it does not properly address the public needs o f providing easy access to information and strengthening the corporate
governance system. The business registration system i s carried out by 29 courts, which i s increasingly out o f step with
good European practices. Bulgarian registration takes, on average, 30 days, o f which 21 days are spent inthe court. Over
40,000 new companies, partnerships and sole proprietors are registered annually, and about 26,000 revisions are made to
current registrations. Some 40 percent o f the time o f the 107 commercial judges i s spent reviewing and approving the
documents filed by companies. The available statistics are inconsistent and the court records differ significantly from
those o f Bulstat. Some private services maintain databases o f companies that, while they are valuable sources o f market
information, are o f no legal security and are perhaps incomplete. The registration system has been criticized for being
time-consuming, uncertain, and inconsistent across the country, not only inthe initial registration but inthe registration o f
amendments. It has become a highly profitable, although nontransparent, tax on business. Business registration has been
used as a system o f control rather than as an information system. Although registration i s essentially an administrative
task, inappropriate and unpredictable judge-intervention incompany decisions is not uncommon.

Business registration reform inBulgaria needs to be modernized to promote business entry, reduce the costs o f operation,
and free judges from routine procedures so that they can focus on commercial and insolvency cases. The view taken in
European directives i s that business registration i s an information disclosure service. Business registration in Europe has
evolved into an electronically accessible administrative process, away from the paper-driven judicial approaches such as
that used in Bulgaria today. The increase in efficiency is apparent: entrepreneurs in countries where registration i s a
judicial process spend 14 more days to start a business. Two dozen countries - from the Netherlands to Lithuania, from
Romania to Italy - have transferred business registration from a judicial to an administrative procedure since 2001. Inall
cases, the reforms have lowered the time neededto register new business.

                     Registration Duration (days)                   Approaches to BusinessRegistration Reform


               France                                             SingleID number            Take registration

              Turkey                                                                         out ofjudges' hands


               LaMa                                                 Belgium(2003reform)        Belgium
                                                                    Estonia (2002reform)       Denmark
            Lithuania                                               Finland                    Finland
             Romania                                                France                     Germany(but incourt)
                                                                    Latvia (2001reform)        Ireland
             Bulgana                                                Norway                     Italy
              Poland                                                Slovak Republic            Baltics
                                                                    Turkey (2003 reform)       the Netherlands
              Croatia                                                                          Norway

                     0   I O   20   30    40    50    60                                       Portugal
                                                                                               Spain
                                                                                               Sweden, and 70others

The recently developed government Strategy for Establishment o f a Central Register for Legal Entities and an Electronic
Registration Center o f the Republic o f Bulgaria is in line with this general reform trend. It supports the consolidation of
registration into a central electronic registry outside the courts, within the Ministry of Justice, to operate as a one-stop
shop for business registration o f all types. The biggest benefit from this reform is the reduction inthe delays associated
with commercial disputes. Such delays are recognized by the EU and foreign investors as the major constraint to
improvements in the business environment.' Just by making registration an administrative process, and relieving the
commercial judges o f the burden o f reviewing and approving documents related to business registration, the government
can reduce delays in commercial dispute resolution by 50 percent. This may cut as much as 8 months o f the current time
to resolve a simple debt dispute
'  See white papers by the EUand the Bulgarian International Business Association, bothpublished in2004.
Source: World Bank, "Doing Business in2005: Starting a Business."

        66. Government policies in the labor market aim to complement measures to improve the
        investment climate for the generation of productive private sector employment
        opportunities. To complement other Pillar I1 measures aimed at enhancing the creation of
        productive employment opportunities by the private sector, the government i s continuously
        reviewing and adapting its policies in the labor market - with a view to maintaining or increasing


                                                               31

flexibility while aligning them with the requirements o f EU accession. In addition, the
government is designing and strengthening policies and programs to enable the integration o f the
disadvantaged and long term unemployed into the labor market. First, amendments to the Labor
Code were enacted in 2004 inter alia to strengthen anti-discrimination provisions, thus providing
the legalbasis for eliminating discrimination inthe labor market (including discrimination against
minorities, who constitute a disproportionate share of the long term unemployed). Second, the
government is taking steps to address selected rigidities in its labor legislation. Amendments to
the Health Act, enacted under PAL-3, aim to reduce the incidence o f abuse o f sick leave
~ r o v i s i o n s . ~Under PAL-3 the government i s also encouraging a dialogue between social
                       ~
partners to address selected rigidities in its legislation - in particular, to increase the adaptability
of wages and to improve the flexibility o f working hours - although the dialogue has not been
without difficulties. In addition, drawing from the recommendations o f an ongoing review o f
institutions affecting the labor markets, the objective i s to adjust Bulgarian legislation and
regulations and to bringthem in line with international best pra~tice.~'Third, the government has
also continued to improve the effectiveness o f its employment services and its Active Labor
Market Policies (ALMPs). Regulatory barriers to the private provision o f employment services
have been removed, and the efficiency of public employment services i s being improved through
the introduction o f the one-stop-shop approach. Under PAL-3, the government i s also completing
its first intermediate net impact evaluation o f the major program "From Social Benefits to
Securing Employment," and i s taking measures to improve its effectiveness, including through
increasing the participation o f the private sector in the program. I n line with the government's
objectives, the unemployment ratefell4' from 19.8percent to 12percent between 2001 and 2004,
the employment rate increased from 50.9percent to 56.5percent between the third quarters of
2001 and 2004, the share of long term unemployedfell from 63.7percent in 2001 to 59.3percent
in 2004, and theyouth unemployment ratefell from 38.4 percent in the second quarter of 2001 to
25.8 percent in 2003; continued progress is needed to bring these rates closer to the average
levels in EU member states.

67. The government's initiatives to accelerate the insolvency process are facilitating the
exit of non-viable enterprises (Figure 10). First, amendments were introduced in 2003 to Part
IV of the Commercial Code to simplify insolvency procedures, to establish shorter and binding
deadlines for insolvency procedures, and to provide additional powers to creditors. Opportunities
for appeal were reduced.41 PAL-3 supports the development o f further amendments to the
Commercial Code to accelerate insolvency procedures, in particular through guaranteeing the
rights and independence o f trustees, and strengthened protection o f the rights o f private creditors.
Second, more stringent criteria for the licensing and dismissal o f trustees have been introduced,
and their monitoring and control by the Ministry o f Justice and the courts has been strengthened.
Third, an information and monitoring system has been introduced in all commercial departments
of the courts under PAL-3 which should make possible the close monitoring o f insolvency cases
and the timely identification o f the main bottlenecks to their resolution. Finally, institutional
reforms in the judiciary, discussed in Pillar IV, are intended to upgrade the skills and


38The aim i s to eventually contribute to a reducedburden on social security and to increase participation in
the formal labor force. Beyond the first day, sick leave payments are covered by the General Sickness and
Maternity Fundmanaged by the National Social Security Institute. Importantly, sick leave appears to be a
route to the disability pension for many older workers who have not yet reached pensionable age. In
addition to posing a burden on the social security system through disability pensions, the misuse o f
disability provisions contributes to significantly lower participation in the formal labor force, and thus to
lower contributions.
39 With technical assistance from the PHRD grant, the government has also begun work on a thorough
review o f Bulgarian labor regulation with a view to identifying further measures to bring these inline with
international best practice.
40 Labor market indicators reported here are based on Labor Force Surveys. The employment ratio i s an
a proximation for the population aged 15-64 years for comparability with EU-15 statistics.
4PThrough amendments to the Civil Procedure Code (See Pillar 111).


                                                     32

qualifications of execution judges and improve the efficiency o f court administration.             The
government has already made good progress (the average timefor resolving insolvency casesfell
by six months between 2003 and 2004) towards its aim of achieving a substantial reduction in the
average timefor resolving insolvency cases,from 3.8years in 2003, towards levelsfound in other
advanced transition economies.

                         Figure10: Closinga BusinessinBulgaria, 2003-04

 I            Time of insolvency (years)                          Costof insolvency (% of estate)
                                                       I                                             i
                                                         ~




                                                           1 0        18
                3.8                            1
   3 8

   3 6

   3 4

   3 2

     3
 i             2003                   2004       I                   2003                    2004    I

Source: World Bank, Doing Businessindicators.

Pillar111: Deepeningthe FinancialSystem

68. Bulgariahas completedthe agendafor bankingreform,and financial intermediationis
rapidlyincreasing. First,following the aggressive privatizationprogram in 1999-2001, Biochim
Bank and the State Savings Bank D S K were privatized under the PAL program in2003, Second,
the to complete the agenda for banking reform, the Bank Bankruptcy Law was enacted to improve
the exit process for insolvent and closed banks, and the supervision powers o f the Bulgarian
National Bank were strengthened to enable it to identify and investigate direct and indirect
owners of banks. Third, the legal and institutional framework for lending has been further
improved to encourage financial intermediation. The foreclosure provisions o f the Civil
Procedure Code were amended to help reduce delays in the enforcement o f valid claims,
amendments were enacted to the Law on Registered Pledges to increase secured lending.42
Financial reporting and auditing requirements in Bulgaria are currently in a period of transition
from compliance with national standards to compliance with International Financial Reporting

Directives and regulation^^^. The transition to full IFRS and ISA compliance will be demanding
Standards (IFRS), International Standards on Auditing (ISA), and the European Union (EU)

and require enhanced institutionalized enforcement mechanisms.                 In addition, the Law on
Measures against Terrorist Financing was enacted, and the Law on Measures against Money
Laundering was amended in line with international standards and good practices. In line with the
government's objectives, the M2/GDP ratio increased to an estimated 53 percent of GDP in
December 2004 from 42 percent at end-2001, credit to the private sector increased to an
estimated 36.9percent of GDP in 2004from 15 percent in 2001, and real credit to the private
sector increased annually by almost 40 percent in 2003 and 43 percent in 2004. By 2005, the
government's objectives are to ensure that the quality of the banks 'portfolios is preserved in the




42Further amendments are currently under preparation.
43A new Accountancy Law came into effect in2002 and seeks to attain maximumcompliance with the EU
Fourth and Seventh Directives and to create an environment for the comprehensive implementation o f
IFRS for both legal entity and consolidated financial statements in 2003-05. A new Independent Financial
Audit Law came into effect in2002 and seeks to attain compliance with the EUEighthDirective and ISA
beginning in2003.


                                                     33

face of rapid credit expansion. By end-2003 the government's target of 98percentfor theprivate
sector share of banking assets had been met.44

69. The authorities are taking measuresto stimulate capital markets. The development o f
the pension fund and the insurance sectors i s intended to mobilize long term savings which could
be invested in long term financial instruments in the market. First, the State Insurance Company
(DZI) has been privatized, resulting in 100 percent private ownership o f the insurance sector.
Second, to improve investor confidence, the Commercial Code and the Law on Public Offering of
Securities have been amended to address deficiencies in minority shareholder protection and to
strengthen corporate governance provisions. Third, supervision o f Non-Bank Financial
Institutions (NBFIs) has been integrated and the Financial Supervision Commission has been
established to oversee the regulation and supervision o f securities markets, insurance companies,
andpension funds.45Inaddition, the Consultative Council for Financial Stability, a separate body
o f senior officials from all financial services supervisory agencies, has been established to ensure
proper coordination and the development of a system-wide perspective in assessing and dealing
with risk and vulnerability. Finally, in the beginning o f 2004, the authorities also achieved
significant strengthening o f the govemance structures and fiduciary standards of private pension
funds. In addition to the strengthening o f the supervisory capacity o f the FSC, the legal
framework was amended to introduce global custodianship as well as more flexibility in the
investment regime, to eliminate inconsistencies in the existing legislation, to facilitate the
movement of pension fundmembers among funds, and to eliminate related party activities. These
efforts have been complemented by the pension reform measures undertaken under Pillar V,
particularly the enactment o f legislation specifying a stable path o f increases in second pillar
contributions. By end-2004, the combinedpensionfund portfolio had reached 2 percent of GDP,
and the custody services had been improved in line with the desiredprogram outcomes.

PillarIV: ImprovingPublic Sector Governance

 70. The developmentand the implementationof a broadprogramto improve public sector
governance are providing a good platform for the significant institution and capacity
building agenda still ahead in preparation for EU accession. This agenda has included
developing and beginning to implement programs intendedto reform and strengthen the capacity
o f public administration, to improve service delivery, to strengthen public expenditure
management, to reduce corruption, and to pursue fundamental judicial reform.

 71. The government has developed and begunto implement a comprehensive approach to
public administration reform and has strengthened reform management. Under PAL-3 the
 government has begun to implement its medium term public administration reform strategy and
 action plan - the Strategyfor State Administrative Modernization: From Accession to Integration
 - that was developed, updated and approved under the earlier PALS. The public administration
 and civil service reform structures o f the Council o f Ministers, the Council for State
Administration Modernization, and the State Administration Directorate have been strengthened.
A system for monitoringthe outcomes o f the State Administration Reform Strategy and Program
has been developed, and the government has begun, under PAL-3, to monitor the outcomes o f its
program in the areas of merit, depoliticization, the implementation of performance related pay,
the implementation o f functional review recommendations, and performance against service
 standards. By end-2006 the government expects to see demonstrated evidence of an improved


   The Municipal Bank (owned by the municipality o f Sofia) andthe Business Promotion Bank are the only
remaining non-private sector banks, and these two banks accounted for only 2.5 percent o f banking assets
 as o f end 2003.
45Technicalassistance i s now being provided by the Bank through the FIRST initiative in support o f the
 effective fimctional integration o f the regulatory agencies and the initial development o f an Early Warning
 System.


                                                       34

capacity in the Council of Ministers to develop and manage public administration and civil
service policy and reform, and to see evidence of progress in public administration and civil
service reforms through the development and implementation of key policy frameworks.

72. The policy and legislativeframework for a merit-based and depoliticizedcivil service is
in place, and important progress hasbeen made under PAL-3 in implementingcompetitive
recruitment. First, to provide for the introduction o f mandatory competitive selection for new
entrants into the civil service, major amendments to the Civil Service Law were enacted in 2003
(under PAL-2). PAL-3 has supported its implementation and the share o f recruitment exercises
concluded through competitive procedures has increased dramatically (Figure 11). All civil
service recruitment exercises launched in 2004 involved externally competitive processes, as
required under the improved merit-based provisions. To ensure quality recruitment, the Council
of Ministers is establishing a commission with the responsibility o f holding appointment
competitions for senior civil servants. The commission's membership will include independent
experts with experience in the field o fmanagement. Second, good progress has also been made in
the gradual conversion of posts in the general administration from labor contracts to civil service
status through the implementation of the new classifier of positions in the state administration.
Third,major amendments to the Law on StateAdministration havebeen submitted to the National
Assembly under PAL-3, requiring ministries to set strategic objectives (linked to program
budgets); to strengthen ministry-level strategic planning and policy development processes; to
provide a clear definition o f the role o f secretaries general; and to provide for depoliticization
with respect to the appointment and tenure o f senior civil servants. By end-2004, all new
recruitment exercises in the civil service had been filled through external competitive
recruitment, and by end-2006 all recruitment exercises (central government, regional
administrations, and local governments) will befilled through competitive or performance-based
recruitment or advancement.

         Figure11: Share of CompetitiveRecruitment ExerciseinBulgaria,2002-04


                         100%
                          90%                                                   I

                          80%                                                   I
                          70%
                          60%
                          50%
                          40%
                          30%
                          20%
                          10%
                           0%
                                    2002             2003               2004    ,

                                         OCompetitive "on-competitive
                                                                                ~




                     Source; Government of Bulgaria

73. A merit and performance-basedrewards and career advancement systemi s inplacein
all core ministries. A comprehensive performance appraisal system was introduced in all core
ministries from January 1, 2003, and the first round o f appraisals was completed by end-2003.
Under PAL-3 the government completed the introduction o f the new system o f performance-
related pay and career advancement, linked to the results o f the performance appraisal system. In
addition, under PAL-3, the government has made progress in enhancing civil service pay and
malung it more competitive with the private sector - particularly in areas o f recruitment and
retention. The average increase inthe public sector for 2005 was 8.5 percent, which narrowed the
gap with the private sector, and the average increase in the higher levels o f the public sector
exceeded 10 percent, with a number of increases greater than 20 percent, thereby reducing


                                                   35

 compression in public sector pay.46 By end-2006, civil service employment conditions will be
 increasingly competitive with the private sector, as demonstrated through increases in civil
service pay and the increase in the internal decompression ratio (the ratio of the basepay for a
junior expert to thatfor a secretary general).

 74. The government has begun to implement its program to reorganize all ministries and
 agencies on the basis of functional reviews. This program i s designed to align ministry and
 agency structures, functions and staffing with those required to deliver key government work
program priorities, and to put in place the administrative capacity necessary to meet the
requirements o f EUaccession and integration. Thirteen functional reviews (for 7 ministries and 6
regional administrations) were completed under PAL-3. The functional review methodology i s in
place and has been used as the basis for surveys o f all other central administrative structures.
Based on these reviews and surveys, the Council for State Administration Modernization
approved a report ("Review o f Options to Outsource Administrative Activities") which provides
the basis for all future decisions on reorganization and outsourcing, and includes detailed
reorganization action plans to implement functional review recommendations. The actual
reorganization o f administrative structures has been initiated in selected pilot entities. By end-
2006 there will be evidence of adjustments in government structures,functions, stafing levels and
skills, to increase their appropriateness for the effective delivery of priority government work
program objectives and the requirementsfor EU integration.

 75. The introduction and appraisal of performance standards, one-stop shop services in
 local administration, and e-governance are expected to improve service delivery by the
 public sector. First, a number o f steps are being taken to require government ministries and
 agencies providing services to businesses and citizens to determine and publish service and
performance standards. These performance objectives, and the specific performance standards
 adopted for administrative organizations and officials involved in delivering services to the
public, will be linked to the civil service organizations' performance management system and the
 civil servants' performance appraisal system that are now in place in all first and second line
 spending units o f all core ministries. Institutional performance mechanisms for service delivery
 institutions also include client charters, which are being implemented intwo ministries and more
 than three municipalities and will be rolled out in 2005. Second, one-stop shop pilots are in place
 inmore than halfo f the local administrations, and active deployment is expectedby end-2006 in
 all local administrations to improve point-of-service delivery contact with citizens. Third, the
 government has been implementing its e-governance action plan, including introducing on-line
 forms for tax and customs services and establishing an electronic registry o f state institutions and
 civil service positions. By end-2003, the govemment's optical cable network covered 60 percent
 of the administrative buildings in Bulgaria, thereby facilitating e-governance. By end-2006, there
 will be evidence of further increases in numbers of e-services delivered to citizens and businesses
 and in the associated volume of sewices/transactions completed/number of hits on key
government service websites; there will also be evidence of an increase in theperceptions of civil
 servants as to the degree of performance orientation in the civil ~ervice.~'By end-2003, various
 service areas (notary public services, construction supervisor services, local water and garbage
 collection) were subject to contracting out. By end-2007, there will be a signiJicant increase in
 the extent to which administrative services are subject toformal competitive processes, and in the
 outsourcingof services and the analyses of savings generated.




 ''
 46The 2002 baseline pay and benefits survey o f the public and private sectors in Sofia showed that for civil
 service pay to reachthe 80 percent median for the equivalent private sector jobs, the following levels o f pay
 increases would be necessary: junior expert, 38 percent; senior expert, 88 percent; chief expert, 144
  ercent; head o f section, 201 percent; department head, 277 percent; and director, 379 percent.
   The 2001 baseline public officials' survey revealed that only 26 percent of civil servants were familiar
 with the performance standards expected o fthem.


                                                      36

76. Under the PAL program, the government has developed and has begun to implement
its Anticorruption Program. The National Anticorruption Strategy adopted under PAL-1
provided a comprehensive framework for approaching the problem o f corruption and a unifying
framework for the government's cross-cutting attempts to combat corruption in all areas o f its
work pr~gram.~' the basis o f early experience inthis area, the Council o f Ministers approved,
                   On
under PAL-2, an anticorruption program for the period 2004-05 which included specific sectoral
anticorruption strategies for education and health, and the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC)
approved a linked anticorruption strategy for the judiciary. The agenda i s continuously being
translated into a sequence o f concrete actions in selected priority areas, and, in addition, under
PAL-3 the government has begun to publishmonitoring reports on progress made with ministry
and agency specific plans. First, the MOI and the tax and customs administrations have been
implementing detailed anti-corruption action plans, and under PAL-3 this implementation i s now
under way inthejudiciary. Second, accountability and transparency inthe civil service are being
strengthened. The legal framework for conflict o f interest and asset declarations was strengthened
under PAL-2. Under PAL-3 the Council o f Ministers has adopted a code o f ethics intended to
improve administrative procedures, reduce inappropriate discretion on the part o f civil servants,
and clarify accountability arrangements. Inaddition, freedom o f information regulations are being
implemented to provide for more timely access to information and for more effective and
transparent appeals mechanisms, and many ministries have declassified documents to make them
available to the public under the provision o f these regulations. By 2003, the number of
applications to government bodiesfor access topublic information had increased by 213 percent
compared to 2002 Cfollowing an increase of 39 percent between 2001 and 2002), 0.5percent of
these requests were turned down, and 12percent of the refusals were appealed. By end-2006, the
government's aim is that levels of state capture and administrative corruption will have been
reduced in comparison with 2001, and that the public administration will display stronger
external accountability and transparency.

77. The government has made good progressin the development and implementationof a
comprehensive program for strengthening public expenditure management. This has
included actions designed to increase allocative efficiency and transparency in budget
formulation; to strengthen the procurement and financial accountability mechanisms; and to
strengthenthe system o f intergovernmental finance.

78. The government has moved ahead with the implementationof a Medium Term Fiscal
Framework, program budgeting, and has introduced accountability for results. Starting
with a single pilot inthe Ministry o f Environment and Waters (MEW) in the 2003 budget year,
the government's program budgeting initiative has expanded to comprise seven mini~tries.~'The
pilot program documents include program classifications and descriptions, as well as information
about the objectives and potential performance measures. In all o f these pilots the intention i s to
create direct links between programs, budgeted allocations, objectives and actual performance
targets. In addition to strengthening the technical side o f the reform (through the development o f
budgets), progress i s being made under PAL-3 in ensuring accountability (by strengthening
evaluation), with the release by the National Audit Office o f a report on the MEW'Sprogram
budget. The medium-term aim i s to expand the program budgeting initiative to all spending
entities in govemment, with all 19 line ministries expected to have program budgets by 2007. As
progress in this direction under PAL-3, performance indicators and targets for all line ministries
were publishedinthe 2005 budget. The move towards a programbudgeting classificationand the


48 The 2001 public officials' survey showed that 50 percent o f officials covered felt that corruption was a
significant problem affecting the performance o f government institutions.
49  These are the Ministry o f Environment and Waters (MEW), the Ministry o f Transport and
Communications (MTC), the Ministry o f Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP), the Ministryo f Education and
Science (MES), the Ministry of Economy, the Ministryo f Energy and Energy Resources, and the Ministry
o f Youth and Sports.


                                                    37

identification o f more specific objectives and goals is also expected to help enhance the
transparency o f the national budget and to help create incentives for responsive service delivery
to the public, which i s particularly important in health and education. The Government i s aware
that these reforms have many iterations to pass through in the future, and are committed to a
properly sequenced reform approach. The government has also moved ahead with the
development of the MTFF in the 2005 budget. The government objective is that by end-2007,
there will be evidence of an improved performance focus in the entire budget, through program
orientation across government and the publication of all first level spending unit goals and
objectives in the budget and through accountability for results as reflected in active audits of
programs.    By end-2006 @or the 2007 budget preparation cycle), the public expenditure
management system will be based on theMTFF.

79. The governmenthasimprovedpublic sector capital expendituremanagementprocesses
and systems. The Ministry o f Finance (MOF) has taken a number o f steps to improve the
processes and practices involved in planning, appraising, monitoring and reporting on capital
expenditures. The 2003 draft guidelines for capital expenditure planning and appraisal were
developed according to EUstandards and distributed to all line ministries. These draft guidelines
served as the basis for the guidelines approved by the MOF in 2004 and were used for the first
time in analyzing and prioritizing the limited number o f new capital expenditure proposals in the
2005 budget. There is a need, however, to strengthen the rigor o f the analysis. The MOF has
developed and implemented, under PAL-3, a system that will allow for recording, monitoring and
reporting on all capital expenditures, which will also be evaluated and further strengthened in
years to come. The National Investment Division has been established within the MOF as the
agency responsible for the coordination o f the national investmentpolicy inthe public sector. By
end-2006, the processes for managing capital expenditures in the central government will be
standardized and institutionalized, facilitating improvements in both the efficiency and
effectiveness o f capital expenditures and enhanced accountability.      Capital expenditures are
targeted to increase to 4.5percent of GDP in the 2005 budget, compared to 3.9percent in 2003.
By 2006 there will be evidence of an improvedfocus on investment expenditures and investment
expenditure management, as reflected in improved allocations to investment and maintenance
items and more active management of these items.

80. The regulatory framework for public procurement i s being improved. The government
has begun to develop procedures and a system to manage EUpre-accession funds and to improve
the legislative and regulatory framework for all public procurement. Under PAL-3, the
government has made good progress inthe initial implementation o f the CPAR action plan aimed
at improving the efficiency and transparency o f procurement with public funds, and in the
alignment o f public procurement with EU directives. A new Public Procurement Act and related
secondary legislation have been enacted (for example, an ordinance for the award o f small public
procurements), a public procurement register i s being established, and rules and procedures for
arbitration in procurement related disputes are in place. Moving forward, the government will
continue to harmonize its procurement legislation inline with EUrequirements and to improve its
procedures and practices. By end-2005, there will be evidence of a more robust procurement
system.

81. The government is improving its internal and external audit practices. These
improvements have been carried out in line with CFAA recommendations. The Public Internal
Financial Control Agency (PIFCA), which i s responsible for internal audit, had by October 2004,
located internal audit teams in all central and local government entities and had ensured that the
annual internal audits were carried out in all government entities, and that reporting on internal
audits was carried out. At the same time, the National Audit Office (NAO) has, under PAL-3,
conducted a pilot performance audit (of the MEW). It has also developed a multi-year program
for the external auditing o f operational and financial performance in all government ministries
and agencies. There will be an increased focus on ensuring that recommendations from the NAO


                                                 38

and PIFCA are acted upon, including through enacting amendments to the NAO L a w to
strengthen the responsibility o f ministries and agencies to take action in line with NAO
recommendations. By end-2005, the aim i s to see improved internal and extemal accountability
inthe public expenditure management process. This is expected to result ingreater incentives for
improved fiscal and operational performance, lower corruption and improved transparency. By
end-2005, the government intends to show clear evidence that the NAO and PIFCA reports are
leading to appropriate action by theMOF (remedial, system andprocess improvements).

82. The government has made some progress in strengthening the system for
intergovernmentalfinance. A fundamental reform o f intergovernmental fiscal relations went
into effect in 2003 - a necessary step to improve efficiency inthe provision o fpubic services and
to strengthen local finances. The reform made a legal distinction between autonomous functions
and functions delegated to the municipalities, substantially changed the method used to calculate
municipal expenditure needs, introduced a more transparent mechanism for distributingfunding
among municipalities, and reduced incentives for overstaffing, particularly in health care. In
2003, the government reached and fully implemented an agreement with the National Association
o f Municipalities to partially liquidate outstanding local government arrears. To discourage
municipalities from running up arrears in the future, debt relief was provided only to specific
categories o f arrears.jO As in 2004, the 2005 budget fully funds all centrally mandated delegated
functions based on agreed expenditure standards. The government has also adopted a transparent
formula for allocating revenue equalization grants for the 2004 budget and has fully funded this
equalization transfer in the 2005 budget. Moving forward, the agenda includes providing
assistance to municipalities inrespondingto the efficiency incentives, assigning of greater control
to municipalities over property taxes and introducing effective mechanisms to raise resources for
investment. In accordance with the government's objective, the 2005 budgetfacilitates increased
predictability and transparency in the allocation of government transfers to municipalities.

83. A new accountability framework for the judiciary is being implemented, and the
institutionalcapacity for the implementation of the medium term reform agenda is being
strengthened. First, the most significant step has been the establishment o f an appropriate
accountability framework for the judiciary, particularly with respect to immunity, mandates, and
replaceability. The framework was introduced through amendments and additions to the
Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria promulgated on September 26, 2003 (under PAL-2) -
limiting immunity for members o f the judiciary, limiting the mandate of senior judicial
appointments, and introducing principles limiting irreplaceability (including the introduction o f
performance appraisals) - and through consequential amendments to the Judicialy Act in March
2004. The new accountability framework i s being implemented under PAL-3, including through
the competitive appointment o f magistrates inaccordance with the amended legislation. Work has
begun on the development o f performance standards for judges; completing this work remains an
important medium term priority." Second, the Supreme Judicial Council has approved an Anti-
corruption Program for the Judiciary, and implementation has begun under PAL-3. The strategy
provides for measures to strengthen the accountability o f magistrates, and to prevent corrupt
practices within the judiciary through the introduction o f a random case assignment system, more
transparent access to court documentation and files, and an active public information campaign.
Third, to facilitate the successful implementationof the mediumtermjudicial reform agenda, the
administrative capacity and organization o f the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC) are being
strengthened continuously; in addition, the SJC approved, under PAL-3, the first annual
monitoring report on the implementation o f the judicial reform program. Although a


50The largest single item o f debt relief compensated for the underestimation o f hospital care costs.
51Inaddition, the promulgationo fRules for Court Administration inOctober 2004, introducingthe concept
of a court adrmnistrator and defining the court clerical staffs performance appraisal mechanisms, ranks,
etc., will bring additional professionalism and transparency to the courts, while relieving judges and court
presidents from time-consuming administrative tasks.


                                                     39

comprehensive legislative framework for a more independent and efficient judiciary has beenput
inplace, significant efforts are still neededonthe part ofthe Bulgarian authorities andthejudicial
community to implement the enacted changes, particularly, inthe areas o f anti-conuption efforts,
improvement of the court organization, reduction o f court delays, and enhancement o f the quality
o f justice. By end-2005, the accountability, efficiency and effectiveness of thejudiciary should
have increased as demonstrated through the improved structure and administrative capacity of
the SJC, a more transparent and merit-based appointment process for judges, a reduction in
complaints and disciplinary measures against judges, and an improved perception of judges
ethics.

84. The basis for securing further efficiencies in the resolution of commercial disputes is
being established. Significant improvements in court efficiency will require continued efforts
and commitment inorder to speed up court proceedings, reduce the case backlog and enhance the
quality o f court decisions. Efficiency in the resolution o f commercial disputes will be enhanced
by the successful introduction o f a systematic approach to case management through an
automated uniform case system52in 2005. To effectively enforce judgements, consideration i s
also being given to the introduction o fprivate enforcement. Taking non-adjudicativetransactions,
such as the registration o f business entities, out o f the hands o fjudges under PAL-3 (Pillar 11) i s
also expected to contribute to the speedier resolution o f commercial disputes by courts. In
addition to steps to improve the efficiency o f courts, the legal basis for alternative mechanisms
for resolving commercial disputes i s being established under PAL-3 through the enactment o f the
Law on Mediation and the establishment o f a network o f professional mediators.             If these
measures are successful, by mid-2006, the length of courtproceedings should be reduced, and the
percentage of commercial disputes resolved through mediation and other alternative venues
should increase.

85. The administrative justice system i s also being strengthened under PAL-3. A new
Administrative Procedural Code has been submitted to the National Assembly to provide the
legal basis for the establishment o f nearly a dozen specialized administrative courts (there i s at
present only one Supreme Administrative Court in Sofia). Work i s underway on the development
o f a comprehensive plan for the establishment o f the courts. By end-2006, at least 50percent of
specialized administrative courts will be operational.

Pillar V: InvestinginHumanCapitaland StrengtheningSocialProtection

86. The government has expressed its commitment to increasing investments in human
capital and reducing poverty and social exclusion. To ensure that the population is
empowered to participate in future growth and to prepare for successful integration into the EU,
the government i s developing and implementing programs to improve the quality o f health and
education services, to equip the population with the slulls required in a competitive market
economy, to enable the disadvantaged to invest in education, to strengthen national public health
programs, and to improve the governance and efficiency o f health and education services. The
government i s also defining and implementing policies to empower the disabled and the improve
the administration and targeting o f disability benefits, to ensure the successful implementation o f
pension reform, to improve coverage and efficiency o f social assistance programs, and to reduce
the institutionalization o f children through helping families and fostering community-based
alternatives to institutional care.

87. The government i s implementingitseducationreformprogramat the same time that it
i s further developing a strategy for comprehensive and ambitious reform. Bulgaria has a
strong tradition o f high educational attainment. However, there i s now wide consensus that
comprehensive reform i s necessary to address the persistent challenge o f access and an apparent


52 This is currently under way with assistance from the EU and USAID.


                                                     40

decline in quality and relevance, and to increase efficiency in preparation for the demands o f EU
accession. On December 10, 2004, the Council o f Economic Policy adopted the "National
Program for the Modernization o f Bulgarian Education" as the conceptual underpinning for its
reforms. It envisions adjustments to the teaching and learning process, the structure, governance
and management, and the financing mechanisms o f the education system. P A L 3 supports the
adoption and implementation o f specific elements o f the government's strategy, focusing
particularly on enhancing access while also assisting the development o f the future policy
framework. Following the public debate and discussion on the specific directions o f the medium
term reform program, particularly on structure, governance and financing, the intention i s to
establish a completely new legislative and regulatory framework to replace the existing National
Public EducationAct and Higher Education Act.

88.    Significant progress has been made in implementing programs to increase the
opportunities for equal access to the educationalsystem and to integrateall disadvantaged
groups into primaryand secondaryeducation. First,the government has introduced a number
of policies, programs and funding mechanisms to support the integration o f children from ethnic
minorities into the education system. An obligatory pre-school year was introduced in September
2003, which is especially beneficial for the early integration o f children from minorities. Under
the government's updated strategy and action plan for this educational integration (supported by
PAL3), Roma children who wish to attend better quality schools outside their neighborhood will
be enabled to do so.j3 The government has earmarked funds in the 2005 budget, and has also
established (under PAL-3) an "Educational Integration o f Ethnic Minorities Children and Pupils
Fund" to channel funds to government and non-government programs supporting educational
integration, with a principal focus on the desegregation o f Roma schools. Second, the PALShave
supported changes to the child allowance program to provide incentives for increasing school
attendance among children from poor families. The monthly child allowance benefit was made
conditional on school attendance for all eligible school age children, starting from the school year
2002-03.    Under PAL-3, the Law of Family Benefits for Children was further amended to
introduce an additional cash allowance at the beginning o f the school year to enable poor children
inthe first grade to purchase educational materials. Third, under PAL-3, a decisionwas taken by
the National Assembly to provide free textbooks to all children in primary schools, to introduce
school feeding, and to provide transportation to children in remote rural villages. Finally, to
facilitate the participation o f children with special educational needs in the mainstream school
system, the government has been implementing its National Plan for the Integration o f Children
with Special EducationNeeds inthe Public Education System for the period 2004-07. The Public
Education Act and the relevant secondary legislation were amended to allow the integrated
education o f children with special education needs into the mainstream schools and
 kindergarten^.'^ For the 2004-05 school year, 10 special schools for intellectually impaired
children (where most o f the children are o f Roma ethnic origin) began teaching the regular school
curriculum. At this point, 675 children with special education needs are integrated and 130
resource teachers have been appointed. Thegovernment's aim is to continuously reduce the gaps
in school attendance between children from disadvantagedfamilies and other children, and, by
end-2007, to integrate 40 percent of Roma children into mainstream schools. School non-
attendance ratesfor childrenfrom thepoorest quintilefell by 20percentage points (Figure 12).




53 Other initiatives for 2005 include the introduction o f mother tongue learning and second chance
education for older ethnic minority children.
54 The amendments address granting physical access to schools, providing specialized training equipment
and appointing resource teachers for children with special needs.


                                                    41

        Figure 12: Reductionin School Drop-Out Rates by Quintiles, 2001 versus 2003


                 400   1   372




                            Poorest         2                  3          4         Rchest

                                                      0 2 0 0 1 B2003,

            Source: MTHS 2003.

89. The government has also begun to implement strategies to increase the relevance of the
skills of current and future entrants into the labor force. To respond to the needs o f a
knowledge-based society and to meet the Lisbon goals, the government's program identifies
several priority areas for reform. These areas include the provision o f core general compulsory
programs, the teaching o f foreign languages and the introduction o f information technologies
(ICT), the introduction o f independent extemal assessments, the facilitation o f transfers between
education levels and types o f schools, and an emphasis on lifelong learning. Several initiatives are
already under way, including the introduction o f foreign language training. In addition, under
PAL-3 the National Assembly approved the National Program for introducing ICTs in seconda
schools aimed at supporting the needs o f the information society and meeting the Lisbon target.        2
The first phase, equipping about 50 information and research centers or teachers training centers,
has been completed. In the second phase, 700 schools will be equipped and 16,000 teachers
trained. The government, under PAL-3, has also adopted a Strategy for Continuous and
Vocational Training and an Action Plan for implementing the strategy in 2005, to enhance the
professional qualifications o f the w ~ r k f o r c e .Moving forward, important priority areas include
                                                       ~ ~
the preparation o f new regulations for the professional development o f teachers, establishment o f
an effective system o f appraisal and rewards, and structural adjustments to reduce profiling in
compulsory education. To continue to upgrade its education system, the government aims to
gradually increase the share ofpublic resources devoted to educationfrom 4.1percent of GDP in
2002, with a view to achieving levels of expenditure by end-2007 that are closer to those in
OECD countries (5.6percent of GDP). By end 2007, the government expects to begin to see a
reversal in the present trend of declining performance in international surveys such as TIMSS,
PISA and national assessments.

90. The government has begun to implement measures to strengthen the governance and
financing of education. The government's concept for the modernization o f education envisions
significant changes inthe management and financing o f education. Some initial steps have been
taken under the PALS,but a large future agenda remains. First, in the case o f primary and

55 The Lisbon target was   100 percent o f schools to be connected to the internet. According to the TIMSS
2003 study, Bulgarian teachers o f eighth grade students reported that the percentages o f students who did
not have access to computers for mathematics and science teaching were 91 percent and 85 percent
respectively, which i s greater than inall EUcountries and Romania.
56Only 1.4percent o fthe employedinBulgaria engage in continuing education comparedto 9.7 percent in
the EU.


                                                      42

secondary education, financing moved in 2003 from funding o f inputs to financing based on
enrollments, with adjustments for classroom size.       However, regulatory constraints limit the
ability o f local governments or schools to adequately respond to the reduced incentives for
overstaffing. The government plans to further develop the funding method to link it to quality,
and to introduce a competitive element. The roles o f central and local government institutions
and schools will be reviewed and clarified. Second, in the case o f higher education, the
government has prepared an action plan which includes inter alia reform o f the governance and
financing  o f universities. It envisions changes in the composition o f the governing councils and
in the appointment of rectors. The plan includes the introduction of a competitive element in
funding to provide incentives for efficiency and to support other priorities, such as increased
employability or greater responsiveness to market demand. These are ambitious reforms which
will require a considerable amount o f consensus and capacity building. In addition, to
successfully implement these reforms the government plans to strengthen quality assurance
mechanisms and to introduce independent extemal assessment. By end-2007, the government's
objective is to gradually raise the student-teacher ratio particularly in higher education towards
the average level in OECD countries. By end-2007 there will also be greater autonomy and
accountability in the management of higher education institutions.

91. The government i s implementingits comprehensive healthcare reform strategy while
further defining future directions intended to improve the health status and the use
available resources efficiently. The reforms are aimed at enhancing the quality o f care and
strengthening national health programs, while improving the efficiency and fiscal sustainability o f
the health care system.     The essence o f the government's reforms in the health sector i s the
separation o f service provision from financing and the movement towards a publicly administered
insurance fund, implemented through a mix o f public and private providers of care. At the center
i s the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), which combines the roles o f pooling risks and
purchasing medical care through contracts with physicians, group practices, and hospitals.
Having completed the major elements o f the reform inthe primary care sector, the government's
focus during the PAL period has been to implement the reforms in the hospital sector, while
continuing to evaluate and fine tune the overall reform agenda. PAL-3 has thus additionally
supported the development o f elements o f the future policy framework for health reform - in
particular in the areas o f drug policy and health insurance. Moving forward, the government i s
developing a new health strategy, laying out future directions for continuing health reform. The
new strategy aims to address the outstanding issues o f access, informal payments and corrupt
practices and the particular challenges posed by the rapidly aging population. It will examine the
options for the ownership and management o f hospitals, define future directions for health
insurance to improve its financial sustainability, define the role and development o f private
voluntary supplementary health insurance, and identify the role o f social assistance inhealth care.
The government has begun to prepare - and is expected to enact in 2006 - a health insurance
code which will consolidate the existing legislation in a consistent legal framework while
providing the framework for future reforms. Once completed, the reforms should bring about
significant improvements in access to care regardless o f socioeconomic status, should enable
service use according to need, and should ultimately lead to improved health status and to
consumer and provider satisfaction.

92. The government has taken important steps to improve the governance and financial
sustainability of the healthcare system. It has consolidated the separation o f the functions o f
stewardship, financing and service provision by emphasizingthe role o f the Ministry o f Health in
system stewardship and by strengthening the institutional capacity and information infrastructure
of the NHIF. First, hospital financing has been streamlined and i s gradually becoming output
based. The reimbursement mechanisms are being expanded and improved.              Second, a vastly
improved hospital accreditation system i s being introduced under PAL-3, with the remaining
legislative amendments planned in 2005 to ensure the independence o f the new Accreditation



                                                 43

Council. Third, the government i s upgrading the institutional capacity o f the NHIF" and rolling
out the piloted information platform that will enable it to handle all financial and clinical data - a
critical step inrendering the NHIF a strategic purchaser o f health services capable o f monitoring
the mix, volume and quality o f all services that it purchases from the providers and health care
facilities. Fourth, on the revenue side the government i s buildingan evidence base to revisit the
contributions, benefits and entitlements under the NHIF and voluntary health insurance schemes.
PAL-3 supports the development of a strategy with realistic revenue and expenditure projections
to ensure universal access to essential services within the context o f the long-term fiscal
sustainability of the NHIF. The government is making progress towards its objective of
consolidating all hospital financing under the NHIF by 2006: in 2005, the NHIF budget
allocation for inpatient care increased by 20 percent and accounted for 50 percent of all
inpatient expenditures. Overall, more than 90% of the hospital financing in 2005 has become
activity-based, with MoH also introducing new methods of payment for hospital services. The
governmentS aim is that by 2007 the NHIF will have a balanced budget and will no longer
require supplements from its reserves or the consolidated government budget. This will also
require keeping the NHIF's administrative costs under 3 percent of total expenditures. By end-
2005 the new cycle of accreditation of all medical carefacilities will have been completed.

93. The government has designed and is implementing a unified national policy, strategy
and action plan for pharmaceuticals. Under PAL 3, the government has developed the
National Drug Policy Framework and the accompanying action plan, and has enacted several
ordinances for its implementation, in line with EU directives. Together, these are expected to
maintain and ensure the quality, safety and efficacy o f the pharmaceuticals in the Bulgarian
market, to institute pricing and reimbursement policies to safeguard the equitable access to drugs,
to promote the rational use o f drugs, and to advance the process o f the harmonization of the
Bulgarian legislation in the Human Medicine Drugs and Pharmacies Act with the EU
requirements. The positive drug list, completed as part o f this framework, i s already being used to
guide the reimbursement of drugs covered by the NHIF in order to ensure cost-effectiveness in
pharmaceutical financing. This has resulted in afall in the NHIF's expenditures by more than 14
percent between 2003 and end-2004.

94. To better align the health care system with the needs of the populationand to improve
the quality of inpatient services, the government is implementing its hospital restructuring
strategy. PAL-3 supports the implementation o f the strategy and action plan for hospital
restructuringdeveloped under the earlier PALS.Under PAL-3, the government has completed the
implementation o fthe first yeadphase o f its five year restructuringplan. First, PAL-3 supports the
development o f an updated National Health Map (NHM). This NHMreassesses all regional and
national health facilities, taking into account health care needs, and sets the ground for closures
of beds and hospitals or their conversion for other uses, to guide future restructuring and capital
investments in the secondary and tertiary care facilities. Second, the process o f restructuring of
selected national hospitals and o f municipal hospitals in three regions has started."              The
restructuring will continue over the medium term until all facilities are realigned in accordance
with the needs o f the population. The next stage will be the adjustment o f human resources. The
upgrading o f existing capital assets for inpatient care, investments in new equipment and
facilities, and adjustments in human resources are, together, expected to contribute to visible
improvements in the quality and efficiency o f inpatient services. The occupancy ratio in acute
care hospitals supervised by the Ministly of Health (MOH) increasedfrom 66percent in 2001 to
79percent in 2003, and the average length of stayfell from I1 days in 2001 to 8.8 days in 2003.
By end-2005, the government 's objective is to achieve an average of 85percent in the occupancy



'*Withthe
57          support o f Bank financing under the Health Sector Reformproject.
  Investments for restructuring the national hospitals are being provided with the support o f the Health
Sector Reformproject.


                                                    44

ratio of acute care hospitals and a reduction in the average length of stay towards the EU
average of 8.2 days.

95. The government has designeda new mechanismto fund nationalhealthprograms and
has strengthened preventive care and tobacco control. First, in 2003 (under PAL-2) the
govemment designed a new mechanism for financing preventive health services in order to
increase the budgetary allocations to priority national public health programs, namely,
tuberculosis control, immunization and HIV/AIDS prevention and care.                   Under PAL-3, the
govemment has increased the proportional allocation to national public health programs in the
MOH's operating budget. Second, to prevent the worsening o f tobacco-related health risks and
problems, inJuly 2004 the National Assembly enacted amendments to the Health Act earmarking
1 percent of the excise tax collected from tobacco and tobacco products for the funding o f the
national tobacco control programs. The govemment also completed the harmonization o f its
tobacco control legislation with the relevant EU directives. In 2004 it ratified a Framework
Convention for Tobacco Control and enacted the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products. The
government's aim is to have in place by the end-2005 a monitoring and evaluation system to
gauge theprogress and assess the impact of theseprograms; Immunization coverage has already
begun to increase (96percent of children age 2 years had been immunized against polio in 2003,
compared to 94.4percent in ZOOO), and tuberculosis incidence has begun tofall (in 2003 there
were 41.7 new cases of tuberculosis per 100,000population compared to 48 in 2001) in line with
the government's objectives. Thegovernment has gradually increased the excise duty on tobacco
products asper the EU directive.

96. An importantstart hasbeenmadeto promotethe full and productive integrationof the
disabled into society and the labor markets and to improve the effectiveness of disability
benefits. First, a new legal fkamework for fostering the recognition and integration o f disabled
people into mainstream employment and the mainstream society i s now in place, which
constitutes a sharp departure from the historical approach, in which the focus was on separation
and which entailed large costs relating to the unrealized potential o f individual^.^' Following the
adoption o f a National Strategy for Equal Opportunity for the Disabled, the National Assembly
has enacted, under PAL-3, the Integration of People with Disabilities Act. As o f January 2005, a
social assessment will be included in addition to a medical assessment to determine the options
for rehabilitation and integration and to determine the non-pension benefits based on need.
Second, important steps are being taken to address the increasing problems with administering
and targeting the disability benefits, and to reduce incentives for abuse. Amendments to the
Health Act enacted in July 2004 provide for representation o f the National Social Security
Institute (NSSI) on the Disability Assessment Committee (TELK). This should, in principle,
contribute to a reduction in unjustified disability uptakes, although the impact will need to be
monitored. The new Health Act also provides greater control to the NSSI over medical staff
assessment o f temporary and long-term disability, and establishes strict rules - including the
withdrawal o f medical licenses - to reprimand doctors who abuse and misuse the disability
assessment process. In addition, under PAL-3, the Social Insurance Code has been amended to
prohibit the awarding o f disability benefits to individuals over retirement age, bringingdisability
benefits in line with international practice while reducing the incentives for misuse. Moving
forward, efforts will focus, inter alia, on implementing improvements in the assessment process
and on instituting a system o f non-pension benefits that i s aligned with individuals' specific
requirements. Startingfrom 2005, no new disability pensions will be awarded to people over
retirement age; by end-2006, there will be improved control over disability uptake andfraud, and
needs (social) assessment regulations will be inplace and applied to the disabled.


59The historical approach to disability inBulgaria established state owned institutions for residential and
employment purposes, which created a highdegree o f dependency between the disabled, and their families
and the state. The focus was o n separationrather than o n integration, which lead to social and economic
isolation.


                                                    45

97. The government has completedthe implementationof the reformofthe pensionsystem
towards a multi-pillar system. The system comprises three pillars: first, the publicly managed
pay-as-you-go system; second, the mandatory supplementary defined contribution universal (for
those born after December 31, 1959) and occupational (for those working under hazardous
conditions) pension plans; and third, the voluntary supplementary plans. The government has
successfully completed the implementation o f its action plan to help ensure the successful
implementation o f the multi-pillar reform. First, the legal and regulatory framework concerning
private pension plans and their supervision has been amended to improve governance structures
and supervision capacity, to improve fiduciary standards and to introduce more flexibility into the
investment regime (Pillar 111). Second, a consolidated Social Insurance Code was enacted to
consolidate mandatory and voluntary pension insurance as well as other social insurance
legislation and to eliminate inconsistencies, thus providing a more coherent legal framework for
social insurance. Third, regulations were adopted to transfer pension fund contributions in a
prompt and transparent manner. Fourth, amendments to the Social Insurance Code were enacted
(under PAL-3) to specify the medium term directions o f key pensionparameters (the contribution
rates allocated to public and private pillars, the timetable for increasing second pillar
contributions and for establishing a 5050 split in employer and employee contributions, and the
benefit indexation rule). This action will ensure their effectiveness, by default, over a multi-year
period and will avoid the need to revisit these parameters every year within the framework o f the
Public Social Insurance Budget Law. This i s an important step towards enhancing predictability
for beneficiaries, contributors, investors, and for public finances, and thus it contributes to the
robustness and sustainability o f the multi-pillar pension system. I n line with the government's
objective, by 2005 greater stability has been achieved in benefit indexation, contribution base
dynamics, and contribution rates.

98. Manyfundamental changeshavebeenintroducedinto the administration and designof
social assistance programs, significantly improving their effectiveness (Box 6). First, the
introduction o f the concept o f welfare to work, by shifting the focus o f support for those who can
work from social assistance to subsidized employment, has contributed to the improved targeting
of the government's main program for direct income support (the Guaranteed Minimum Income
or GMI program). The adequacy of this program to cover basic needs as well as its targeting to
the poorest was further improved by increasingthe eligibility threshold particularly for vulnerable
groups, including under PAL-3. Second, through amendments to the Social Assistance Act, the
responsibility for financing most forms o f social assistance (and social services) was fully
transferred to the state budget. This has completely eliminated the problem of in-kindpayments
and arrears in the GMI. Third, a new Law of Family Benefits to Children has introduced means
testing in the child allowance program. In addition, to provide incentives for increasing school
attendance among poor families, the monthly child allowance was made conditional on school
attendance for all eligible school age children, starting from the school year 2002-03. Fourth, the
administration o f all family benefit payments was consolidated under the umbrella o f the Social
Assistance Agency, and coverage o f the child benefits was expanded to include poor children not
previously covered (e.g., children o f the uninsured self-employed). The administration o f social
assistance benefits has been further improved by the empowering o f the Social Assistance
Agency to verify eligibility for social assistance programs through spot checks. Finally, the
winter energy benefits program has been adjusted annually in the light o f tariff increases, while
targeting has been further improved through increases in thresholds for vulnerable groups.
These changes resulted in substantial improvements in the effectiveness of social assistance
programs between 2001 and 2003: the coverage of the poorest quintile by the GMI program
increased 2.7 times, and the energy benefit program 1.5 times. The share of funds channeled by
the GMIprogram to the poorest quintile increased from 60 percent to 75 percent, the share of
funds channeled to the child allowanceprogram increasedfrom 20percent to 36percent, and the
heating allowance increased from 47 to 54 percent. School non-attendance rates for children
from thepoorest quintilefell by 20percentage points.


                                                 46

                  Box 6: ImmovedEffectivenessof SocialAssistance under the PAL Program            -
The achievements in enhaking the effectiveness o f the main social assistance benefits in Bulgaria under the
PALS have been impressive. With the "New Social Policy Strategy" the government advocated a substantial
change in the philosophy o f social assistance from providing benefit assistance to providing employment
assistance. The organization and administration o f social assistance was substantially improved by securing
hnding from the state budget and consolidating payments under the umbrella o f the Social Assistance Agency.
The government also took important steps to improve the design o f the main programs, with the clear goal o f
improving the effectiveness o f the system. For example, the child allowance benefit was restructured to become
a means-tested benefit   conditional on school attendance. As a result, the child allowance now provides support
to low-income families with children and, at the same time, fosters school attendance among the children who
are at a higher risk for school drop-out.

 The results o f these efforts in the short time frame are already evident. First, Figure 10 in the text showed the
fall in school non-attendance among all children, particularly the poorest. The targeting performance o f the child
benefit program has also improved substantially: the share o f funds channeled to the poorest quintile o f the
population in 2003 was more than one-and-a-half times that in 2001. Second, the figure in this box, shows
dramatic improvements in the targeting performance o f the GMI: In 2003, 75 percent o f funds went to the
poorest quintile o f the population, up from 60 percent in 2001. This has placed the program among the best
performing means-tested programs internationally. The impressive targeting performance o f the GMI is due in
part to an effective system o f means-testing and in part to the self-targeting brought about by the "From Social
Assistance to Employment" program for the long-term unemployed. It i s important to note that the improvement
intargeting has occurred while the program has expanded its coverage substantially: the coverage o f the poor
has more than doubled. Third, the share o f hnds channeled by the winter energy benefits program increased
from 47 percent to 54 percent.
              TargetingPerformanceof the GMIBenefit (YOof funds by consumptionquintile)



                                70%                                                        I
                             ~




                             I  60%
                                50%
                                40%
                                30%
                                20%
                                10%
                                0%
                                       Poorest       2         3         4      Richest     1
                             I
                             I                         02001 B2003


 Based on Tesliuc, Comelia (2004), "Social Protection and Poverty Reduction in Bulgaria - an Update," mimeo. The
 World Bank.
 Note: The magnitudes of the changes in effectiveness need to be interpreted with caution as they are generated from
 different, non-comparable surveys. Moreover, the MTHS substantially under estimates coverage rates for the GMI
 program, which could additionally affect the findings.The direction ofthe changes, however, is without doubt.
 Source: BulgariaIntegratedHouseholdSurvey 2001 andMulti Topic HouseholdSurvey, 2003.

   99. The provision of social services for vulnerable groups i s being reorganized. These
   groups include children as well as the disabled, elderly and mentally handicapped. Developing
   effective social service provision outside of the traditional institutional care for these groups i s
   central to the inclusion agenda as Bulgariajoins the EU.Developing non-institutional services for
   the elderly will also become increasingly important in view o f Bulgaria's rapidly aging
   population. A number o f important steps have been taken, particularly in the provision o f child
   care services. First, the legal framework for private and NGO provision has been established
   through amendments to the Social Assistance Act, and the previous licensing procedure for
   services for the disabled, elderly and mentally handicapped has been replaced with a more open
   but better controlled registration process. Minimum standards for the provision o f services are


                                                           47

being adopted. Second, comprehensive road maps for the restructuring o f all existing childcare
institutions - including downsizing, and closing down and/or opening these institutions for the
provision o f day-care services - have been prepared by municipalities and agencies under PAL-3
and implementation i s expected in 2005. Moving forward, the reform agenda includes the design
and adoption of financing arrangements that will provide incentives for phasing out institutional
care and encouraging altemative service provision by a diverse range o f providers, including
municipalities, NGOs, commercial providers and community groups. By 2007 there will be an
increase in the number of non-governmental child care providers and community-based child
werfare services, and an increase in the number of alternative child care providers subject to
transparent, modern, licensing procedures, and all childcare institutions will have been
restructured.

100.     The legal and institutional framework for a national system of child protection has
been established and the number of children being placed in specialized institutions has
fallen. Just under 2 percent o f Bulgarian children were in institutions in2001, implyinga rate o f
institutionalization that i s high by intemational standards and entailing high costs for the
development o f human and social capital. The government has taken a number o f steps to
facilitate the rearing o f children in families and with the support o f communities. The basic
framework for these refoms i s provided by the Child Protection Act o f 2001, which makes
institutionalization an option o f last resort and requires court approval o f child protection
measures. First, the institutional capacity o f the State Agency for Child Protection (SACP)       -
charged with the responsibility for implementing and enforcing the regulation - i s being
upgraded.60 Second, several individual pieces o f primary and secondary legislation have been
aligned with the provisions o f the Child Protection Act. PAL-3 has seen the implementation of
many o f these revised provisions. In particular, under the amended internal regulations o f the
MES (which houses the largest number o f institutionalized children), new entry procedures are
being implemented.        Third, to provide incentives for the supply o f alternative services,
amendments to the Family Supportfor Children Act now provide foster care givers and guardians
with the same entitlements to family benefits as biological and adoptive parents, while
amendments to the Social Insurance Act and the Labor Code provide them with the same
entitlements to parental, maternity and child sick leave. Fourth, a new ordinance adopted by the
COM under PAL-3 facilitates the selection o f foster care givers and the placement o f children in
foster care, and training i s being provided to social workers, judges and foster families. Between
2001 and 2003, there has been a reduction in the number of specialized institutions by 3.5
percent, a decline in the number of childrenplaced in institutions by 9.5percent, and afall in the
rate of institutionalization from 1.9 percent of the child population to 1.8 percent. n e
government's objective is to achieve, by end-2007, a decline in the number of children in
specialized institutions by at least I O percent (compared to 2001) and an increase in the number
of institutions that are restructured.

101.     The government has strengthened its capacity for the analysis and monitoring of
living standards. Under PAL-1, a Policies, Analysis and Forecasts department with the
responsibility for poverty monitoring and for evaluating the impact o f government policies and
programs on poverty and living standards was established within the MOLSP. In October 2003,
the government implemented its first multi-topic household survey, and based on this the
government has carried out a detailed analysis o f poverty trends and causes, and intends to
disseminate its findings. The first municipal-level poverty map has been produced based on the
survey data, and the government i s developing its system for the monitoring o f social indicators
that will be used to track the progress made towards meeting the EU accession-related
commitments taken within the Joint Action Program. The government's objective i s to
increasingly use its analyses to inform the updating o f its strategic documents relating to poverty


6oThis is supportedby a well coordinatedeffort ofthe EU (througha twinning arrangement) andthe World
Bank (throughthe ChildWelfareReformProject).


                                                  48

and social exclusion, and has done so in its Joint Inclusion Memorandum signed with the EU in
February 2005.

                                  D.   BANKGROUP       STRATEGY

Country Assistance Strategy

102.     The proposed PAL-3 is fully consistent with the 2002-05 Bank Group Country
Assistance Strategy for Bulgaria which was reviewed by the Board of Executive Directors
on May 9, 2002. The CAS focused on three main themes: (i)promoting competitive private
sector led growth; (ii)strengthening public administration and tackling corruption; and (iii)
mitigating the social impact o f restructuring and delivering social services more effectively.
Drawing on the lessons of the previous CAS, the 2002-05 CAS recognized the need for a
comprehensive policy reform program to support the wide range o f remaining policy and
institutional reforms required for Bulgaria to be able to complete the transition to a fully
competitive market economy. Under the CAS, Bank support i s to be provided over the CAS
period through the planned series of PALS. This approach was designed to enable the Bank to be
comprehensive in its approach while at the same time maintaining a focus on ensuring the
sustainability o f the outcomes being pursued under this multi-year program.

103.     Bulgaria has satisfactorily met the CAS conditions for remaining in the base case.
PAL-3 supported the govemment in maintaining satisfactory progress in the implementation o f
the govemment program. The macroeconomic performance remains robust and satisfactory, and
structural reforms remain on track. The portfolio performance has improved recently following
concerted efforts by the govemment jointly with the Bank, and a quarterly portfolio review
process i s now in place. The Bank has decentralized procurement and has set up a regional
procurement unit in Sofia. A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), completed
in December 2003, has provided an important input to PAL-2 and PAL-3.                     A Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), submitted to the government in July 2004, has
informed the PAL-3 preparation.

Portfolio Quality

104.     The performance of the Bulgaria program has improved with an 87 percent
satisfactory rating and a considerable acceleration of the implementationpace. This positive
development i s the result of proactive portfolio management and o f the portfolio's entering a
more mature stage. A system for proactive portfolio monitoring was set up by the government,
led by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister o f Economy. The govemment o f Bulgaria and
the Bank have been actively engaged in quarterly monitoring against agreed targets to address
delays in project implementation. Further to the Quarterly Portfolio Monitoring process, the
Bulgaria Country Unit contracted an external consultant to undertake a limited review o f the
Bulgaria portfolio, with a focus on projects that were at risk for not achieving their development
objectives by their current closing dates. The review proposed detailed actions to address gaps in
the portfolio performance and digression from the development impact goals, including measures
such as the restructuring of projects and the cancellation of project/loan components which have
been under-performing.        Based on the review, the government adopted decisions for the
restructuring o f projects at risk which include tight monitoring and closer follow-up to ensure the
sustained improvement and optimization o f portfolio performance.           At this stage, only the
registration and cadastre project has an unsatisfactory status and i s subject to a closely monitored
six-month action plan.        Accelerated project implementation is reflected in a substantive
improvement in the disbursement ratio, which reached 17.8 percent as o f mid-February 2005,
compared with a disbursement ratio ofjust 9.9 percent for the entire FY04.




                                                  49

Cooperationwiththe IMF

105.     The IMF Board, on August 6, 2004, approved a 25-month SDR 100 million Stand-
By Arrangement of a precautionary nature. The IMF supports the Bulgarian authorities'
economic program as articulated in the Memorandum o f Economic Policies dated July 21, 2004.
The ability of the government to fulfill its commitments under the IMF program depends to a
large extent on the structural and institutional reforms to be supported by the PALs. Cooperation
between the Fundand the Bank has been strong, including the completion o f the joint Bank-Fund
Financial Sector Assessment Program for Bulgaria and the joint technical assistance initiative to
upgrade the MOF debt management capacity. Annex 7 sets out in more detail the roles of the
Bank and theIMF with respect to the government's economicprogram.

Coordinationwith Donors

106.     The Council for EconomicPolicy (CEP) coordinates the economic reforms and the
PAL program. The amendments to the Council for Economic Policy (formerly the Council for
Structural Policy), introduced at end-December 2003, specify that the Council has coordinating,
informational and analytical functions related to the economic policy issues, and takes the lead
role in donor coordination.        The amendments also provide for the establishment o f thematic
working groups under the overall oversight o f the Deputy Prime Ministers. The Council o f
Ministers' Directorate for European Integration and Relations with International Financial
Institutions (IFI) acts as the secretariat (coordination unit). On the basis o f the experience over
the last 18 months, and in order to respond to the demands and priorities o f the government
(namely, to accomplish the reform and EU accession agenda) the CEP has decided to reorganize
the Workmg Groups (WGs). Development partners and the government are working on the next
steps that will operationalize the revised WGs structure. The Bank has maintained, under the
PAL program, very strong and effectivejoint working arrangements and relationships with donor
partners. These include for Pillar IUSAID and EBRD (e.g. in the energy sector), for Pillar I1the
EC and USAID (e.g. EC on insolvency, USAID through their Commercial L a w ReformProgram
and on labor market reform), for Pillar IV the EC, DFID, OECD and EU (e.g., especially on
Public Administration and Judicial Reform, including the EU Advisor on PAR funded by DFID,
Support for Improvement in Governance and Management - a joint program o f OECD and EU,
and the Open Government Initiative funded by USAID), and for Pillar V USAID, DFID, EC and
UNICEF (e.g. USAID on pensions and health, UNICEF, EC and DFID on child welfare and de-
institutionalization).

                                       E. THEPROPOSED          LOAN

Major PolicyAreas andActions TakenPriorto BoardPresentation

107.     PAL-3 supports an impressively broad and deep set of substantial and concrete
actions.The maintenance o f macroeconomic stability, which was discussed inthe first section o f
this memorandum, is a precondition for proceedingwith PAL-3. As discussed in section C, the
CAS adopted additional triggers for processing to PAL-3 to ensure that adjustment lending would
reach the proposed U S $450 million level6' only if the indicators o f economic outcomes
confirmed that Bulgaria had substantially improved its standing as a result o f reforms in the first
two PALs, and if the downside risks o f overall economic performance were low.                These
additional triggers have also been met.             PAL-3 supports nearly 100 benchmarks in the
government's program in all five pillars. Bank staff have worked closely with the government in
developing and implementing this rich program, reflecting the comprehensive policy dialogue


61Infact, with the completion o f PAL-3, actual adjustment lending would have reached US$425 million
equivalent instead of the total $450 million, as the total amount disbursed under PAL-2 was US$ 125
million equivalent instead o f the originally planned $150million equivalent.


                                                      50

underlying the loan.      These benchmarks are included in Annex 6, an attachment to the
Govemment's Letter o f Development Policy (Annex 5). Selected key policy areas and actions
under PAL,-3, completed prior to Board Presentation, are presentedbelow.

108.     Prior to BoardPresentation,the governmenthascompletedseveral key actions:

Pillar I:Sustaining Structural Reforms

         Mostly completed its privatization program, through the sale or liquidation o f 80
percent o f SOEs in which the government hadmajority control in2002 (30 percent sold inPAL-3
alone), and nearly all minority packages (1,225 sold January 2004 to February 28,2005).

         Completedthe existingprogramof the restructuringof the energy sector to increase
competitionandprivatesector entry,through:
    0    An increase inelectricity tariffs bringingcumulative increases to 52 percent andresulting
         inthe completeeliminationof cross-subsidies between industryandhouseholds
    0    An increase in district heating tariffs, bringing cumulative increases to 33 percent and
         resulting in the complete elimination of subsidies from about 0.67 percent o f GDP in
         2002
         The approval o f an electricity sector restructuring plan to legally separate the
         transmission business from the public wholesaler role o f NEK, enabling non-
         discriminatory access to the transmission network by independent market participants.

         Achieved significant privatesector entryinthe energy sector, through:
    0    The 100 percent privatization o f the electricity distribution sector, with the sale o f all
         seven companies
    0    The sale o f seven (compared to the target o f five) district heating companies, with several
         more ongoing.

         Completed privatizationin the telecommunications sector, through the privatization
of the Bulgarian Telecommunications Company and the introduction o f effective competition.

         Continued improvements in the fiscal sustainability of railways (railway subsidies,
excluding investments, kept at 0.2 percent, down from 0.5 percent in 2000, and financial working
ratio targets for 2004 achieved) through:
    0    Signing o f the first annual Public Service Contract between the govemment and the
         railway operating company to provide financial       discipline and incentives for increased
         efficiency
    0    Rationalization o f services and networks, including adoption and implementation o f a
         govemment decision to terminate services on and close approximately 250 km o f lines,
         and termination o f nearly 120 passenger services (over 9 percent o f total) since June
         2004)
    0    Additional staffreductions, bringingcumulative reductions to 13 percent
    0    Adjustment o f track access charges to remove all cross-subsidization between freight and
         passenger services.

Pillar 11:Establishing a Market-friendlv Business Environment

         Completed 83 percent of a program for streamlining regulations to reduce
transactions costs to the private sector, through further streamlining o f centrally managed
regimes.




                                                  51

        Enabled the application of new principles to control the future development of
regulationsthat have an impact on the private sector, through the issuance and dissemination
o f guidelines for implementation to central administrative and municipal bodies on the design o f
proposed new regulatory regimes.

        Significantly reduced the number of steps and the time required to register a
businessfrom 11proceduresand 32 daysto 6 proceduresand 10 daysby 2006, and reduced
the time for resolvingcommercialdisputesfromthepresent 440 days, through:
     0  Enactment of legslation for a single identification number for business registration
     0  C O M approval o f strategy to take judges out o fregistration.

        Improvedefficiencyinfront linegovernment services, through:
     0  Enactment o f legislation and rules instituting one-stop shop contact support for
        significant new FDIto improve services for foreign investors
     0  Rolling out o f one-stop shops to over half o f local administrations to improve service
        access (also Pillar IV benchmark)
     0  Replication at the national level o f the measures piloted under the TTFSE and resulting in
        reduction in the processing time at all participating border crossing points and customs
        offices.

Pillar IV: Improving Governance

        Increasedthe competitiveness and depoliticization of the civil service,through:
     0  Filling o f the majority vacancies for civil service positions in 2004 through external
        competitive recruitment
     0  First reading by the National Assembly o f legal amendments to clarify the role o f
        political cabinets and guaranteeing the merit-based appointment o f directors o f agencies
     0  Implementing pay increases in 2004 that (i)     reduced the gap with the private sector; and
        (ii)increased the gap between higher and lower level pay scales to increase the
        attractiveness o f senior civil service positions to qualified candidates
     0  Completing the introduction o f performance related pay and advancement in all core
        ministries by basing 2005 pay on outcomes o f the performance appraisal.

        Enhancedaccountability andtransparency inthe civil service through:
     0  Adopting a code o f ethics for the civil service
     0  Implementing freedom o f information legislation, particularly the Protection o f Classified
        Information Act, leading to the expansion o f information access in government and
        greater transparency ininformation access, and few refusals o f access.

        Increased the efficiency of the resolution of commercial disputes, through the
adoption o f a Mediation Law to promote alternative dispute resolution mechanism for
commercial disputes.

        Strengthened the administrative justice system, through submission to the National
Assembly o f a new Administrative Procedural Code to establish nearly a dozen specialized
administrative courts (inaddition to the Supreme Administrative Court).

Pillar V:Investing in Human Capital and StrengtheningSocial Protection

        Increasedthe integration of childrenfrom ethnic minoritiesintoschools,through:
     0  Adoption o f an updated strategy and preparation o f action plan to enable the integration
        of children from ethnic minorities into education, including through desegregation o f
        schools, mother tongue learning and second chance education


                                                  52

     e   Enactment o f an ordinance establishing a fund to support the educational integration o f
         ethnic minorities.

         Reducedincentivesfor drop-outsinprimaryeducation,through:
     e   Enactment o f legislation to introduce cash assistance for the purchase o f school supplies
         for poor first grade children from the 2004-05 school year
     0   Adoption by the National Assembly o f a program to increase coverage and reduce the
         drop-out o f children in primary schools in 2005-06 school year, including the provision
         o f free textbooks, school feeding, transportation for children in remote villages, and
         improved community and institutional partnerships to increase access.

         Strengthened institutional structures to improve public health outcomes, including
 reducingthe incidence of tuberculosis, increasing the immunizationrates for children, and
 reducingthe incidenceoftobacco relatedhealthrisks, through:
     e   Increases inthe proportional allocation to national health programs inthe MOH operating
         budget for 2005
     e   Enactment o f legislation to earmark 1 percent o f the excise tax rate from tobacco
         products to fundnational healthprograms
     e   Increases in the excise tax for tobacco as per EU directives, resulting in increased prices
         for tobacco products and increasedfunding o f the national tobacco control program
     e   Enactment o f legislation to increase tobacco control and regulate consumption in public
         places.

         Improved efficiency in the delivery of in-patient care health care services, further
 increasing the occupancy ratio and further reducingthe average length o f stay, through:
     e   Expansion o f output-based financing mechanisms for inpatient care (to cover more than
         50 percent o f all hospital payments in 2005), providing incentives for the rationalization
         o f services
     e   Launch o f hospital restructuring in Ministry o f Health and municipal hospitals, and
         preparation o f an updatedNational Health Map to guide future restructuring.

         Reduceddisability pensionuptake,through:
     e   Enactment o f legal amendments disallowing new claims o f disability pensions by people
         over retirement age
     e   Enactment o f legislation to strengthening the role o f the National Social Security Institute
         in the disability assessment process and providing for reprimanding o f doctors for
         abuse/fiaud inthe medical assessment o f disability.

         Completed the first stage of reformof the pension system into a multi-pillar system,
and achieved stability in benefit indexation, contribution base dynamics, and contribution rates,
through:
     e   Legal amendments specifying the medium term directions o f key pension parameters
         (contribution rates allocated to public and private pillars, timetable for increasing second
         pillar contributions and for establishing a 50:50 split in employer and employee
         contributions, and the benefit indexationrule).

 109.    In addition, a number of important actions under PAL-3 provide the necessary
 foundation for continuing Bulgaria's future medium term reform agenda in several areas.
 These include    (1)approval o f a new transport sector strategy; (ii)enactment o f legislation
 enabling the establishment o f a regulator in the water sector to introduce an appropriate tariff
 structure and to improve service quality; (iii) completion o f functional reviews in 7 government
 ministries and 6 public regional administrations and approval o f a report identifying options for
 reorganization and out-sourcing; (iv) introduction o f performance standards and reporting on


                                                 53

performance for all services provided by the public sector, and the development and publication
of client charters in various national and three sub-national administrations; (v) adoption by the
Supreme Judicial Council o f an anti-corruption program for the judiciary; (vi) adoption of
improved public expenditure management processes, including the introduction of a medium term
fiscal framework, expansion o f program budgetinginnearly half o f all ministries, introduction o f
accountability for results, and improvement o f the management o f capital expenditures; (vii)
adoption o f a "National Program for the Modernization o f Bulgarian Education," as the
conceptual underpinning for a comprehensive and ambitious reform program in education; (viii)
approval o f a national pharmaceutical policy and a strategy for the fiscal sustainability o f the
National Health Insurance Fund and for the introduction o f voluntary health insurance; (ix)
improvement o f the legislative framework for a flexible system o f disability benefits through the
enactment o f a consolidated legal act and regulations for the integration o f the disabled,
instituting social assessment in addition to medical assessment; and (x) completion o f the
legislative amendments to make the deinstitutionalization o f children a measure o f last resort,
increased licensing o f non-governmental providers, development o f standards and regulations
guidingthe provision o f social services, and preparation o f road maps for the restructuring of all
child care institutions.

110.     The actions completedprior to Board Presentationunder PAL-3 have a substantial
overlap with the PAL-3 triggers as proposedin PAL-2 Board Documents.Table 4 compares
the PAL-3 Board Conditions now proposed with the PAL-3 triggers as originally proposedinthe
PAL-2 Board documentation

MediumTermReformPriorities beyondPAL-3

111.     Although the PAL program has been completed successfully, Bulgaria has a
significant medium term reformagenda as it gets ready for a successful integration into the
EU. Future support to Bulgaria will assist in addressing these demands and will support the
objectives o f increasing competitiveness, improving efficiency in the use o f public resources, and
increasing social inclusion. Specific areas to be addressed include (i)further improvements inthe
business environment including judicial reform and the reduction o f corruption; (ii)capacity
weaknesses and improvement to public service delivery at the central and local levels; (iii)
addressing infrastructure bottlenecks, particularly in transport and water; (iv) continued reforms
ineducation and health care, addressing quality, access, governance and fiscal sustainability; (v)
enhancing labor market flexibility; and (vi) social protection and social services, including further
controls on disability uptake, flexible benefits and an improved assessment o f disability, possible
new directions in pension and social assistance, and inclusive social services. These needs and
possible modalities o f assistance will be further specified inthe new Country Partnership Strategy
that will be prepared by the end o f 2005. In particular, the present government has identified
continuation o f comprehensive policy reforms in health and education, the foundation for which
has been established during PAL-3 as priorities for Bulgaria in the medium term, and as possible
priority areas for future Bank assistance.




                                                  54


1

      ay
2
9
b
3E
4


ImplementationandMonitoring

112.      The government has taken a number of steps to put in place the appropriate
institutional arrangements and structures to ensure the successful implementation of the
PAL, program. The Council for Economic Policy62(formerly the Council for StructuralPolicy)
under the Council o f Ministers, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Economy
has undertaken the overall management and coordination o f the government program. It receives
well-organized and effective support from the Directorate for European Integration and Relations
with IFIs o f the Council of Ministers The Council for State Administration Modernization set up
by the Council o f Ministers under PAL-2, has continued to function effectively during PAL-3,
and has been supported by the very active and effective Directorate for State Administration o f
the Council o f Ministers. The Anticorruption Commission, chaired by the Minister for Justice,
with the Minister for State Administration as the Deputy Chair, i s supported by a very small but
dynamic Anticorruption Coordination Commission Secretariat. Institutional development plans
for several o f the newly established independent regulatory agencies and commissions are being
implemented. The government i s also considering how to upgrade its communications strategy,
including making greater provision for private sector participation, NGOs and service users inthe
design and implementation o f government policies and reforms. A number o f other bodies and
inter-agency worlung groups are focusing on specific components o f the reform.

113.      The government has also developed mechanisms for the participation of
stakeholders in the design and implementation of the reform program. The current
legislation requires public consultation before making legislative proposals, for all sectors, and
work i s underway to further define the general procedures, principles and mechanisms for
consultationwith stakeholders. Several forums have been established with bothprivate and public
sector memberships to facilitate dialogue on thematic issues, notably the Council on Economic
Growth and the Tax Council. There are regular consultations with established private sector
organizations such as the Chamber o f Commerce and Industry, the Industrial Association, the
Employers' Association, the Associations o f Commercial Banks and the Bulgarian Association o f
the Supplementary Pension Insurance Companies. Inthe health sector, discussions on legislative
issues and annual budgets include the main nongovernmental stakeholders, most notably the
organizations o f medical professionals and dentists, and recently, o f users o f health services. The
governance o f NSSI is tripartite with a significant participation o f the social partners.          In
education, the new reform directions are becoming increasingly subject to consultations with
political parties, the teachers' unions, associations o f parents, the Rector's Council, the academic
community and civil society at large. To enhance inclusion o f vulnerable groups in the policy
decision-making process, the government i s holding consultations with the Economic and Social
Council, the National Council on Rehabilitation and Social Integration, the newly established
National Council on Inter-ethnic Cooperation and Demographic Development and the
commissions for childprotection.

114.      The medium term program implementation plan includes several feedback
mechanismsto enable the government to track progress towards the desired outcomes. A
baseline Administrative and Regulatory Cost Survey (ARCS) was completed under PAL-1, the
first repeat survey was undertaken under PAL-2, and a follow up will take place under PAL-3 in
spring 2005. A living standards survey was carried out in2003. To assess changes inthe public


   It includes as members the DeputyPrime Minister and Minister of Transport, the Minister of Labor and
Social Policy, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, the Minister of Finance, the
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, the Minister of State Administration, the Minister of Energy and
Energy Resources, the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Environment and Waters, the
Minister o f Health, two Deputy Ministers of Economy determined by the Minister of Economy, and a
Deputy Minister o f Finance determined by the Minister of Finance.


                                                   59

perception o f the judicial system, a survey was implemented in 2004. A repeat public officials
and pay and benefits surveys will be rununder PAL-3, together with a number o f service delivery
surveys.    NGO anticomption surveys and NGO monitoring o f access to information will
continue to provide important monitoring data. Progress measured against the desired outcomes
is documented in detail in the Matrix of Performance Benchmarks attached as Annex 6A to this
Program Document.

Poverty and Social Impacts

115.     Bulgaria has a comprehensive social protection systemwhich effectively reducesthe
negative social impacts of restructuring. First, Bulgaria has a strong social safety net: the
social protection system includes social insurance programs (including unemployment insurance),
social assistance programs, as well as a variety o f active labor market programs (ALMPS) and
employment services.        The PAL program, including this loan, has supported continuous
strengthening of the effectiveness of these programs through Pillars V (social assistance) and I1
(labor market and employment programs). The falling unemployment and poverty in the context
o f continued restructuring of the economy are testimony to the effectiveness o f these programs.
Program improvements under the PALShave been informed by analytical work including the
Poverty Assessment and the Public Expenditure Review (both com leted in 2002), a review o f
Active Labor Market Programs (ALMPs) in Bulgaria in 2001 , as well as other recent
                                                                        8
evaluations commissionedby the govemment including with the support o f PHRD grants under
the PALS.Ongoing evaluations (including the net impact evaluation o f the major ALMP) are
expected to inform future adjustments. A recent update on the effectiveness of social assistance
programs shows that some of the Bulgarian programs - particularly the GMI and energy benefits
programs - rank among the best targeted programs inthe                 Second, specific interventions
under PAL-3 as well as previous PALShave been accompanied by social protection measures.
For example, the energy tariff increases have been structured to minimize the impact on the poor
- through the creation of a first block of ("Social") tariffs, while an annual program of
adjustments to the winter energy benefits program has been implemented, including under PAL-3
to accompany the tariff increases. Similarly, most privatization transactions include social
provisions. For example, provisions accompanying the privatization o f the electricity distribution
companies provide incentives to keep lay offs at optimal levels, while those accompanying the
privatization o f BTC include special severance and training packages. Finally, under the PAL
program, and with the support of an IDF grant, the govemment has significantly enhanced its
own capacity for poverty and social impact analysis andthis analysis is increasingly informing its
strategies.

EnvironmentalAspects

116.     The Bank has reviewed the potential environmental issues in line with OP/BP 8.60
as a matter of good practice, although the timing of the operation precedes formal
requirements for this screening under current Bank policy. This screening identified the
primary environment linkages of the operation with the need to comply with the EU Large
Combustion Plants Directives (LCP) for energy facilities and the need to ensure the adequate
treatment o f potential environmental liability issues inthe process of privatization and liquidation
of state owned property. The ImplementationPlans agreed with the EUinthe negotiations o f the


63 Walsh, K; Kotzeva, M.;Dulle, E; and R. Dorenbos, 2001. "Evaluation of the Net Impact of Active Labor
Market Programs in Bulgaria," Ministry of Labor and Social Policy of Bulgaria, Rotterdam. The study
showed generally positive results for the evaluation of ALMPs in Bulgaria, comparing favorably with the
findings inother countries inCentral and Eastern Europe and Western Europe.
64 Tesliuc, Cornelia (2004), "Social Protection and Poverty Reduction in Bulgaria - an Update," mimeo.
The World Bank.


                                                   60

environment chapter 22 for EU accession, have explicitly taken into account compliance with the
LCP Directive including which energy facilities require the privatization process to address the
requirements o f the Directive. The Bank has previously assisted the government inestablishing a
process for the clarification o f environmental liabilities through a Bulgaria Environmental
Remediation Pilot Project; followed by a Bulgaria Environmental and Privatization Support
Adjustment Loan operation. Both operations were successfully implemented, and have helped to
establish Bulgaria's current system o f pre-privatization environmental audits, compliance plans,
and remediation agreements linked to and enforced through Sales Purchase Agreements in the
privatization process.   Legislative changes and capacity built through piloting and ongoing
implementation o f these now well established programs reflect best intemational practices and
provide a systematic,      comprehensive, and long term program to address and clarify
environmental liabilities. The Environmental Impact Assessment process o f Bulgaria was also
integrated with the environmental liabilities legislation as a mechanism for further addressing
social impacts and involving the public in proposed privatization sales agreements.            The
comprehensive approach o f Bulgaria, and their foresight to introduce these systems early in the
EU accession and privatization process has helped to bring more responsible investors into
Bulgaria, facilitate better transaction prices; and ensure private capital flows into the
retrofittinghefurbishing of industrial enterprises to cleaner technologies. Bulgaria's best practice
model makes them a leader, including amongst existing EU member countries who will be
required to more comprehensively adopt similar systems under recently adopted EU
environmental liability legislation which goes into effect inearly 2007.

Fiduciaryarrangements

Disbursement and auditing

117.      Borrower and Loan Amount. The proposed P A L 3 loan amount is EURO 116.1
million (US$150 million equivalent). The borrower i s the government o f Bulgaria, represented
by the MOF. The proposed PAL-3 is the third o f the three planned adjustment loans totaling up
to US$450 million equivalent as provided for inthe CAS.

 118.     Disbursement. Satisfactory progress in the reforms set forth in the loan will trigger
disbursement o f funds. Disbursement arrangements will reflect the February 1, 1996 Operational
Directive on the Simplification o f Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral
Adjustment Loans. Disbursements will not be linkedto specific purchases, thus evidence will not
be needed to support disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be necessary. Upon
approval of the loan and notification by Bank o f loan effectiveness, the government will submit a
withdrawal application. At the request o f the Government, IBRD will disburse the loan and the
proceeds o f the loan will be deposited inthe Treasury's EURO account inthe Bulgarian National
Bank (BNB), this account being available for budget financing. The loan proceeds will not be
converted into BGN. Prior to that, the Bank will withdraw from the Loan Account a front end fee
equal to 1 percent o f the amount o f the Loan, subject to any waiver o f a portion o f such fee as
may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Ifafter the loan proceeds are deposited inthe
Treasury's account at the BNB, the proceeds are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the
loan agreement, IBRDwill require the borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the Treasury's
account at the BNB available to finance budget expenditure for eligible purposes or (b) refund the
amount directly to IBRD.

 119.     Accounts, Auditing and Closing Date. The government should maintain the account
and records, or should ensure that such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements
were in accordance with provisions o f the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and records will be
maintained in a form compliant with the BNB's accounting legislation which i s acceptable to the
Bank. The Bank had chosen to exercise its prerogative to audit the deposit account under PAL-1


                                                 61

and PAL-2, and the audits were unqualified and acceptable to the Bank. The IMF conducted a
safeguards assessment of the BNB in 2002 and found that safeguards are generally adequate.
Recommendationsby the IMFwere promptly addressed by the BNB. Past audits and the positive
assessment by the IMF provide significant assurance that the loan will not be inappropriately
used. As a result o f the above, no audit will be necessary under PAL-3. The PAL-3 closing date
has been determined as March 31,2006.

Procurement and Financial Management

120.     A Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR) was submitted to the Government in July
2004 and has informed PAL-3 preparation. Specifically the regulatory framework for public
procurement is being improved under PAL-3, and the government has made good progress in the
initial implementation o f the CPAR action plan.

121.     The Bank has extended howledge o f the country's Public Financial Management (PFM)
and fiduciary risk i s considered low. A Country Financial Management Assessment (CFAA) was
prepared in 2003. The CFAA highlighted strong features and significant achievements in Public
Financial Management (PFM), including: (i)     a well developed system; (ii)sound legislation and
                                                                            a
functioning external oversight institutions (namely the National Audit Office and the Parliament);
(iii)enhanced budget process and comprehensiveness- the latter through a significant reduction
o f the number o f extra budgetary funds; (iv) the beginning o f a pilot programmatic approach in
three ministries; (v) the development o f a Treasury Single Account (TSA) to service all budgetary
institutions; (vi) improved realism o f budget estimates; (vii) the restructuring o f the capital
expenditure function; (viii) strengthened cash management; and (ix) an adequate internal
control framework.        In 2003, fiscal transparency was considered high. While the overall
financial management risk to Bank funds was deemed low, the CFAA made important
recommendations - notably in the areas o f controls - that the Government implemented,

community.
including under PAL-2 and PAL-3, and with continued technical assistance from the donor


122.     Under PAL-2, the government developed a comprehensive program for strengthening
public expenditure management. This included actions designed to increase allocative efficiency
and transparency in budget formulation; and to strengthen the budget execution system and
processes.    The government also strengthened the effectiveness o f internal and external
accountability arrangements.      Capital expenditure management processes and systems were
aligned with European Union standards. The government also under PAL-2 moved forward with
the implementation o f the new Financial Management Information System (GFMIS) with the
long-term aim to expand the GFMIS to all spending entities ingovernment.

123.     The government under PAL-3 i s pursuing the reforms achieved under PAL-2, notably
through (i)improving its internal and external audit practices; (ii)introducing performance
standards and reporting on performance for services provided by the public sector; (iii)improving
public expenditure management processes, including introduction o f a medium term fiscal
framework; (iv) expanding budgeting program in nearly half the ministries; (v) introducing
accountability for results; and (vi) improving further the management o f capital expenditures.
Under PAL-3, the government i s also deepening civil service reforms and strengthening
accountability o f the administrative judiciary system.

124.     The government under PAL-3 i s continuing the reform agenda, notably through (i)
introducing performance standards and reporting on performance for services provided by the
public sector, and development and publication o f client charters in various national and 3 sub-
national administrations; (ii)improved public expenditure management processes, including
introduction o f a medium term fiscal framework, expansion o f program budgeting in nearly half


                                                  62

o f all the ministries, introduction o f accountability for results, and improved management o f
capital expenditures. Under PAL-3, the government has also deepened civil service reforms,
notably by strengthening competitiveness and de-politicization o f the civil service, enhancing
accountability and transparency in civil service, increasing the efficiency o f resolution o f
commercial disputes, and strengthening the administrative justice system.

125.     CompliancewithBankPolicies. The loancomplies withall applicable Bankpolicies.

Benefitsand Risks

126.     Benefits. There are five distinct but complementary benefits. First, PAL-3 provides
continuing technical advice as well as financial assistance to help the government achieve the key
goals o f its medium term economic program: to achieve sustained growth and reduce poverty and
unemployment while progressing towards EU accession.               Second, the loan supports the
strengthening of the institutional arrangements required to ensure successful implementation,
coordination, monitoring, and evaluation o f ongoing and future medium term programs. Third,
PAL-3 lays the groundwork for possible further future Development Policy Loans through
identifying specific outcomes to be achieved over the period 2005-07 and preparing and
indicating medium term directions o f reform. Fourth, PAL-3 complements the government's
ongoing investment projects by establishing the enabling policy framework. Fifth, the program
supported by the loan complements and reinforces the IMF program to keep Bulgaria on its
macroeconomic stabilization path.

127.     Risks.There are three mainrisks:

    Political risk remains high, but is mitigated by the maturity of the reform agenda. With the
    outcome o f the forthcoming Parliamentary elections as yet uncertain, this presents risks for
    completing the envisioned legislative changes. Mechanisms established or being established
    for stakeholder consultation are expected to strengthen support for completing the reforms
    and could mitigate this to some extent. There are also moderate risks regarding the continuity
    o f reforms in the medium term. The latter risks are mitigated to a significant degree by the
    strong support from all political parties for Bulgaria's EU accession, which helps to provide
    an anchor for the remaining structural, institutional and social reforms - and particularly the
    reforms to public administration and the judiciary. The risks to reforms beyond PAL-3 are
    further mitigated by the advanced stage o f implementation o f several o f the structural
    reforms, for which the foundation was established under earlier PALs.                  Finally,
    accompanying social protectionmeasures have further mitigated the risks for these reforms.

    Implementation risksfrom weak capacity remain for completing the PAL-3 reforms but also
    for continuing reforms beyond the PALs. The institutional capacity i s uneven across
    government agencies and the impact o f the institutional reforms supported by the PALSi s
    only beginning to be felt. The track record under the P A L program to date, however, bodes
    well for completing and continuing the ongoing reforms. The risk i s further mitigated by
    implementation support for ongoing investment projects, from the Bank and other donors, in
    key areas o fthe reform program.

    The economy faces risks and vulnerabilities. Bulgaria faces several potential risks.       The
    economy i s vulnerable to several parameters including further increases in oil prices, higher
    interest rates, lower than expected FDI flows, and a weaker than expected growth in EU
    economies (the destination o f over 50 percent o f Bulgarian exports and the origin o f more
    than half o f the FDIinflows.) Domestic vulnerabilities include the degree o f effectiveness o f
    measures undertaken to address the rapid growth o f credit to the non-government sector, the



                                                 63

failure to enhance domestic market flexibility consistent with the CBA, and the electoral
cycle's potential pressures on the budget. However, Bulgaria's sustained track record to date,
its better than expected performance in 2004, and its active management o f its extemal debt,
continuation o f prudent fiscal policies, and solid growth performance reduce the scope of
these vulnerabilities.   The mitigation o f these risks is predicated on the continued
maintenance o f strict discipline in macroeconomic policies and the measures in place to
respond to potential risks ifthese were to materialize.




                                            64

                                                                                                                                    Annex 1

                                        Bulgaria at a glance                                                                                9/27/04


                                                                      Europe 8        Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                      Central      middle-
                                                            Bulgaria      Asia       income      1  Developmentdiamond.
2003
Population, mid-year (millions)                                   7.8       473        2,655                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             2,130      2,570        1,480
GNI (Aflas method, US$ billions)                                 16.6     1,217        3,934                                -

Average annual growth, 1997-03                                                                   1
Population (%)                                                   -1.0        0.0         0.9
Labor force (%)                                                  -0.8        0.2         1.2        GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                    Per                                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199743)                                             ~
                                                                                                    capita                               nrollment
Poverty (% of population belownationalpovertyline)                13
Urban population (% of total population)                          70         63           50
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                   72         69           69     11                         -
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                           14         31           32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                11     ,            Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)              100         91           81
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                1          3          10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)              99         103         112            -Bulgaria
    Male                                                          101        104         113      I     -        Lower-middle-income group
    Female                                                        98         102         111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1983        1993      2002         2003
                                                                                                    Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                   17.0        10.8       15.6        19.9
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                       32.9         15.3       19.8        21.7
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                   37.1         38.2       53.1        53.2       1                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          33.1          7.7       13.2        12.0
Gross nationalsavings1GDP                                         5.9       14.9        12.9

Current account balancelGDP                           0.2       -10.1       -5.3         -8.4
Interest paymentslGDP                                 0.6         1.7        2.0          2.0
Total debffGDP                                       10.3      112.4        72.2        66.7
Total debt servicelexports                            3.0         6.2       13.4        11.4
Present value of debffGDP                                                   69.1
Present value of debffexports                                             128.5
                                                                                                                       Indebtedness
                                        1983-93 199303          2002      2003       2003-07
(average annual growth)
GDP                                        -0.4       1.o         4.9        4.3          5.3      '     -Bulgaria
GDP per capita                              0.2       1.9         5.5        4.9          8.2                     Lower-middle-income arouo
                                                                                                             ~
Exports of goods and services             -20.7       7.3         7.0        8.0        10.2


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                    1983        1993
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                          14 5         9 9
Industry                                            603          327
    Manufacturing
Services                                            252          574

                                                                                                                                                   I
Private consumption                                  509         735        68 8        690         4 0 -
General government cOnsumPtion                       15.5        18.9       18.0         19.0
Imports of goods and services                        36.9        45.8       59.8        63.0                      -GO1            -4"GDP



                                                 1983-93 1993-03          2o02          2003        Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averageannual growth)                                                                                                                             I
Agriculture                                          -3 9         6 3        5 5         -1 3       2o
Industry                                             -1 5        -0 8        4 6          7 1
    Manufacturing                                                 4 8        6 5         11 2    I f 0
Services                                              0 6        -08         5 1          3 5        0
Private consumption                                  -0 9         1 3        3 6          6 4
General government Consumption                       -04         -0 8        4 9          7 2
Gross domestic investment'                           -5 1         8 2       10 3         13 8
Imports of goods and services                      -231          103         4 9         14 8


Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
     be incomplete.
1, Refersto gross domestic fixed investment.

                                                                                                           Annex 1


                                                                                                                  Bulgaria

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                1,500 -                                             I
Consumer prices                                  72.8     5.8     2.3
Implicit GDP deflator                     -0.6   51.1     3.8     2.1

Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                  39.4   38.4    40.2
Current budget balance                           -9.3     2.3     2.6                -GDP        deflator   - 0 - C P I
Overall surplusldeficit                         -11.3    -0.6     0.0                                                         I
TRADE
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003     1
(US$ millions)                                                              Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                            3,726   5,692   7,445   115.000 -
 Consumer goods                                        2,002   2,725
 Investment goods                                        753   1,018             -
 Manufactures                                                             10,000

Total imports (ci9                             4,981   7,287   9,923
 Food                                                    218     237       5,000

 Fuel and energy                                       1,451   1,745
                                                                                                                              I
 Capital goods                                  1,333   1,823  2,546           0
                                                                                   97    98    99     00     01     02
Export price index (1995=100)                     93      82      92
Import price index (19951100)                     95      76      86                         Exports            Imports    O3
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         99     108      107

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                             Current account balance to GDP (YO)

Exports of goods and services            9,885 4,898    8,057 10,609
Imports of goods and services            9,829  5,841   9,170 12,487       l5 T
Resource balance                           56    -943  -1,113  -1,878

Net income                               -127    -192   -261    -489
Net current transfers                      109     37     547     692

Current account balance                    38  -1,098   -827   -1,676

Financing items (net)                      164    808   1,555   2,572
Changes in net reserves                  -202     290   -729    -896

Memo:
Reserves including gold (us$mi//iOnS)             960   4,747   6,705
Conversion rate (DEC, /oca//US$)         0.002 0.0276     2.1     1.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1983    1993   2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                             Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     1,739 12,178  11,245 13,241
  IBRD                                            158     958   1,266
  IDA                                               0       0       0                G 2662            A 1266

Total debt service                         300    309   1,121    ,248
  IBRD                                             12      78      93
  IDA                                               0       0       0

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                   0     142     142
  Official creditors                              242   -129       -9
  Private creditors                               -34     483     642
  Foreign direct investment                        40     600    ,153
  Portfolio equity                                  0     -23      -2     I              F 6,660
World Bank program
  Commitments                                     178      50     218      A IBRD
                                                                              -                                 E -Bilateral
  Disbursements                                     3      39     185       8 IDA
                                                                              -         D -Other multilateral   F - Private
  Principal repayments                              0      37      50       C- IMF                             G -Short-term
  Net flows                                         3       2     135
  Interest payments                                12      41      42
  Net transfers                                    -9     -39      92


Development Economics                                                                                                   9/27/04




                                                     66

                                                                                                                     Annex 2

                                         Bulgaria Social Indicators
                                                              Latest single year                  Same regionlincome group

                                                                                                        Europe 8         Lower-
                                                                                                          Central       middle-
                                                       1970-75        1980-85        1997-03                Asia        income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                       8.7            8.9             7.8             472.7         2,655.2
  Growth rate (% annual average forperiod)                  0.5            0.2            -1.o                0.0            0.9
Urban population (% of population)                         57.5          64.5             69.8              62.6            49.7
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                     2.2            2.0             1.3                1.6            2.1

POVERTY
(% ofpopulation)
National headcount index                                                                  12.8
  Urban headcount index
  Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                                    1,980           2,130               2,570          1,480
Consumer price index (1995=100)                                                         4,008
Food price index (1995=100)
INCOMElCONSUMPTlONDISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                                                31.9
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                               6.7
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                             38.9
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
  Health ("9    of GDP)                                                                    3.9                4.3            2.6
  Education (% of GNl)                                                                                        4.3            4.0
  Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                                                  13.6
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
  Total                                                     96              96             90                                 91
      Male                                                  96              96             91                                 92
      Female                                                97              96             90                                 91
Access to an improved water source
(% of population)
  Total                                                                                    100                 91             81
      Urban                                                                                100                 96             94
      Rural                                                                                100                 82             70
Immunization rate
(% of children ages 12-23months)
  Measles                                                                   99              90                 93             78
  DPT                                                                       99              94                 92             84
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)                                                                                          11
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
  Total                                                     71              71              72                 69             69
      Male                                                  69              68              69                 64             67
      Female                                                74              75              75                 73             71
Mortality
   Infant (per 1,000live births)                            28              20              14                 31             32
   Under 5 (per 1,000)                                      32              24              16                 37             40
  Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1,000population)                            172            190             239                317            214
      Female (per 1,000 population)                         106            106             103                137            135
   Maternal (per 100,000 live births)                                                       32
Births attended by skilled health staff ("A)                                                99

CAS Annex 65. This table was produced from the CMU LDB system.                                                           11/29/04
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between 1997 and 1998 due to
change from ISCED76 to ISCED97. Immunization: refers to children ages 12-23 months who received vaccinations before one
year of age.




                                                                67

                                                                                                  Annex 3


                                 Bulgaria Selected Indicators Table
                                              -


                                                Actual              Estimate       Projection
                                    1999      2000     2001   2002     2003   2004    2005    2006   2007

Part A: Main Macro Aggregates

Annual growth rates, calculatedfrom constant 2002price data

 GDP (mp) per capita                  2.9       5.9       7.5   5.5      4.9    6.2     5.9     5.9    5.9
 Totalconsumptionper capita           9.4       6.3       7.8   4.1      7.2    5.3     4.6     4.6    4.6


 GDP at marketprices                  2.3       5.4       4.1   4.9      4.3    5.7      5.5    5.5    5.5
  Total consumption                   8.8       5.7       4.4   3.5      6.6    4.7      4.2    4.2    4.2
    Privateconsumption                9.6       4.4       5.6   3.6      6.4    4.5      4.6    5.9    4.3
  Gross domestic investment
(GDI)                                10.5      13.1     20.2    4.5     16.3   15.9     10.3   11.5   12.1
    Gross dom. fixed investment
(GDFI)                               20.8      15.4     23.3    8.5     13.8   13.5     13.0   15.7   16.4

 Exports(GNFS)                       -5.0      16.6      10.0   7.0      8.0   10.6     12.2   12.2   12.4
   ofwhich Goods                     -4.5      20.4     10.6    9.4     18.0    8.5     12.8   12.8   12.0
 Imports (GNFS)                       9.3      18.6     14.8    4.9     14.8   12.0     11.2   11.2   11.2
   ofwhichGoods                      11.2      17.9     17.7    6.4     22.3   11.4     11.5   10.6   12.7

Savings-investmentbalances, aspercentage of GDP
 Gross Domestic investment           17.9      18.3     20.7   19.8     21.7   23.2     24.7   24.4   25.5
   ofwhich Government investmei       4.8       4.2       4.0   3.2      3.5    3.9      4.5    4.5    6.0

 Foreignsavings                       5.0       5.6       7.2   5.3      9.3    7.5      7.6    6.9    6.7
 Gross national savings              12.9      12.7      13.4  14.5     12.4   15.7     17.1   17.5   18.8
   Governmentsavings                  4.4       3.2       3.2   2.3      2.6    5.6      5.5    5.0    5.4
   Nongovernment savings              8.4       9.5      10.2  12.2      9.7   10.1     11.6   12.6   13.4

 Gross domestic savings              12.1      12.9      13.1  13.2     12.0   13.0     14.3   14.6   15.3

0ther

  GDP inflation                       3.7       6.7       6.7   3.8      2.1    5.1      3.1    3.2    3.2
  Annualaverageexchangerate
(LCUiVSS)                             1.8       2.1       2.2   2.1      1.7    1.6      1.5    1.5    1.5
  Index real average exchangerate
(2002 =loo)                          63.3      66.0

 Terms oftrade index (2002 =loo)     98.6      98.5     108.0  107.5    106.9 109.2    108.0   106.9 106.2
 Incrementalcapital-outputratio
(GDIbased)                            6.5       3.0       4.2   4.1      4.6    3.9      4.4    4.6    4.9
  Importelasticitywith respectto
GDP                                   4.9       3.3       4.3    1.3     5.2    2.0      2.1    1.9    2.3
  Money growth                       13.4      30.8     25.8    11.7    19.6   21.6     21.3   18.1   18.1




                                                         68

                                                                                        Annex 3

                                    Bulgaria SelectedIndicatorsTable
                                             -
                                               (Continued)

     Base-case (mostlike&) projection


                                               Actual          Estimate       Projection
                                     1999  2000     2001   2002   2003   2004   2005     2006  2007
  Part B: Government Finance Indicators

  Percentage of CDP
   Total revenues, of which           38.5  38.8     37.6  36.5   38.4   39.0   38.6    38.1   40.2
     Tax revenues                     29.2  29.9    28.7   27.4   29.8   31.0   30.7    30.6   30.4
    Total expenditures, o fwhich      38.3  39.4     38.2  37.1   38.4   37.3   37.6    37.6   40.8
      Consumption                     16.2  15.7     13.8  14.3   14.7   14.6   13.8     13.8  13.8
    Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)              0.2  -0.6     -0.6  -0.6    0.0    1.8    1.o     0.5   -0.6

    Financing:                        -0.2   0.6      0.6   0.6    0.0   -1.8   -1.o     -0.5   0.6
      Foreign                          1.2  -1.5     -0.3   1.5    0.0   -1.6   -5.0     -0.6  -2.3
      Monetary sector                 -2.5   1.2     -1.7  -1.5    -0.7  -3.2   -0.3     -1.6   2.9
      Other domestic                   1.1   0.9      2.6   0.6     0.7   3.1    4.3      1.7   0.0



    Total Debt/GDPmp                  84.7  80.5     69.8  60.3   48.3   40.7   33.0     30.9  26.8
    Total interest paymentdTax
  revenues                            13.0  13.4     12.9   8.0     7.0   5.9    5.5      5.1   5.1

  Part C: Debt & Liquidity Indicators

  TotalDOD and TDS
    DOD (US$ millions)               11552 10952   10681  10141 12009   15368 16226     17731 18546
    DOD / GDPmp ratio                 89.2  86.9     78.6  65.1   60.5   63.3   57.2     56.9  54.8
    TDS (US$ millions)                936   990     1306   1121   1248   2103   1607    1842   2299
    TDS / exports (XGS) ratio         15.4  13.5     17.2  13.4    10.6  13.8     8.3     8.7  10.1
    Total grossreserves (months'
  imports G&S)                         5.5   5.0      4.7   5.8     5.9   6.4     5.3     5.4   5.2

  Part D: External Financing Plan

   (US$,millions)
      Official capital grants           -2   25         0     0       0     0       0       0     0

      Private investment (net)        602   820      886   799    1857   1164   1188    2344   1352
      Net Longtermborrowing excl
  IMF                                 325    109      -54   136    255   1414    654     278   -469
     Adjustments to scheduleddebt
  service                                0     0        0     0       0     0       0       0     0


'    All other capital flows           92    24      597    620    637   1087   1169      974  2037
   Financing Requirements(incl
  IMF)                                1017  977     1428   1555   2749   3665   3011     3596  2919
      ofwhichcurrentaccountdeficit    652   704      984    827   1856   1813   2166    2136   2253




                                                  69

                                                                                                              Annex 4




                                   Bulgaria Key ExposureIndicators
                                              -

                                                     Actual                    Estimate                Projected
              Indicator                    1999     2000    2001        2002    2003       2004      2005    2006    2007

Totaldebt outstanding and                  11552     10952     10681     10141    12009     15368     16226    17731  18546
disbursed(TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements (US$m)a                   666        492        123       375    1960       1623      259     394     303


Total debt service (TDS)                    936        990      1306      1121     1248      2103      1607     1842   2299
(USSm)a


Debtanddebt serviceindicators
(%I
  TDO~XGS~                                 190.6      149.6     140.8     121.1   102.4      100.7     84.1     83.5   81.3
  TDOiGDP                                   89.2       86.9      78.6      65.1    60.5       63.3     57.2     56.9   54.8
  TDSKGS                                    15.4       13.5      17.2      13.4    10.6        13.8     8.3      8.7   10.1
  ConcessionaVTDO                             1.9       3.3       3.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0


IBRD exposure indicators(Yo)
  IBRDDS/publicDS                             7.6       8.4       6.8       8.5     11.2        7.0     6.3     11.1    9.5
  PreferredcreditorDSipublic                34.9       40.2      50.8      51.3    51.7       23.2     29.8     60.2   45.9
  DS (%)'
  IBRDDS/XGS                                  1.1       1.o       1.1       0.9      0.8        0.7     0.6      0.6    0.7
  IBRD TDO (US$mId                          829        824      844        958    1266       1498     1601     1663   1754
    Ofwhich present value of
    guarantees (US$m)
  Share ofIBRDportfolio (%)                   0.7       0.7       0.7       0.8      1.1        1.3      1.5     1.5     1.6
  IDA TDO (US$mId                               0         0         0         0        0          0       0        0      0


IFC(US$m)
  Loans
  Equity and quasi-equity /C


MIGA




a. Includespublic andpublicly guaranteeddebt, privatenonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
   termcapital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports ofgoods and services, includingworkers' remittances.
c. Preferredcreditorsare defined as IBRD,IDA, the regionalmultilateral developmentbanks, the IMF,and the
   Bankfor InternationalSettlements.
d. Includespresentvalue ofguarantees.
e. Includesequity andquasi-equitytypes ofbothloanand equity instruments.




                                                           70

                                                                                              Annex 5
                                         Government of Bulgaria PAL-3 Letter o f Development Policy
                                                                                           Page 1of 5

                 RUl.CARIA: THIRDPROCRAMMATlC ADJUSTMENTLOAN                   (PAL-3)
                                   LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT        POLICY
                                                                                         May 3,2005


Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstructionand Development
Washington D.C.

Dear Mr. WoIfensoIin:

1.  We appreciate this opportunity to request continuing support from the World Bank for the
implementation of our niediuin term refomi strategy. and, on behalf of the Government of
Hiilgaria, we request a Third Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL-3) for US $150 million
cqiiivaleiit to complete the series of three annual progranmatic loans. We continue to believe
that the Programmatic Adjustment Loans (PALS) provide the appropriate vehicle for Bank
support in addressingour medium term policy and institutional refomi agenda.

2. Building on the reforms of the previous four years, our medium term program between 2002
and 2005 has aimed to sustain economic gowth and further reduce poverty while moving us
towards EU accession. We are generally on track in terms of meeting our program targets
establishcd in PAL-1: the achievement of average aiiiiual growth rates ol' 4.5-5.0 percent during
2002-05. the reduction of the unemployment rate from 18.1 percent in 2001 to 12-14 percent by
end-2005, and the reduction of'the poverty rate by 50 percent by end-2005 compared to the level
at end-2001. Our strategy for growth and poverty reduction continues to revolve around two
major tlienies:

              Crenting an invrstnzent climcur          tliat promotes private sector investment,
              restructuring, and productivity leading to growth. and
              Etnpowering thepopulation, especiallythe poor, to participatein economic growth.

3. To implement our growth and poverty-reduction strategy, we continue to base our medium
term refonn program on five pillars:

              Sirsttriniiig structurcil reform in the enterprise sector, focusing on the coinpletion o f
              privatization and the restructuring o f the energy, railway. telecoiiiiiiunications, and
              walcr sectors;
              Estahli.sliirig (I nzorket-friendly business errvirotznient, focusing on reducing entry
              constraints, accclcrating exits, securing deregulation and reducing regulatory costs,
              improving the delivery of public services to business, improving the competitive
              environment, and improving labor niarket policies;
              Deepening the ,finrinciol system, improving the legal framework for lending,
              completing banking refomi, and developing financial markets;
              hiiprtwing public sector governonce, strengthening the public administration
              capacity.     improving      service delivery,   reducing corruption,      strengthening
              accountability and transparency, strengtheningpublic expenditure nianagemcnt, and
              increasingthe efficiency and effectiveness of thejudicial system; and




                                                    1

                                                                                           Annex 5
                                      Government of Bulgaria PAL-3 Letter of Development Policy
                                                                                         Page 2 o f 5

          e  Iiirwsting in liuninn crtpital anlf strengthening socicil protection, improving quality.
             access and efficiency in education and health, continuing pension reforms, increasing
             social assistance effectiveness, providing for bctter integration of the disabled, and
             reducing tlie institutionalization o f children.

4. With the support o f the PALS, we have inade substantial progress towards meeting or
exceeding the objectives of our medium tenn structural reform program. We have maintained
average aiinual growth rates during 2002-05 at 5.1 percent and have reduced unemployment
dramatically. Poverty is also falling and living standards are gradually improving. We have
coinpleted the European Union (EU) accession negotiations. We signed the accession treaty on
April 25 2005. and we expect to join tlie union in 2007, as planned.

5.   We have maintained macroeconomic stability as a precondition for the effectiveness and
sustainability o f the above program. We will maintain the Currency Hoard Arrangement (CBA)
until acccssion to the European Monetary Union (EMU). The CBA has served Bulgaria well,
providing a stable monetary environment, contributing to low inflation, and boosting confidence.
We are fully convnitted to take all o f the necessary steps to support it. We will continue to
implement a cautious and flexible fiscal policy, which is a kcy to safeguarding extemal viability
under the CBA. We have aimed to reach, and then maintain, a broadly balanced fiscal stance in
ihc medium term, remaining prepared to adjust our fiscal policy in case o f further widening o f the
cxtcriial current account deficit.

6. On August 6, 2004 tlic IMF Board approved a 25-inontli precautionaiy Stand-By
Arraiigeinent (SRA), equivalent to SDRl00 million to support the government's economic
program for 2004-06. For 2005, we have made a commitment to run an overall fiscal surplus o f
at least 1percent of GDP while maintaining the flexibility o f 1percent of GDP if extenial current
account deficits should widen beyond, or FDI flows fall short of those expected in our program,
or if tighter fiscal policy should be required by such domestic developments as further
acceleration of inflation. The Bulgarian National Rank has also taken actions in the banking
sector to control tlie rapid credit growth.

7.    In the course of preparing tlie Third I'rogranimatic Adjustment Loan (PAL,-3), we have
[urtlier developed and iniplemented various components of our reform program as initially
defined during the preparation o f the first two PALS. The final design of PAL-3 has benefited
from a strong monitoring and evaluation system, inipleniented in coordination with the Bank.
This has enabled us to take actions necessary to ensure the sustained implementation of policies
a i d tlie succcssfiil outcomes of iiistitiition-buildiiig efforts.The programmatic approach has
provided us with the flexibility to make sound adjustments In our program and to build on new
inforination and additional experience in institutional design and implementation in moving
towards the successful achievement of our strategic objectives and program outcomes.

8.   This Letter o f Development Policy sunmarizes the elements of our program supported by
PAL-3 in conipleting the prograni as envisioned, while the refomi program outconies and the
critical steps taken to achieve those outcomes are suminarized in the accompanylng Matrix of
Performance Benchmarks and Desired Outcomes. We believe that the key policy anchors for
Bulgaria will continue to be finnly in place beyond the forthcoming elections, including
Bulgaria's accession to the EUby January 2007, and the CBA, which has broad political support,
and we anticipate that Bulgaria will continue to sustain and build 011 thc achievements o f the three
PA1,s, beyond our own political mandate,which ends InJune.



                                                     2

                                                                                      Annex 5
                                    GovernmentofBulgariaPAL-3 Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy
                                                                                   Page3 of5


Pillar I: SustainingStructural Reforms.

9. With PAL-3 we have nearly completed our reform agenda for Pillar Iand have exceeded
many targets, especially in privatization. We have nearly completedour privatization program,
which has focused on infrastructure State Owned Enterprises(SOEs). We have completed our
envisioned plans to fundamentally overhaul the energy sector through completing our tariff
adjustmentprogramas envisioned, and have exceeded our targets for private sector entry in the
energy and telecommunicationssectors. We have continuedto undertakeactions to improve the
fiscal sustainabilityofrailways.

10, Bulgaria's mediumterm focus will be on addressinginfrastructurebottlenecks, particularlyin
water and in transport. Inthe water sector, we recognizean apparent contradiction ktween our
strategyto promote public-privateventures and our efforts to effectively absorb EUgrant funds,
We are urgentlycommittedto resolvingthis dilemma.

Pillar 11: EstablishingaMarket-friendly BusinessEnvironment

11. While the liquidation of loss-making SOEs and the implementation of the privatization
program have increased productivity, we are aware that future growth requires the continued
implementationof reforms aimed at establishinga business environmentthat is conduciveto the
emergence and growth of dynamic private sector enterprises. We have made considerable
progressunderthe PAL programandPAL-3 inimprovingthe business environment, inparticular
through deregulation and improvements in the efficiency of front line government services to
businesses -includingcustoms offices and services for foreign investors. It is important to note
that, under PAL-3, we havetaken significant steps to improvethe conditionsfor the entry of new
firms.

12. Bulgaria's mediumterm focus will continueto include actionsthat will improve the business
climate for the entry, exit and operation of new firms. In particular, we are committed to
completing the reforms in businessentry initiated under PAL-3, and will enact during the last
quarterof 2005, the legislationneededto transfer businessregistrationfrom the courts andjudges
to a non-judicialadministrativeprocess.

Pillar 111: Deepeningthe FinancialSystem

13. In order to focus Bank assistance on other more pressing areas, we did not request support
under PAL-3 on this pillar of our program. We have now fully developed our institutional
framework for the Banking sector, as we move forward, financial sector reforms will focus
mainlyonnon-banks.

Pillar IV:ImprovingPublicSector Governance

14. Under PAL-3, we have begun to implement the broad program to improve public sector
govemance that we developedin the earlier PALS. We have madeparticularlyimportant strides
in professionalizing our civil service. All newly recruited civil servants (at the national and
regional levels) were recruited through external competitive recruitment in 2004. We have also
increased the competitivenessof civil service pay and have implementedperformance rewards
throughout our civil service. In addition, we have significantly increased accountability and



                                               3

                                                                                           Annex 5
                                     Government o f Bulgaria PAL-3 Letter o f Development Policy
                                                                                         Page 4 of 5

transparency in tlie civil servicc aiid under P A L 4 we have adopted a code of ethics that will
improvc administrative procedures, reduce inappropriate discretion on the part of the civil
service, and clarify accountability arrangements. llnder PAL-3, we have also taken important
steps to further improve the transparency and accountability of the judiciary, as well as to
significantly  increase the efficiency o f dispute adjudication processes through promoting
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, expanding the administrative courts systcni, and
enhancing the quality of legal services.

15. Notwithstanding these achievements - which provide a good platform for continuing the
significant institution and capacity building agenda that i s ahead o f us as we prepare for
successful integration into the EU -we acknowledge that we are still only about a year and a half
into what is typically at least a four or five year refonn agenda. We realize that the numerous
legislative changes adopted in the past two years will require serious implementation efforts in
order to bring about visible improvements in the functioning of our public services and our courts
system. We are fully committed to pressing ahead with our effoits in govemance reforms,
including depoliticizing the civil service, reducing corruption. rationalizing and reorganizing our
government structures and improving public service delivery at the central aiid local levels,
improving tlie effectiveness o f public expenditure management, and iiioving forward aggressively
with establishing a more accountable and independentjudiciary.

Pillar V: Investing in Human Capital and Strengthening Social Protection

16. Under P A L 3 we have completed the implementation o f our action plan for pcnsion reform
defined in PAL-I, and have increased the stability and robustness of our pension system. It is
iinportant to note that we have launched significant refomis in health and education. In education,
wc have taken significant steps to increase tlie integration o f children froin ethnic minorities into
schoolst and to reduce incentives for dropping out o f primary education. In health care, we have
focused our efforts especially in the hospital sector, making significant advances in improving
financing mechanisms and in launching the restructuring o f hospitals to align services with the
Iiealth caw needs of the population. We have also strengthened tlie institutional structures arid
capacity to improve public health outcoines and reduce the incidence ol' tobacco-related health
risks. Finally, we have made important strides to address social inclusion through our refonns in
the area of disability and child protection.

 17. EU accession brings with it the need for Bulgaria to position itself to compete in a global
marketplace, to develop human capital capable of adapting to an iiicreasingly dynamic work
cnv~ronnient,and to increase social inclusioii and reduce disparities. We are aware that we have a
large agenda ahead to fully implement tlie reforms that we have initiated in order to improve the
quality of our health aiid education services while improving their cfficicncy and fiscal
sustainability. and that visible improvements will need persistent efforts over several years. Inthe
case o f education and training, we will press ahead with our strategy to increase the relevance of
the skills of' current and future entrants into the labor force while aligning our govemance and
tinancing structures to support these objectives. In the case of health care, we will complete the
restructuring of our hospital sector to improve quality and fiscal sustainability. The future reforni
agenda will also iiecd lo aggrcssively address issucs o f acccss, infoniial payments and corrupt
practices, and to define future directions for health insurance to improve its financial
sustainability. We expect to revise our legislation to support these strategic directions in healtli
and education in the coming year. Finally, we will fully implement the reforms that we have




                                                  4

                                                                                          Annex 5
                                     GovernmentofBulgaria PAL-3 Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
                                                                                        Page 5 of 5

started to date - to reduce the social exclusion of minorities, to integrate thc disabled into the
labor force. and to reduce the institutionalization of children and other vulnerablegroups.

18. We would likc to reiterate that the Bulgarian Government is committed to accelerating
refoniis and, in particular, to sustaining and continuing the reform agenda needed for the EU
accession as defined above. A new government program will further define the specific actions
in the months ahead. We look forward to the World Bank's supporting Bulgaria in its
dcvelopment program including through development policy loans focusing on the future reform
agenda for successful iiltegation into the EU.




                                          Sincerely yours,
             I




                            c                                                           #-




                Mi1ko Kovachev
              Minister of Economy                                  Minister ofFinance




Sofia, Bulgaria
May 3,2005




                                                   5

    0          0     0     0     0




    0     0    0       0     0




0    0          0       0

               sx




 0




           0




0     0    0       0

   a                  a    a




     a    a      a




a              a

0    0   0     0




     0          0       0




     0    0          0   0

                      e,
             3       .3




                              0     0




0  .    0         0      0    0    0

 rc
 0




0            0   0            0

t




 .-e,

         a         a   a         a   a    a




              a             a    a    a




a   a               a


                                  a
                                  s

     a




a

a   a




*      a     a   e    m   a




a       a           a      a    a

 *
 0         a  x       v)
              s




            e




e           e                   e

    * 0 h




            e     e        e

0    0    0

      b    b    b




     b




3
i
2

a            a    a




   a    a    a




             a

     m




0

           L




0    0    0     0




     e



      D    0




a
r(




4




v1
3
5
I

h
T




  J2


                   e




  2
  h




M
a-       e    e    e    e




  r I
  c'
  d

                   e        e    e


     0         0            0    0




p;'
J
2


     0    0       0    0    0

a
4

e         e         e




e    e         e

        e    e    e




e    e

9




                    0        0  0




0         0         0         0        0




0      0       0    0   0      0   0

  rc
  0

              m




e    0




e   e    e




              cl
              d

                z0




          s:      >




e
g
J
I




L

.-.-ze
*
e

20
E
c

L
.-ee
Y


E

         v1
      .I




         cc
         0                            8     bn
                                          sE
                                           .C

                                           E
                                      Y
                                      a,




                                      *
                                     .I
                                      5cdg  a,
                                          E
                                           G
                                       cd   0
         a     8                      N    a
               Y
               a,                     .-Y
         9                             cd
                                       >    8
          g                           .e


         .I
         Y      c
          cd                          2L
            .I *0
                                       E8
         .e
          N                            >
         Y      cd
          cd
          >   .e
               +N

          L
         .3     cd
                >
             `E
              -3
         .C
         *2
          a,
          !3
         3
                                           P
          8   -28Do                        sa,x
               Y

                                       a,  a
                                       E    0
             3s                       e
                                      .C    El>a
             6  a,                          4


          cd  a                             8
         rcl                                +
                                            a,
          0     %b                           cd
         a
         2i9  .32>                          3
                E                     -3
                                      Y
                                       cd
                                       N              n
                                      .C
                                      Y                u
                                                       b
                              v1       $
                                                    v1 co
                             Y

                            +9        `E.              W
                                                   .e
                                                    a,
                                      rcl
                             pi        0     a,        9x
                              b

                             e,       -@   E
                                             bo     8  &
                                            .I
                                             c
                                      .4
                                       Y
                                       a,
                                            Y8
                a,                     0
              6                        0
                           b                 @
              s                             c


              `2          a c               .e
                                             &
.I
f                             cd
.z                         5  w              C
                                            .I
P                   GI
                    .e
                    C        v,
u                            m
                     cd
                     >
  y                 u2      h 0
                a,  *
                    a,       Y     ..
   %          B     * a
                     cd       3
                              0
   5M         cc
                0  e,                       Yg         .3

                M      3ka   9a,             0         58M
                                                       e
   m
   1           `E3c                         4
                             b3             .e         1
              .e                            Y          m
               tA       m                   tA
                                             cd        ci


                                                                                     Annex 7

                          Bulgaria: IMF-World Bank Relations

                     A. Partnership inBulgaria's DevelopmentStrategy

1.      The government's economic program has been underpinnedby a conservative fiscal
policy and significant progress with structural reforms. So far Bulgaria has made substantial
progress towards long-term macroeconomic stability-an      important step along the way to its
ultimate goals o f improving living standards and accession to the EU. The wide-ranging
reforms in the government's agenda hinge on the continuing challenge o f macroeconomic
stability in the context o f the Currency Board Arrangement (CBA), sustaining structural
reforms and establishing a business environment conducive to growth, together with
improved governance, a deeper financial system, and investment in human capital and
physical infrastructure.

2.      The IMF has been leading in supporting Bulgaria's medium-term program in
maintaining macroeconomic stability. Building on the achievements o f the three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) arrangement with Bulgaria, in February 2002 the IMF Board
approved a two-year Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) with Bulgaria. The SBA, with a reduced
scope and detail o f structural conditionality compared to the EFF, focused on medium-term
fiscal challenges and structural reforms with significant macroeconomic, typically fiscal,
implications. In August 2004, the IMF Board approved a 25-month precautionary SBA
(endingSeptember 2006) inan amount o f SDRlOOmillion.

3.      The World Bank has been leading the policy dialogue in structural and institutional
reforms aiming at (i)   promoting competitive private sector-led growth; (ii)strengthening
market institutions and improving both corporate and public sector governance; and (iii)
mitigating the social impact o f restructuring and delivering social services more effectively.
InMay 2002 the Board ofDirectorsdiscussedthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ofthe
Bankwhich outlined the roadmap for the Bank'scountry support for the period 2002-04. In
addition to the Bank's ongoing lending operations in areas such as health, child welfare,
water, trade and transport, environment, land registration and cadastre, the CAS includes a
three-year programmatic adjustment lending (PAL) program o f up to three PALSo f up to
US$l50 million each. In February 2003, the Board o f Directors approved the first P A L
operation-it  aimed at advancing structural, regulatory, and institutional reforms in the real
and financial sectors. InJune 2004, the Board o f Directors approved the second PAL (PAL-
2), which aims at supporting improvements in public sector governance. The third PAL
(PAL-3) i s currently under preparation with expected Board approval in June 2005. The
Bank continues to undertake substantive country diagnostics providing a solid base for policy
dialogue and design and implementation o f its lendingoperations inBulgaria.

                    B. IMF-World Bank Collaborationin Specific Areas

4.      Ingeneral, the Bank has the lead on the dialogue on the core structural aspects ofthe
reforms while the Fund has the lead on the dialogue on the macroeconomic, typically fiscal,
aspects o f the reforms. There are a number of areas where the IMF leads and its analyses
serve as inputs into World Bank policy formulation and advice, including policies to
maintain macroeconomic stability, fiscal policies, income policies and external sector
policies. There are other areas in which the Bank and the Fund share responsibility and are

                                                                                      Annex 7

coordinating closely their policy advice to the Bulgarian authorities such as in the financial
sector, public expenditure management and budgeting, and tax administration. Insome areas,
the Bank has taken the lead but its analysis, country diagnostic work, and policy
recommendations served as inputs into the Fund's policy advice on the fiscal front such as
education, health care, pensions, social protection, energy, and railways. In areas such as
private sector development, strengthening market institutions (including entry and exit
policies, regulatory reform to enhance the business climate, judicial reform, labor market
reform), and improving governance the Bank has the lead and there has been little
conditionality under Fund programs. In addition to consultations early in the process o f
formulating and adjusting each institution's program with Bulgaria, the Bank and Fund staff
teams interact extensively during the review o f the progress achieved in the country and
coordinate closely their policy advice to the Bulgarian authorities.

B.l.     Areas where the IMFleadsand its analysesserve as inputsintothe World Bank
                                policyformulation and advice.

5.      To achieve the objectives of their economic program, the Bulgarian authorities are
fully committed to maintain sound and flexible macroeconomic policies centered on a
Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) and implement an ambitious reform agenda. In
particular, the authorities have maintained a very tight fiscal policy since 1998, attaining a
surplus o f 1.8 percent o f GDP in 2004. The aim is to have at least one percent surplus in
2005, conduct fiscal policy flexibly inthe face o f shocks, and maintain a high level o f fiscal
reserve assets. Given the constraints o f the CBA, the authorities see labor market policies as
another key component o f the broad policy strategy. A strict incomes policy for the state
enterprise sector is enforced and measures aimed at facilitating the adjustment o f labor
markets are beingimplemented. The structural and institutional reforms, which constitute the
thirdpillar o fthe policy strategy, are focused on creating a fully functioning market economy
that is competitive and can flexibly adjust to shocks.

6.      In the context of a 25-month Stand-By Arrangement that was approved in August
2004, the IMF continued to lead in assisting Bulgaria in safeguarding macroeconomic
stability and promoting structural reforms in areas that are macro-critical and fall within the
Fund's core expertise. To safeguard the CBA and ensure that it can continue to serve as the
macroeconomic policy anchor, the IMF set a floor on the size o f the overall surplus o f the
general govemment and a ceiling on central government arrears. To prevent threats to the
currency board and macroeconomic stability that could arise from a loss in competitiveness
or excessive external financing requirements, Fund conditionality also included ceilings on
the wage bill o f those state enterprises that have the largest losses and arrears, are
monopolies, and receive subsidies, and on the contracting and guaranteeing o f public sector
external debt.

                            B.2.    Areas of shared responsibility.

7.      Financia1Sector. Inlate 2001, staff of the two institutions carried out a joint IMF-
World Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) for Bulgaria, providing a shared
perspective on the development agenda o f the country and on the prioritization and
sequencing of reforms in the financial sector. Key findings o f the FSAP are conditionalities
on financial   sector policies under both the SBA and the PAL program. The IMF has

                                                2

                                                                                               Annex 7

emphasized aspects related to the banking sector-mainly             on policies under the mandate o f
BNB and supervisory agencies-while            the World Bank is focusing on policies that affect
market performance and development o f the financial sector such as improving the legal and
institutional framework for lending, restructuring o f the banking sector, strengthening
creditor rights, corporate insolvency and governance, and non-banking financial sector
issues. A follow-up o f the FSAP was undertaken by Fund staff in the context o f the 2004
Article IV consultationmission inMarch-April 2004.

8.      Since 1997, in the context o f two Finance and Enterprise Adjustment Loans
(FESALs), andnow with the PALprogram, the Bank has supported the government insector
restructuring of the financial sector. Privatization of commercial banks has been a major
component o f the FESALs, while the Fund provided support for the institution building
efforts o f the BNB and its Banking Supervision Department in particular. In the financial
sector, the Bank has focused on banking, insurance, pension funds, and capital markets while
the Fundhas continued its focus on the BNB, banking supervision, andthe payments system.

9.      Revenue Administration. The IMF and the World Bank have been carrying out a
joint effort since 1996 to assist Bulgaria inreforms aimed at the establishment o f an efficient
revenue collection agency. Diagnostics consistently pointed to revenue collection
deficiencies including weak management, and problematic audit and enforcement o f
collection, which in turn facilitates low compliance. Supporting reform efforts, the World
Bank implemented a project to modernize the Social Security Institute, includingits revenue
collection activities. The IMF provided a long-term advisor to the Ministry o f Finance, and
focused advisory services through consulting assignments. Joint World Bank-IMF efforts
resulted in a proposal for "Implementing a Modern Revenue Collection Agency" in March
2000, which is now moving forward. The World Bank's Board approved on June 5,2003 the
Revenue Administration Reform Project (RARP, 3 1.9 million), developed with technical
assistance o f the IMF, to support the establishment of the national revenue agency (NRA),
which seeks to maximize the level o f voluntary taxpayer compliance, promote effectiveness
and efficiency, establish a professional workforce and approach to collection, and help
reduce the scope for corruption. To support the reform o f the revenue administration, the
IMF included inthe current SBA as prior actions the parliamentary approval o f the Bulstat
legislation, the approval on first reading o f the Tax and Social Contributions Procedural Code
to Parliament, and the submission to Parliament o f a package o f new tax laws (Personal
Income Tax Law, Corporate Income Tax Law, V A T Law, and Excise Tax Law). The
approval o f the Code i s structural performance criterion, while the approval o f the four tax
laws is a structuralbenchmark inthe current SBA.

 10.     Public Expenditure Management.The Bank has taken the lead in the dialogue on
the efficiency and effectiveness o f public expenditures and has outlined policy directions in
the context o f the Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR)' which are being
further supported by the PAL program. The PEIR has also been a useful input to the IMF
program. The PEIR notes that notwithstanding progress to date, important challenges remain
in: (i)improving management and accountability in the use o f public resources; (ii)
restructuring and rationalizing intersectoral public expenditure-particularly               energy and
railways, economic services, defense and security, and general services; (iii)           reallocation of
`The  PEIRis entitledBulgaria: Public Expenditure Issues and Directionsfor Reform, August 2002, The World
Bank,(ReportNo. 23979-BUL)

                                                     3

                                                                                         Annex 7

intrasectoral priorities-especially   inhealth, education, and social protection; and (iv) higher
investment requirements in many sectors-infrastructure        and environment-some       o f which
are priorities for EU accession, and some o f which should involve the private sector. The
PEJR notes that Bulgaria's main fiscal challenges include working towards an improved
allocation o f expenditures, while gradually reducing the overall level o f expenditures over
the medium term in tandem with Bulgaria's fiscal targets o f easing the overall tax burden,
especiallypayroll taxes.

11.     The IMF has provided long-term technical assistance on budgeting and expenditure
management. To ensure the fiscal discipline necessary to support the CBA, the government
has already initiated a number o f public expenditure management reforms. New budget
procedures were introduced in early 2002 and were implemented for the 2003 budget.
Despite this important progress, the P E R notes that there is a need to continue and broaden
the reform effort-capital expenditure proposals should be prepared under hard budget
constraints and as an integral part o f the medium-term budget frameworks; and the financial
management at the local level should be strengthened. These reforms are also supported by
the Bankthroughthe PALprogram.

 B.3.   Areas where the World Bank leads and its analyses serve as inputsinto the IMF
                                 policy formulation and advice.

12.     Energy sector. The Bank has played the lead role in assisting the government inthe
design o f the reform program in the sector, and more importantly on its implementation.
After the completion o f the Energy Project at end-2000, the Bank has continued to support
the developmental objectives o f the sector to increase the energy efficiency. Under the PAL
program, the government has strengthened the legal and regulatory framework, removed
major price distortions and initiated steps to enable the private sector to assume an increasing
share o f commercial risks. Policy recommendations have been outlined in the Bank Energy
and Environment Review completed in 2002, which aimed at also evaluating altemative
strategies to balance the need for economic development and environmental protection. In
June 2003 the Bank's Board approved two district heating projects to support the
rehabilitation of the Sofia and the Pemik District Heating Companies. The Fund's and the
Bank's teams have worked collaboratively in close consultations with the government, and
the previous SBA included a performance criterion focusing on implementation o f the
schedule for bringingelectricity prices to full cost recovery level, and two benchmarks-ne
on implementation o f the new regulatory pricing regime, and the other on preparing a new
EnergyAct to harmonize Bulgaria's legislation with EUDirectives.

 13.    Railways. The Bank has been the government's main external partner in the
transformation o f the railway sector, particularly through the Railway Rehabilitation Project,
which was completed in June 2002. This transformation i s at present only halfway achieved.
Some essential measures have been implemented under the PAL program, especially the
divestiture o f all railway ancillary activities, securing a major staffing optimization, signing a
Public Service Contract, and completing the institutional separation o f the national company
into two new infrastructure and rail services enterprises together with the opening o f rail
services to private operators. Key remaining steps include completion o f the tariff reform,
further staff optimization, and improved corporate governance. They were refined in the
context o f the recent PEIR and are being supported by the Bank through the PALS.Detailed

                                                   4

                                                                                                   Annex 7

assistance with the design o f these reforms will be further provided through transport sector
work inthe near future.

14.       Education. The reform efforts in the education sector aim at improving expenditure
management in view o f the declining population, especially in school age, and at enhancing
quality and access to education. The main priority in the education sector, including
universities, is to reallocate expenditures from surplus capacity in teaching staff and
underused facilities toward modernization and upgrading o f curricula, textbooks, teaching
materials, schools, and other quality-enhancing education inputs. The Bankhas supported the
government program in education through the Education Modernization Project loan (closed
on March 31,2004), the PALs, and the analytical work done for the Poverty Assessment, the
PEIR, and the Inter-governmental Finance stud?. Under PAL-2 the government developed a
concept for an education reform strategy and action plan, the implementation o f which i s
being supported through PAL-3.

15.       Health care. Key reform priorities in the health sector include addressing the
concurrent problems o f surplus capacity issues inhealth facilities, the serious deterioration in
the quality o f facilities and health services, and the inadequate modernization of equipment.
At the same time, the government needs to ensure the financial integrity o f the NHF,which
i s the central point o f the reforms inthe sector. For a long time the Bank has been supporting
the restructuring o f the health sector through the Health Sector Restructuring Project which
was closed at end-2001. The follow-up Health Sector Reform project approved in late 2000
i s under implementation and focuses on the administrative and information systems o f the
NHIF,and supports the ambulatory care sector and the hospital sector. The reform agenda in
the health sector has been supported through the PALs, with PAL-3 focusing on the
implementation o f the action plan for the hospital restructuring.

16.       Social protection programs. Social protection programs-pensions,                     labor market
programs, social assistance, and short-term and family benefits-have                      a wide coverage
among the population. On pensions, one reform priority i s to improve compliance with, and
coverage of, the public pillar. Ensuringsuccessful implementation o f the pension reform has
been supported through the PALs. During FY04, the preparation o f a policy-oriented note
has supported the pension policy dialogue. On labor market programs, there i s a need to
monitor these closely to improve their effectiveness and long-term impact in stimulating
labor demand. Subject to progress in key reforms, consideration should be given to reduce
the tax burden related to labor market policies in order to curtail labor costs.3 Some social
assistance and benefit programs have become more pro-poor since the mid-1990s and are
playing a major role in alleviating poverty. However, given the plethora o f these programs,
and the complexity o f program design in many cases, a constant challenge o f the social
protection system as a whole i s to consolidate the system driven by improving targeting o f
vulnerable groups, and engage in systematic monitoring o f the programs, their costs and
effectiveness to ensure fiscal sustainability.




  Issues in Intergovernmental Relations, the World Bank, January 27, 2004, Report No. 25821-BUL.
  However, such fiscal adjustment requires increasing efficiency inpublic expenditures, and lowering public
expenditures to GDP before implementing tax reductions.

                                                       5

                                                                                      Annex 7

17.     The Bank has been the main partner of the government in its efforts to address
poverty reduction and meet its social development objectives. The main findings o f the
Poverty Assessment and the P E R contribute significantly to the enhanced policy dialogue
with the government on its policy options to improve living standards in the country, and
increase the effectiveness and adequacy o f its social protection programs. The Bank is
assisting these important reforms in the social protection system through providing grants
amounting to US$2.2 million. The latter focus on poverty monitoring and evaluation,
integration o f ethnic minorities, child development and building social capital in
disadvantaged communities. A Bank-financed Child Welfare Reform project helps address
the needs o f children in public care, while a Bank-financed Social Investment and
Employment Promotion (SIEP), which supports community and employment creation and
strengthening o f ALMPs, was approved in 2002. The IMF has been also monitoring the
sustainability o f the pension system and the advancing o f the labor market reforms in terms
of their relevance for the Fund's program objectives.

   B.4.     Areas where the WorldBank leads andthere is no directIMFinvolvement.

18.     Private Sector Development. Bulgaria has completed the divestiture o f about 95
percent (based on value o f assets) o f its non-infrastructure state-owned enterprises (SOEs)
since 1995. To encourage the entry o f new firms and the expansion o f existing ones, the
business climate will have to continue to improve focusing on reducing barriers to entry,
reducing compliance cost o f the regulatory regime, developing a competitive environment,
and establishing an efficient exit mechanism for non-viable enterprises. Under the PAL
program, major changes inthe basic legislationhave been initiated - notably the Commercial
Code, the Civil Procedure Code, and the Labor Code, and the passage o f legislation on how
the State will regulate economic activity to ensure stability and predictability o f regulatory
regimes.

19.     In the context of the two Finance and Enterprise Adjustment Loans (FESALs)
and the PAL program, the Bank has supportedthe governmentin sector restructuring
of the non-infrastructure enterprise sector. Privatization o f SOEs has been a major
component o f the FESALs. Under PAL-1 and PAL-2, the Bank has led the dialogue on
reforms covering the regulatory regimes, the insolvency process, and competition.

20.     Public sector governance. The government is pursuing a broad program to improve
public sector governance including strengthening the capacity o f the public administration,
improving service delivery, reducing corruption, andreforming the judiciary. The support o f
this program has been the main focus of PAL-2. The policy, legal and institutional
framework has been developed and put in place to strengthen merit and depolitization.
Performance standards for service delivery have been developed and one-stop shop
principles have been introduced in five central administrations and six regional
administrations. The system o f performance appraisal and professional development within
the state administration has been enhanced. Concrete steps have been undertaken to increase
accountability and transparency - the conflict o f interest and asset declaration regime has
been strengthened; a monitoring system to track progress in meeting the anti-corruption
objectives has been designed; key ministries and agencies have prepared detailed and
practical anticorruption action plans.



                                               6

                                                                                                                       Annex 7


                     C. The WorldBank Group Strategy and LendingOperations

21.        The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria4,discussed by the Bank's
Board on M a y 9, 2002, focuses on three main themes: (i)                             promotion o f competitive private
sector led growth, (ii)strengthening public administration reforms and anti-corruption
initiatives, and (iii)mitigating the social impact o f restructuring and delivering social
services more effectively.

22.        ProgrammaticAdjustment Lending.Up to three Programmatic Adjustment Loans
(PALS),the first two, PAL-1 and PAL-2, were approved by the BoardinFebruary 2003 and
June 2004, respectively, 'and the third one is under preparation. The PAL program supports
the government's reforms aiming at: (a) completion o f privatization and restructuring in
energy and infrastructure; (b) improving the environment for private sector led growth; (c)
deepening the financial sector; (d) reducing poverty and improving human capital, and better
delivery of social services; and (e) support public administration reform and anti-corruption
programs.

23.        The World Bank's assistance program in Bulgaria to date comprises 37
operations for a total original commitment of US$1,987.2 million equivalent. This
includes eleven adjustment loans (US$1,075.8 million), 19 investment projects (US$750.7
million), one debt reduction loan (US$125.0 million),                                      four Bank-managed Global
Environmental Fund (GEF) grants, and two Bank-managed Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF)
operations. Ofthese 37 operations, 24 have beencompleted, o f which ten have been partially
cancelled during implementation, and thirteen operations are currently under implementation
(see Table 1below). In addition, a grant by the Institutional Development Fund, in the area
of regulatory reforms in infrastructure, was approved in February 2005 in the amount o f
US$381,000.

24.        IFC's ActivitiesinBulgariacomprise25 projects(totalingUS$293 million)inthe
support of financial sector development, gas production, tourism and restructuring of
post-privatized companies. O f those, 20 projects were approved from 1999-on. In the
financial     sector, IFC has supported two specialized SME banks, established Bulgaria's first
micro lending bank, and has invested in a leasing company and in a venture capital fund.
Also, IFC has invested in a number o f key manufacturing projects covering cement
production, electronic assembly, pulp and paper mill, and copper processing. InFY04 alone,
IFC has committed about US$90 million to support post-privatization restructuring o f a steel
milland glass processing plants.

25.        Economic and Sector Work. The country diagnostic work recently completed
includes: Country Financial Accountability Assessment, Survey on Rural Development
Needs, Issues in Inter-govemmental Relations, Environmental Sequencing Strategies for EU
Accession, and the National Energy Efficiency Study. Other country diagnostic work being


  `Memorandum of the President of the International Bankfor Reconstruction and Development and the International Finance Corporation
to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Groupfor Bulgaria, May 31,2002.


  Program Documentfor a Proposed Programmatic Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Bulgaria, The World Bank, January23,2003,
Program Document for a Proposed Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Bulgaria, The World Bank,May 4,2004.

                                                                    7

                                                                                                                   Annex 7

completed includes an infrastructure and energy study, a roads study, and a Country
Economic Memorandum focused on policy reforms for growth.

         Table 1. Bulgaria:ActiveWorld BankOperations(net of cancellations)a'

        Operation                                                                           US s million       Board
                                                                                                               Date
 1.
 '      Trade and Transport Facilitationin Southeast Europe                                     7.4             2000
 2.     Health Sector Reform                                                                    63.3            2000
 3.     Child Welfare Reform                                                                    8.0             2001
 4.     Registrationand Cadastre                                                                30.0            2001
 5.     Wetlands RestorationandPollution Reduction(GEF Grant)                                   7.5             2002
 6.     SocialInvestmentand EmploymentPromotion                                                 50.0            2002
 7.     RevenueAdministrationReformProject                                                      34.2            2003
 8.     District HeatingProject                                                                 34.2            2003
 9.     Wood Residueto Energy(PCF)                                                              1.8             2003
 10.    District Heating(PCF)                                                                   5.0             2004
 11.    EnergyEfficiency Fund(GEF)b/                                                            10.0            2005
 12.    PomoriiskoLake (GEF)b/                                                                  0.9             2005
    Notes: a/ PAL-1 (US$ 150million) was approvedby the Boardon January23,2003, PAL-2 (equivalentto U S 1 2 5 million) was
    approved by the Boardon May 4,2004. PAL-3 is expectedto reach the Board in June 2005. b/ Noteffective yet.


Questions may be referred to Ms.R. Quintanilla (202-473-7673), Ms. M y l a Taylor Williams
(202-473-6997), or Ms. Stella Ilieva (359-2-9697-25 1)




                                                             8


