Document of
FILE COPY                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-CIRCULATNG COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                     ReportNo.P-1131a-SU
REPORT AND RECONNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
February 4, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officild duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT = SUDANESE POUND (hSd)
Official Exchange Rate
US$1 = hSdO.348
tSdl = US$2.872
Piasters (Pt)100 = hSdl.00
Effective Exchange Rate
US$1  =   hSdO.398
tSdl  =   US$2.50
Fiscal Year (Government) July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for the equiva-
lent of $4 million on standard IDA terms to help finance technical assistance
in project preparation. The Kuwait Fund is co-financing the project, lending
$3 million equivalent for 40 years, including 10 years grace, at one percent
interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Since the last economic reports on the Sudan were presented to the
Board (Report No. AE-27 in four volumes dated June 9, 1972 and Report No.
119a-SU dated June 1, 1973 on the Southern Region), the Bank has participated
in the ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy Mission. The Bank staff played
a major role in both the conception and execution of t:he ILO mission's work.
Whilst the mission was an employment strategy mission., its focus, as with
previous ILO missions, was on the overall problem of income creation for low-
income earners in the context of a more rapidly growing economy. The mission's
report is comparable to a Bank basic economic report and its analysis and
conclusions are the basis both for our developing dialogue on economic policy
issues with the Government and for the development of our program of operations.
The report has been influential in stimulating discussion of development policy
issues in the country. A special government working group reviewed the report
and prepared a substantive and lengthy evaluation of :its analysis and conclu-
sions. It is also providing a major input into the preparation of the Six
Year Plan for 1977-83 currently being undertaken. Country date are attached
as Annex I.
Economic Potential and Performance
3.        Sudan, with an area of one million square mLles, is the largest
country in Africa, with a population of about 16.5 mi:Llion. Much of the country
is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many developing
countries, there is no population pressure on presentLy developed land. Al-
though a large part of the country consists of desert or semi-desert, the
Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricultural development.
About one-third (200 million feddans or 87 million hectars) of the total land
area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only a small fracture of
this land is presently utilized. In addition, the White Nile and the Blue
Nile provide an abundance of water which has enabled the country to develop
the largest irrigation system in tropical Africa. The Sudan has increased
its use of the Nile water to over half of that allocared to it under the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there remains room for considerable
further expansion in irrigation. The proximity of Sudan to markets in the
Middle East and Europe places it in an excellent position for agricultural
exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly come to consider
Sudan as a primary future source of agricultural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is a
poor country. GNP per capita is estimated at US$130 (1974) and the country is in-
cluded among the UN's twenty-five Least Developed Countries. The economy is
heavily dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced
on irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts.
Its considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing
sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural
commodities, it is limited to the production of consumer goods and building
materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and the feasibility of
developing other deposits is receiving attention. The public sector has long
been important in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation
facilities, the railways and virtually all power and water supply. With the
nationalization measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry,
commerce and finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some
industrial enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half
of the GDP is still generated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is considerable,
its economic performance has been disappointing. During the past decade, the
economy has grown by little more than the rate of growth of the population.
This is primarily due to the depressed level of investment, both public and
private. While the Government was successful in achieving a high growth rate
of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure absorbed most of it, and develop-
ment expenditure decreased. The growth of current expenditure was caused by
increasing security expenditures, the policy of hiring all post secondary
school graduates and converting casual labor on public projects into permanent
government employees and rapidly increasing transfers to local government.
Further, savings generated by public corporations also declined because of
inefficiency and rigid pricing policies. Public sector deficits-were increasing-
ly financed through excessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the
external position was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and
a stagnation of export volume. In the last two years, however, there have
been some positive achievements, the most significant of which is a rapidly
increasing investment program, with much of it directed at the critical bottle-
neck problems in the economy, particularly in the transport sector (see para.
24 below).
6.        In attempting to reverse the relative stagnation of the past, atten-
tion will have to be directed to the very difficult questions of long-term
development which were the subject of the ILO report. These include a number
of important issues such as curbing the rise in recurrent expenditures and
reforming the tax system to make it development-oriented; restructuring of
the incentive system to encourage exports of agricultural products and dis-
courage unviable industrial investment; the deployment of public expenditure



-3-
to raise productivity in traditional agriculture; the development of modern
sector agriculture as the productive lynchpin of the economy; large scale
investment in infrastructure to facilitate agricultural and industrial
development; and reforms in the education system to adapt it to changing
needs. These issues are summarily reviewed in the following paragraphs.
However, the Government also faces a very difficult short-run balance of
payments problem which is reviewed in paras. 20-24 below. The challenge to
the Government in Sudan is to develop policies and programs which lead to
more effective short-run management of the economy but at the same time
address the longer-term issues which will otherwise impede the full realiza-
tion of the country's potential.
Long-Term Development Issues
7.        Current objectives of the Government are summarized in the Interim
Action Program adopted by the Sudan Socialist Union in late 1973. The central
precepts of the Program are: a rapid increase in the growth of GDP; reduction
of inter-regional and rural-urban income disparities; reduction of unemploy-
ment; provision of basic services for all citizens; and self-sufficiency in
basic commodities. No quantitative targets are specified. The ILO report
concludes that Sudanese objectives, thus defined, can be achieved by a high
growth strategy which devotes special attention to the employment and equity
goals. Such a strategy would require a dramatic increase in
public and private savings as well as substantial capital inflows
from abroad. Specifically, the report projects that with savings rising from
an average of 10% of GDP during the early 1970's to between 15% and 20% in
1985 and a tripling of gross capital inflows, rising from about $300 million
in 1974 to about one billion (current) dollars by 1985, Sudan could aspire to
double the growth rate of GDP in real terms from 3-4% p.a. during 1964-75 to
about 6-8% in 1985. The attainment of these targets and the objectives of
the Interim Action Program depend upon the ability of the Government to deal
with major constraints to development in all sectors of the economy.
8.        Agriculture;   This sector dominates the Sudanese economy and is
likely to continue to do so for several decades. Given the extraordinary
size of unsettled arable land with access to potential irrigation waters or
adequate rain, Sudan's comparative advantage in the foreseeable future will
continue to be in agriculture. To succeed, any development strategy for Sudan
must, therefore, give a central role to the agricultural sector. It is also
essential that the objectives of the various types of agricultural production
be clearly defined while seeking to maintain a proper balance between them.
For example, a rapid expansion in agricultural production can best be achieved
by an expansion of modern mechanized dryland and irrigated agriculture.
This will be necessary to increase export earnings to pay for capital imports.
On the other hand, the equity objectives of the government require that agri-
cultural expansion should also take place in areas of traditional agriculture.
To pave the way for more productive agricultural teciniques, initial invest-
ment in basic agricultural services and I.nfrastructure will be needed. This



-4-
investment will probably not increase output greatly in the short run,
but is an essential prerequisite to modernization of agriculture in the
poorer parts of the country. Moreover, given the incomplete knowledge of the
traditional sector (the resource base and what it would take in the form of
policies and programs to make a significant impact on productivity and incomes)
there is a need for a much expanded research, experiment and axteension program
to precede and accompany agricultural investment. It might also be necessary
to establish a separate ministry charged with the responsibility for rural
development. While the Government is committed to a rapid expansion of modern
sector agriculture as the mainstay of agricultural growth, it also recognizes
the imperatives of raising the standards of living of the majority of the
population living outside the modern agriculture schemes.
9.        Within the modern sector of Sudanese agriculture, the basic
question is the emphasis to be given to mechanized dryland farming, which
requires little Government investment and tends to mobilize private savings,
as opposed to irrigated agriculture which is highly capital intensive, and
requires a very large Government investment. Irrigated agriculture is both
more productive and less dependent on weather than mechanized dryland farmina.
However, much can be done to expand yields on existing irrigated lands,
at a relatively small cost. While accepting the argument for further expan-
sion of irrigation, the ILO report concluded that such expansion ought not to
be at the expense of the other forms of agricultural expansion. In view of
the particularly large capital inputs required for expansion of irrigation,
such expansion will be particularly dependent oan capital imports. The IL0
report encourages the Government to facilitate the entry of farmers with
relatively small capital into dryland mechanized farming, through joint or
cooperative ventures. The Government is faced with a dilemma in regard to
mechanization in irrigated agriculture, which offers the possibility of high
intensity cropping and higher incomes, but might reduce income-earning oppor-
tunities for seasonal migrant workers. Such opportunities constitute an impor-
tant and efficient transfer mechanism from the richer to the poorer parts of
the country.
10.       Trans2ortation.   A large expansion in agricultural production will
require a much improved transportation system to permit distribution of imports
and access to markets. A large investment program is already under way,
affecting railways, roads, inland water transport, an oil pipeline and domestic
aviation. In view of the distances involved, investment in transportation
facilities in all modes will continue to demand a large proportion of the avail-
able resources. The requirements have been analyzed in a study carried out by
a consulting firm, the Associates for the Development of Arab Resources (ADAR.)
Fort expansion will be essential, as will further investment in the railway and
water transportation network. A system of trunk roads and regional roads to
facilitate the economic integration of the Southern and Western provinces with
the Central and Eastern regions will also be required. Although the ADAR
transportation study and the ILO mission assessed the needs slightly different-
ly, they were in broad agreement about the essentials.



11.       Industry:  The main thrust of the industrial strategy for the next
decade, outlined in the ILO report, is selective and limited industrialization
based on agro-processing to develop export capability. The case for this rests
on comparative advantage, and the need to give greater priority to agricul-
tural growth, which would form the basis for a faster and more balanced develop-
ment of the economy in subsequent decades. Among those sub-sectors where good
prospects exist for agro-processing and exports are textiles, sugar refining,
edible oils, leather and the production of yeast for bakery and pharmaceutical
use.
12.       The ILO report argues that there is considerable scope for the
expansion of these and other industries to allow industrial output to rise
by about 6 percent per annum during the period 1975-80 and by about 10 percent
per annum thereafter. Expansion of this magnitude would add about $320 mil-
lion to output in the next decade and create over 100,000 jobs. In order to
facilitate attainment of these targets a number of policy changes would be
required in the system of incentives (taxes and subsidies on trade and
domestic activities, quantitative restrictions on trade, licensing and pricing
policies) which currently guides resource allocation in Sudan. Additionally,
for both social and economic reasons it would be right to encourage scattered
development of industry in small, labor-intensive enterprises, when locational
and technical requirements permit. Several such industries are identified
in the ILO Report.
13.       Incentives for Resource Allocation:   Although Sudan's long-term compa-
rative advantage lies chiefly in agriculture and the most promising market
opportunities are in exports, the ILO report's analysis of the existing
policies on foreign trade and payments, taxation and pricing, and their impli-
cations for the structure of incentives guiding resource allocation, indicates
that present policies point in the wrong direction. They favor industry and
import substitution while discouraging agriculture and exports. In addition,
present policies generate excessively high profits in the commerce sector.
Moreover, the existing policies are implemented through an elaborate and
time-consuming system of monitoring and control which squanders scarce
managerial talent and is very difficult to coordinate effectively. The report
made a series of proposals for re-aligning these policies to achieve more
efficient utilization of Sudan's resource endowments. The proposals made
are far-reaching and will require more detailed work for implementation. Some
of these studies are under way and both the Bank and IMF are assistirg the
Government in this work.
14.       Education:  Compared to most other African countries,'the Sudan is
well provided with trained manpower. This is attributable in part to the
fact that the educational system has evolved over a longer period. Neverthe-
less, the ILO report concludes that, as in many countries, the education system
is geared to the needs of a relatively few who pass from one level of educa-
tion to another, rather than to the needs of the majority at every level who
leave school to start work. It found also that the emphasis on secondary and
higher education is such that, for budgetary reasons, universal primary educa-
tion is unlikely to be reached until after the year 2000. Furthermore, the



- 6 -
inter-regional and urban-rural imbalances are striking, and unless remedied,
would frustrate the equity objectives of the Government.
15.       Following from its analysis, the report made several proposals
which would permit the educational and training system to become a rore effec-
tive contributor to rapid economic development and employment creation. The
proposals would reduce supply/demand imbalances, produce skills more directly
relevant to economic growth, and smooth the operation of the labor-market for
school leavers at all levels. In brief, the report concludes that further
expansion of secondary and post-secondary education should be directed to
those areas which are now severely short of secondary facilities or where
specific demands related to productive enterprises are identified. It argued
that the focus of technical training should be on-the-job training rather than
formal and vocational training; that primary education should be refocussed to
provide a basic education which is not geared to the need to progress to the
next level of education, but to the needs of the majority who will receive no
formal education after the primary level; that facilities for adult education
should be expanded; and that the selection procedures for progress from one
educational level to another should be changed. There are major social
and political difficulties and dilemmas to be faced in reforming the education
system on such a scale, and to do so will require a strong concensus of
interested parties in favor of the reforms. For these reasons it is encouraging
to note the Government's decision to mount a national study of the entire educa-
tion system over the next year. IDA will be providing some assistance for
this review through the Second Education Project, approved by the Board in May
1975.
16.       Resource Mobilization:   The attainment of the Government's objectives
of rapid growth in output, incomes, employment and equitable distribution of
income in the next decade will require a large increase in investment expendi-
ture. It is expected that Sudan will receive large zapital inflows from external
sources, particularly from Arab countries. This is a unique opportunity.
Wlilst external assistance on concessionary terms can reduce the burden of
raising domestic resources, however, the latter remains a critical require-
ment. Sudan must strive for a gradual increase in its rate of domestic savings.
In this regard, particular attention needs to be given to the role of Central
Government. Since the early 1960s its contribution to savings has deteriorated
markedly until currently these savings account for barely one percent of GDP.
The poor performance on budgetary savings is particularly worrying against
the background of a strong record on revenue raising which pushed the revenue/
GDP ratio from about 18 percent in the early 1960s to 28 percent at present.
17.       The Government is aware of the need for improvement in public sector
finances and has in the past year made progress in the control of expenditures.
However, further changes in this direction will be required in the future to
reverse and bolster the trend in public savings. For example, there is a
critical need to scrutinize the rapidly increasing transfers from Central to
Provincial, and through them, to Local Governments. In 1974/75 these transfers
took up more than 15 percent of the Central Government's current revenues.
There is a clear need for a more rational formula to determine the total of
these transfers and guide its allocation between Local Governments. With
regard to Central Government revenue, the thrust of the ILO report's recom-
mendations is aimed less at raising the already high revenue/GDP ratio, and
more towards fiscal reforms which would encourage better resource alloca-



- 7 -
tion, increase equity, and preserve the presently high revenue ratio from
erosion due to changes in the production structure. Irt summary, the Report
recommends less reliance on foreign trade taxes and argues in favor of
developing broad-based consumption taxes and extension of direct taxes,
especially to capture the growth in incomes anticipatec! in the modern agri-
cultural sector. To the extent taxes on foreign trade would remain, the
analysis calls for considerable rationalization of the existing structure
to minimize its adverse effects on resource allocation in the economy. In
some cases, these fiscal reforms would require more detailed study for imple-
mentation. The IMF and the Bank can be of assistance in this connection.
18.         Project Preparation Capacity:    According to the analyses contained
in the ILO report the investment required to meet the Government's objectives
would be very large, exceeding US$9 billion in constant: 1975 prices over the
next ten years. Sudan's association with the Arab oil exporting countries
could be a critical factor in generating the capital inflows required to sustain
an investment program of such a magnitude. A number of these countries are
considering very large investment plans in the agricultural sector and in
infrastructure required to facilitate agricultural expansion. If this
capital inflow develops on a substantial scale it would remove one of the
major current restraints on the level of investment. However, for investment
to continue to expand significantly on a scale commensurate with both the
needs and opportunities, Sudan needs to expand its capacity to identify projects
for financing and its ability to manage the preinvestment work, which is a
prerequisite to a commitment of investment funds. Some work of this kind is
being undertaken, but the Government considers that in order for a flow of
adequately prepared projects to become available on a sufficient scale, Sudan
will require further external assistance in project preparation and other
pre-investment work. (See Parts III and IV of this report).
19.        Government's Reception:   Those who reviewed the report, including
ministers, officials, university staff and representatives of the Sudan Socialist
Union, accepted the report's general thrust as sound and well balanced, reflect-
ing to a large extent the Government's own objectives. In particular the
relative emphasis between agriculture and industry in the productive sectors
was found appropriate. The discussion of education has proved to be a useful
stimulus to a debate which had evidently already started and which will be
continued in the course of the sector survey. The Government was in full
agreement on the need to improve resource mobilization, but is, naturally,
impressed with the difficulty of improving the marginal savings ratio so sub-
stantially. Such an increase would obviously be easier in the context of
more rapid economic growth. The Government has yet, it seems, to develop
its views on the analysis of the incentive system. In general we feel that
the period of development of the next Plan will be the critical test of the
contribution of the report to the Government's thinking. The Sudanis Council
of Ministers has recently cleared the report for publication.
Short-Run Development Issues
20.       While the ILO report focuses on the long-term issues facing the
economy, and on that basis develops a strategy for devel!opment, Sudan has to
grapple with serious short-term problems which both affect the economy at the
present time and threaten the prospects of achieving the really striking
advances which are possible over the next ten years. The short-run issues



- 8 -
relate to the level and pattern of investments, budgetary operations and cost-
price relationships, which have resulted in pressures on the budget and the
balance of payments. The balance of payments pressures have been exacerbated
by rising import prices and an unfavorable external market for cotton. Thus,
the trade balance which was positive at US$67 million in 1973, became negative
at US$177 million in 1974 and the deficit is expected to double to US$360 million
in 1975. The much larger deficit for 1975 is the result of a continuing
rapid growth in import payments with exports unchanged since 1973. The
rise in imports is due partly to higher prices for essential commodities,
including food and oil products, and partly to an expansion of development-
related imports. In value terms, petroleum imports in 1975 are expected to
be about 40 percent more than the record figure of $87 million in 1974,
while imports of machinery and transport equipment are expected to double.
The build-up of domestic inflationary pressures has resulted in some expansion
of manufactured consumer goods imports. On the receipts side, recession in
the world textile industry resulted in a slow movement of cotton exports at
relatively low prices, although exports of groundnuts and sesame continued
strongly in 1975. Thus, the receipts from cotton exports in 1974 were about
40 percent below the average of the previous three years and, as a percentage
of total exports, dropped to 39 percent compared with 58 percent in 1973.
The position improved marginally through most of 1975, but in the last month,
sales of cotton by Sudan amounted to about $80 million. The expectation now
is that a considerable part of the large cotton stocks will be exported at
relatively high prices during the first half of 1976.
21.        In any event, the Government has taken a number of measures in
recent months to arrest the deterioration in the balance of payments and
to make it less dependent on cotton. Specifically, measures have already been
taken to reduce substantially the acreage under long staple cotton and to
plant instead groundnuts, wheat and the shorter staple varieties of cotton.
This is expected to increase export receipts considerably as demand abroad
for short and medium staple cotton and groundnuts is more favorable. Further-
more, the Sudan is expected to become increasingly self-sufficient in wheat
and sugar with imports of these commodities projected to be eliminated by
1976 and 1978, respectively. In addition, the increase in the capacity of
the Sudan railways and the opening of the Suez Canal are expected to increase
the competitiveness of the Sudan's exports and reduce the cost of imports.
22.       With regard to budgetary operations, public sector deficits continue
to be the primary cause of excess aggregate demand and the resulting infla-
tionary pressures, but the Government is taking steps to improve its financial
position and maintain a policy of restraint in the expansion of domestic
credit. In particular, security expenditure has declined significantly as a
proportion of the budget. Steps are also being taken to strengthen expenditure
controls in the public sector and, while these measures may need time to be
fully effective, the Government's aim is to allow no more than a marginal
increase in current expenditures in 1975/76. The approved budget for 1975/76
did not introduce any new taxes, but some measures have been taken, including
the elimination of most subsidies (notably that on sugar) and increases in
utility rates. The latter are expected to lead to a combined financial
surplus ot about US$18 million for the Sudan Railways and the Public Elec-
tricity and Water Corporation, compared to a deficit of the same order in
1974/75. Moreover, a proposal to change the pricing policy on cottonseed
which would result in additional revenue of at least US$23 million is under



-9-
active consideration. Additionally, the Bank of Sudan has reasserted control
over the banking sector, and has raised interest rates by two percentage
points. Continued progress of this kind would be needed to foster a stronger
economy with a capacity to support an expanded developmnent program. In this
connection, the IMF is having discussions with the Government on fiscal, credit
and balance of payments issues.
23.       In the last two years, Sudan's external inde'btedness has increased
considerably and, as of March 1975, stood at about $700 million. In 1974 an
unexpectedly large inflow of external capital, consisting largely of short-
and medium-term credits, was sufficient to finance a current account deficit
in excess of $250 million and to limit the overall balance of payments deficit
to less than $20 million. In 1975, excluding the use of IMF resources under
the Oil Facility, amounting to SDR 18.3 million, the Sudanese authorities
expected to receive about $200 million in net external credits, which amounts
to less than half of the projected current account deficit. While the upsurge
in cotton exports is ameliorating this position, the I'F's discussions will
help in identifying ways to reduce these problems. A disturbing feature of
Sudan's external debt position has been the rising proportion of short-and
medium-term debt contracted on commercial terms. As a result largely of the
decline in export receipts and the financing requirements of the cotton stocks,
(see para. 20 above) the debt service ratio jumped from 15% in 1973 to about
26% in 1974. This ratio is expected to revert to a mo're normal figure as the
export markets recover. While a rapid increase'in private and public capital
inflows is essential to finance the development program, it is equally important
that the terms of public capital inflows be as concessionary as possible. The
Government informed the I-nF of its intention to avoid as much as possible
adding to the already heavy debt servicing burden by limiting further reliance
on short-and medium-term credit. Nevertheless, some such borrowing could
occur and it must also be expected that some further increase in net official
liabilities of the Bank of Sudan will occur.
24.       As a result of negative public sector savings the Government has
relied heavily on the much increased inflow of capital to give a major boost
to public investment, which had remained stationary during the period 1967-73.
From about $75 million in 1972/73 and $100 million in 1973/74, investment in
1974/75 is estimated to have jumped to $250 million. This level is expected
to be exceeded in the current fiscal year. As important, the investment has
been directed largely into the priority areas. Much is going into eliminating
the inadequacy of the transportation system, which is undoubtedly the most
serious immediate bottleneck to the development of the economy. On-going
projects in the transportation sector include the construction of a road and
an oil pipeline in the key Khartoum-Port Sudan corridor and acquisition of
railway rolling stock in order to increase the capacity of Sudan Railways.
Other priority investments are in sugar schemes which are intended to eliminate
imports and lead to exports in the late 1970's; public support for irrigated
agriculture through the Rahad project, which is jointly financed by the Bank,
the Government and other bilateral and multi-lateral agencies; kenaf plantations,
textile mills and expansion of wheat production to achieve self sufficiency.
The map at the end of this report illustrates the geographical distribution
of the major investment projects under implementation. It is worth emphasizing
that the fruits of this investment in terms of higher output and higher exports
will not be forthcoming in the short run, but should begin to be apparent in



the late 1970's. The major infrastructure investments required for the
development of a country as large as Sudan dictate the need for a flow of
concessionary funds to Sudan. The current balance of payments problem and
the emphasis being given to the development of Sudan's considerable produc-
tive potential, particularly in the agricultural sector, are additional reasons
for continued support from IDA and other sources of-concessionary funds.
25.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, some momentum has been injected into Sudan's
economic development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment
during the last two years. However, Sudan faces balance of payments and
domestic resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst this is
a familiar problem in several developing countries, the medium-term prospects
for Sudan look particularly bright. These opportunities derive not only from
the ability to tap the surplus funds of the OAPEC countries and to serve
their expanded markets, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential
of the country. However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been
outlined in the preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects
are to be realized. The Government has indicated its willingness to address
itself to these crucial issues at the review of the ILO report in October
1975. During the work of preparing the Six-Year Plan for the years 1977-83,
which has just started, a major opportunity exists to make substantial
progress in the direction indicated by the recent studies. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to achieve a higher momentum of develop-
ment by helping channel resources into the priority sectors in our project
work, by extending technical assistance to improve project identification,
preparation and implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue
on policy issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
26.        Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $307
million and has been the country's largest single source of foreign aid.
A major portion of our past lending was to help finance irrigation and-rail-
way projects. In addition we have lent for two power projects, two education
projects, a highways project, and three agriculture projects, and have made
two credits to a development finance company. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as a December 31,
1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. The Bank/IDA share of
debt service is 14% (1974).
27.       Progress on Bank Group operations in the Sudan varies.    The high-
ways and mechanized farming projects are going quite well, but difficulties
in obtaining materials, high bids which require re-tendering and weaknesses
in management continue to slow down implementation of most other projects.
Three projects in particular have encountered problems in implementation --
the First Education Project, which was very slow in starting off, but is



now proceeding somewhat more satisfactorily; the Third Railways Project, where
progress towards improved operational efficiency is very slow; and the Rahad
Irrigation Project which has faced management problems and serious cost
overruns. This project was discussed by the Board last June when the
supplementary credit for the project was considered, and current progress
on the progress is encouraging. Disbursements on Sudan credits have picked
up in the last six months and are expected to continufe increasing. (See Annex
II.)
28.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group feels it can render a useful service to the Sudan, by
assisting with the identification and preparation of a relatively large
number of projects, and by actively associating bilateral and other multi-
lateral sources with the financing of these projects. The Consultative Group
last met in 1973, and most of the member countries have developed programs
in Sudan, subsequently. At an appropriate time, a further meeting of the
Consultative Group will be held.
29.       In the light of our better understanding of the economic prospects
and problems facing Sudan, the Bank Group's lending strategy will continue
to emphasize agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture
we will continue with a two-pronged strategy of investments to realize
existing production potential in the modern sector, while laying the founda-
tions for future production increases in traditional agriculture. Thus,
we have recently made a credit for a major irrigation project and are assisting
the Government in preparing projects in irrigation, mechanized farming and
livestock. In traditional farming we have lent for an. Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Project in the South and are working on a Savannah Development Project.
Last April the Board approved a Second Education Project, which emphasizes
training in the rural areas. We expect to develop future education projects
on the basis of the sector survey now in progress. Lack of transport faci-
lities continues to hamper movement of goods within, the country and to the
outside world. The Third Railway Project is helping to improve rail transport
and design further necessary improvements in related transport facilities.
A Second Highway Project is under preparation, and included in the agricul-
tural rehabilitation program is about 350 miles of agricultural feeder roads
in the Southern Region. Further transportation projects in railways, aviation
and ports are under consideration with the Government. With the two credits
to the Industrial Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group is supporting private invest-
ment in the growing industrial sector. The first power project, which devel-
oped some of the hydro-electric potential of the Roseires Dam, was completed
in 1972. A credit for the second power project, which will develop these
resources further and assist expansion of the electricity system, was recently
approved by the Board.



- 12 -
PART III - THE NEED FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
Background
30.       In the last eighteen months the investment climate in Sudan has
changed markedly. Firstly, the Government found it possible to embark on
a major expansion of public sector investment in 1973 and 1974. In 1975/76,
a further substantial increase in investment is expected. As indicated
above, the recent investment was largely in the priority sectors, especially
in attacking the transportation bottleneck between Port Sudan and Khartoum.
Secondly, official policy towards private investment has become more positive,
with the result that private investment in the modern sector has also expanded.
Some foreign private investment has been attracted.     Thirdly, it is apparent
that the Sudan can expect to see considerably increased investment from the
Arab oil exporting countries. These countries have already emerged as a major
source of capital for the Sudan, and this flow can be expected to increase.
Reciprocally, Sudan can reasonably expect to expand its role as a source of
supply for the Middle Eastern countries, especially for food products.
31.       Thus the prospects are that investment in Sudan can continue to
expand beyond the high level recently reached. Both the needs and the
opportunities are very large. Constraints standing in the way of an
expanded investment program include remaining transportation deficiencies,
and the capacity of the construction industry, as well as the capacity of
the various government agencies to manage a larger program. For investment
to continue to expand Sudan needs to tackle all these constraints, and it
also needs to expand its capacity to identify projects for financing and its
ability to manage the preinvestment work which is a prerequisite to a commit-
ment of investment funds. While some work of this kind is being undertaken,
the Government considers, and IDA agrees with this view, that the absence of
a sufficient flow of adequately prepared projects has become a major barrier
to the maintenance and further expansion of the level of investment.
Planning and Project Selection
32.       At present the Sudan has no 5-Year Plan or other planning document.
The allocation of funds for capital purposes takes place within the general
objectives contained in the Interim Action Program adopted by the leadership
of the Sudan Socialist Union in late 1973. The Government is now starting
preparatory work on a 6-Year national Plan for the period from July 1977.
The basis for the Plan is expected to be the Arab Fund's study of the
Agricultural Sector. The analyses contained in the report of the transporta-
tion sector prepared by the Associates for the Development of Arab Resources,
and the report of the ILO Comprehensive Employment Mission are also expected
to contribute importantly to the planning exercise, as will the Education
Sector Review which is just beginning. From July 1977, therefore, the Plan
will form the natural starting point for project selection. Until then, there
will be no formal basis for project selection, but a minimum requirement will
be identification of the projects as being of high priority in terms of the



- 13 -
country's general development objectives; in particular, that they will help
in removing the major transportation deficiencies, expand exports of agricul-
tural produce in the raw, processed or semi-processed form, and contribute
to reduction in the dualism of the economy between the more and less developed
regions.
33.       Institutionally, under the general authority of the Council of
Ministers, planning is the responsibility of a Ministerial Planning Committee,
chaired by the Minister of Finance and National Econony, with a membership
consisting mainly of Ministers from the major spending ministries. Staff
work is the responsibility of the National Planning Commission, under the
Commissioner General for Planning. A UNDP financed Planning Assistance
Team is working in the Commission, with IBRD as the executing agency.
There is also provision for Planning Units in each ministry, public corpora-
tion or government agency. These do not yet exist in many agencies, but a
UNDP/FAO project, currently under discussion, is expected to create a strong
planning unit in the Ministry of Agriculture.
34.       In considering the institutional arrangements necessary to support
an expanded level of pre-investment work, the obvious focus of attention is
the point at which plans have to be implemented. The Government considers
that at present the National Planning Commission is the most appropriate
point of control for directing the flow of funds into pre-investment work.
A strong influence over the allocation of funds for pie-investment studies
would be a normal extension of the planning functions of this institution
and would provide a close link between planning decisions and project
formulation. As part of a general reorganization of the Commission now under
consideration, the Government intends to establish a E'roject Preparation Unit
in the National Planning Commission.
Current Pre-Investment Work
35.       Currently, preinvestment work on significant: public sector projects
is financed from several sources, but as the following table shows, it forms
a relatively minor proportion of the technical assistance provided to the Sudan.



- 14 -
Technical Assistance Available to Sudan in 1973/74 /a
($ Million)
Other UN
Bilateral    UNDP    Agencies      Total    %
Training in Sudan                  3.1       3.6       1.0         7.7      16
Training Overseas                  5.8       0.9       1.3         8.0      17
Provision of Experts               1.8       4.0        -          5.8      13
Long Term Programs /b              0.4       5.4       5.1        10.9      23
Research, Basic Studies            1.1       2.5        -          3.6       8
Small Development Proj.            2.4       3.5       1.9         7.8      17
Project Preparation                1.1       1.5        -          2.6       6
TOTAL                        15.7      21.4       9.3        46.4     100
%                           34%       46%      20%         100%     %
/a   Estimate; excludes WFP assistance.
/b   e.g. disease control, school feeding programs.
Two other major external sources of funding for public sector pre-investment
work in the recent past have been IDA, which has allocated $5.0 million for
such work in current projects (e.g., in the Rahad Project for the next stage
development of the Blue Nile waters and in the Highways projects for high-
way feasibility and engineering studies), and the Kuwait Fund, which has
financed several important studies, such as those of Grain Storage, the Sugar
Industry and a Transportation Master Plan.
36.       For tne future, new sources of foreign exchange are required to
finance the large expansion in pre-investment work which is necessary to
facilitate the expanded investmert program. Although the requirement is
difficult to quantify, even one percent of the cost of a $500 million per annum
investment program would require expenditure of $5 million per annum. The
requirement is likely to exceed this amount by a substantial margin. Among
the sources of finance to meet this requirement are the sizable technical
assistance programs of the United Kingdom and Germany. Other bilateral agen-
cies are also expected to contribute. The UNDP is just beginning discussions
with the Government on the UNDP country program for the next planning period
(1977-82) and additional resources for project preparation work may well be
available from this source from 1977 onward. Additional resources are expected
to be available from the European Economic Community. However, there are,
and will continue to be, many other calls on these funds and in view of the



- 15 -
rapid increase in costs of consultants services, there will no doubt be an
unfilled gap. The proposed credit will help to meet tlhe immediate needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed IDA credit of US$4.0 million would help to finance a
program of project preparation studies for the Sudan Government over a
three-year period. The Kuwait Fund would cofinance the project, contributing
US$3.0 million equivalent. The project would assist in expanding the capacity
of Sudanese institutions to execute pre-investment worlc. A special Project
Preparation Unit would be established in the National P'lanning Commission to
administer the funds provided, under the general supervision of an inter-agency
committee, on which the Bank Group would be represented. It is proposed that
the IDA credit should finance up to 85 percent of the cost of studies of the
projects selected, which approximates to the likely foceign exchange cost.
The Government would contribute 15 percent of study costs and would finance
the administrative costs of the project institutions. Some minor foreign
exchange costs of establishing the project institutions and the cost of some
short-term consultants to assist the Project Preparation Unit would be met under
the existing UNDP-financed Planning Assistance Project.
38.       The following table summarizes the project's costs and the financing
arrangements:
Foreign        LocaL           Total
--------------- US$000…
Project Costs
Consultancy Services                7,000          1,240)         8,240
Administrative Costs                    -            27)             270
7,000          1,51')         8,510
Financing                                                                    %
IDA                                 4,000            -            4,000     47
Kuwait Fund                         3,000            -             3,000    35
Government                             -           1,510           1,510    18
7,000          1,51()          8,10    100
Over the three-year period, studies requiring between 115 and 130 manyears of
consultancy services would be financed. Provision has also been made to allow
the IDA credit to help finance training courses relevant to the development of
Sudanese institutions concerned with pre-investment work. The Kuwait Fund's
loan will be provided on a parallel basis, and will be for a term of 40 years,
with 10 years grace, at one percent rate of interest. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by 1980.



- 16 -
The Studies to be Financed
39.       The general criteria to be applied would be that the projects selected
for study have a high priority in relation to the Government's development objec-
tives and a high expectation of being financed within a short time. Projects would
not be limited to any particular sector, and would be open to financing from
all sources. While projects being presented to the National Planning Com-
mission for consideration for further study would be in different stages of
preparation, and it will be undesirable to impose strict selection criteria
related to their stage of preparation, it is not intended that the credit
be used to finance basic studies of a general nature. Use of the credit
would be restricted to studies closely linked to an anticipated investment
decision. Before a decision is made to use the IDA credit to finance studies,
consideration would be given as to whether they could be financed by another
national, bilateral or multilateral agency. In particular, preliminary
discussions have been held with the Directorate for Development of the European
Economic Community, which is considering making funds available for project
preparation work as part of a program of assistance being developed for
Sudan under the Lome Convention. Close cooperation will be sought with all
such agencies active in this field.
40.        Bank staff have discussed possible studies for financing with the
Sudanese authorities. Athough further detailed consideration will be required
by the project institutions, high priority would be given to studies required
for track improvements on the railways, for which the Government has made a
separate application to IDA for financing. Other projects which would be
considered are a study of feeder roads to link agricultural areas to a new
road and existing railways leading from Khartoum to Port Sudan; a proposal
for integrated rural development in Darfur Province; a proposal for the inte-
gration of livestock into existing irrigation schemes; a proposal for rehabili-
tation and consolidation of existing small-scale irrigation schemes; and water
supply studies.
41.        As examples of these projects in more detail we have chosen rail-
ways, irrigation rehabilitation and water supply. The Government has pro-
posed a series of studies of investment required to expand railway capacity
by improving existing railway track, possible doubling of part of the track,
signalling, telecommunications and locomotive workshops. The estimated foreign
exchange cost of all these studies would be in the region of $1 million.
They have different levels of priority and further analysis is necessary to
select the higher priority items. The irrigation rehabilitation project
would be part of a program of rehabilitation work intended to modernize and
consolidate a large number of small irrigation schemes, previously developed
by private individuals, but now publicly owned. The work is expected to
be phased over several years and a first step is being initiated with financ-
ing provided under the Rahad Irrigation Project. The consolidation process
could add several hundred thousand acres of currently unused land lying
between the existing schemes. No estimate of preparation costs is available
yet. The water supply studies under consideration would prepare for expansion
of supplies in four regional towns and Khartoum. Additional preinvestment



- 1 7 -
work is necessary to further the Government's rural water supply plans.
The study requirements for rural water supply have not yet been worked out,
but the studies for the urban water projects are expected to cost in the
region of $300,000. While preinvestment work of this diversity has widely
different costs, and it is very difficult to estimate the cost implications
of a diversified investment program, it is clear that several million dollars
per annum will be required to support the level of investment expected.
The Government has agreed that $4 million is an appropriate sum for an initial
foreign exchange contribution by IDA.
Organization and Procedure
42.       Administration of the fund established to finance project prepara-
tion work would be provided by the National Planning Commission. The Project
Preparation Unit being established in the Commission will have a small full-
time staff. Additional staff would provide services on a part-time basis.
These would include members of the UNDP/IBRD Planning Assistance Team,
Sudanese experts from planning units in different ministries and agencies,
and short-term consultants as and when required. Initially, the director of
the Unit would be the leader of the Planning Assistance Team, with a senior
Sudanese alternate from the Natioinal Planning Commission. Bank staff, includ-
ing the staff of RMEA, would help in appropriate cases. The allocation of
the proceeds of the IDA credit would be subject to the approval of a Project
Review Committee composed of representatives of the Government, UNDP, the Kuwait
Fund, and IDA.
43.       For each sub-project presented to the Project Preparation Unit,
a working party would be established with representation from relevant
ministries and agencies. For this purpose, the Unit would draw on the tech-
nical staff of the relevant ministries, the staff of the sector divisions of
the National Planning Commission, and, during the currency of the UNDP-financed
Planning Assistance Team, the members of that team. Consultants would be
employed for these working parties as and when particular experts were found
to be necessary. The working parties would be responsible for analyzing
projects for their economic priority, defining the need for additional
analysis and a schedule for the execution of this work, preparation
of terms of reference for the necessary stidies and agreeing with the respon-
sible ministry arrangements for supervision of the firm or agency which would
execute the studies. Requirements for coordination with other ministries and
agencies would be identified and agreed with those agencies. In cases where
a financing agency has already been tentatively identified for the project,
it would be consulted about the preparation requirements. Once a contract
has been concluded for execution of the studies, the working party would work
closely with the supervising ministry or agency to supervise the work, review
progress reports and evaluate the quality and adequacy of the study reports.
44.        The Project Review Committee would be consulted prior to the invi-
tation of proposals from agencies and/or consultants for execution of the
studies, and for approval to conclude a contract for those services. The
Review Committee would consist of the Director General of the National Planning



- 18 -
Commission (Chairman), the Resident Representatives of UNDP and IBRD, a
representative of the Kuwait Fund and such other members as are found to be
appropriate. Other agencies which contribute funds for project preparation
work could be represented on the Project Review Committee. A copy of the
terms of reference of the Project Preparation Unit and the Project Review
Committee is attached as Annex IV.
45.       During the mid-term review of the UNDP/IBRD Planning Assistance
Project, which took place in November 1975, the terms of reference of the
Planning Team were revised to accommodate these expanded functions in the
field of Project Preparation.
Training
46.       A major objective of the project will be to assist in establishing
an expanded body of expertise in the field of project selection and prepara-
tion in Sudanese official and private institutions. To this end the Project
will encourage responsible ministries and agencies in adopting sound methods
of project selection and preparation. There are Sudanese consulting firms
with the capacity to undertake some or all of the studies to be financed,
either singly or in partnership with foreign firms.    Foreign firms selected
for the studies financed will be encouraged to associate Sudanese institutions
or experts with their work, to provide an opportunity for these institutions
to build up their capacity for this type of work.
47.       Over the last year EDI has held four training courses in project
analysis in the Sudan, one in agriculture projects, two in transportation
projects and one in agro-industrial projects. Financing has been provided
by UNDP and by Credit No. 457. Additional training with a similar emphasis,
is under consideration and the terms of the proposed credit would permit it
to be used to help finance training relevant to the objectives of the project.
Project Implementation Capacity
48.       It must be expected that a country which expands the level of invest-
ment in the manner which is occurring in Sudan will experience implementation
problems, in the provision of managers, technicians and skilled craftsmen; in
the construction industry; in the availability of transport capacity and other
infrastructure needs which can only be overcome over time. The manpower and
training needs of Sudan have been analysed in the ILO's work and the Govern-
ment is urgently considering the requirement for additional training as part
of an education sector review now in progress. In the field of construction,
while some of the publicly owned corporations have a substantial capacity
(especially in irrigation) the rrivate sector firms are not large. Undoubtedly
they will expand their capacity, and joint ventures with foreign firms may be
a particularly fruitful way of achieving such expansion. As with several
current contracts (the oil pipeline, the sugar and textile factories and the
Wad Medani-Port Sudan road) outside contractors will sometimes be required
if construction is not to be delayed. An internal Bank review of the construc-
tion industry in Sudan has just been completed. We are considering ways to



- 19 -
assist the Sudanese industry to expand its capacity, perhaps through the
medium of the Industrial Bank of Sudan or of future transportation projects.
So far as transport constraint is concerned, the Government's current invest-
ment activity is giving particular emphasis to the transport sector. Appro-
priate project preparation work must focus on the identification of constraints
to implementation, and by identifying them, assist in their reduction. The
subprojects prepared with the proposed credit would give due consideration to
the implementation problems, and provide for appropriate institutional develop-
ment to help overcome them.
Procurement
49.       The selection of agencies or consultants to execute the studies
financed by the credit would be in accordance with the Bank's usual procedures,
as outlined in the publication "Uses of Consultants by the World Bank and
its Borrowers" (April 1974), and contracts exceeding $100,000 in value would
be subject to approval by the Association. This approval process would be
facilitated by the presence of the Bank's Resident Representative on the
Project Review Committee. Kuwait Fund financing would generally be provided
on a parallel basis, but in the event that both the IDA credit and the Kuwait
Fund loan are used to finance individual studies jointly, the .two institutions
would agree with the Borrower on the method to be used in procuring consultants
services. Contracts for studies would normally be with the National Planning
Commission.
Disbursement
50.       The Association would disburse 85% of the cost of consultancy
services for the studies, or such other lower percentage as shall be agreed
between the Association and the Borrower. In the event that both the IDA
credit and the Kuwait Fund loan are used to finance individual sub-projects
jointly, IDA and the Kuwait Fund would agree with the Borrower on the disburse-
ment percentages and other essential conditions for purposes of each sub-
project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the Recc'mmendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Art:Lcles of Agreement of
the Association and the text of a resolution approving the proposed credit
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 20 -
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



ANNEX I
Page 1 oft 1 pages
TABLE IA
SUDAN                - SOILIDCTRS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KMB)        ……….-…--------
---------------                       ~~~~~~SUDAN                           REVERENCE COUNTRIES (0970)
TOT AL     2 50 5. 8                                      MOST RECENT
ARABLE         ..1960                               1970    ESTIMAT E          KENYA           EGYPT          MOROCCO
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                        100          10.0       130                 140.        210.0       270.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)               00.9        15.7        07.1                11.?        13.3         04.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE(N                             5.0          6.0         7.0                19.0        313.0       3 3.0
PER SQUARE RH. ARABLE LANI.189.                                                        .         3.
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE MIRTH NATE PER THOUSAND           52.0 /a     49 .0        48. 0               46 .0       35. 0       5 0.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND           090/         1 8.0       18.0                18 .3       1 5.0       17.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/THOU)           194.0 ~j.a.                                  55.a0      116.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)             .        48.0         51.0                48.0        50.0        51.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   .          3. 4         3.4                 3 .4        3 .0        3.4.
POPULATION GROWTH RATE El)
TOTAL                                    2.9         2.9          2.8                 3.L         2.5         2.5
URBAN                                    4.0          5.0         5.0 /a              1.0         4.0          4.6
URBAN POP'ULATION (I OF TOTAL)              8.0        12.0        13.0                10.0        42.0         35.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
-) TO 14 YEARS                         4r.0 /b     4 5. 0                           48 .0       4 4.0       66.0
15 TO 64 TEARS                          51./         2.0           .                 48.0        52.0        51.0
A9 YEARS AND OVER                       21.0Zb       0. 0           .4 .0a                        4. 0         3. 0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        1.-0b       0 .9         I. .1t                         0.10
ECONO0MIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1 .6        1.5/a                           I .1 /a     1 7 /a.b      :
FAMILT PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE.    THOU)......                                                           200.0        67.0
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ......                                                  9.0          3.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            4 800.0 I   51 00. 0     1 4 0 0.0 Ib        stOO0 a     8 3 00.01
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (0)            86.0   c     80.0          .                 90.0 1kb    s.ols.
UNEMPLOYED (0 OF LABOR FORCE)......                                                                 3. 0
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
O OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD AY
HIGHEST   5% OF POPULATION              20.9 /d         ..                           20.2 Is
HIGHEST 200 OF POPULATION               50. 1 7d       .                             52 .6 /c
L3WSET 200 OF POPULATION                 5.0/         .            .                   .9 Is.
LOWEST 400 OF POPULATION                13d94         ...                            11.t Is.
DISTRTBUTION OF LAND OANERSHIP
O OWNED BY TOP lOt OF OWNERS                 .                        ..
O OWNED BY SMALLEST lDt OWNERS......
HEALTH AND NUTAITIJN
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                0 0 00 .0 /b  1 58 40. 0  1366 0.07330lAU.) /d           19 10. 0/d  1132 70.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           4720.0 Tb_   1950.0      1 94 0. 0           1610.0 Ld   1640.07d
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL aED             10100.0/    13040. 01 .b                      170.0       4 60. U     690.0ka
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES ID OF REQUIREMENTS)            81.0       981.0         9 2.-0             101.0        9 4.0       9 9. 0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                 55. 0        603.0       6 3 .0              11.0        6 6.0       6 4 .0
-OF WHICH ANIMIAL AND PULSE             .         24.O0/         .                 29.0        16.0        14.0zb
DEATH RATE C/THOU) ROES 1-4                  .            .
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIHAHY SCHOOL                          17.0        2 5.0           .6 7 .0                      10.0        5 5.-0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         5.0          9. 0          .9 .0 /e                     3 3 .0      02.-0
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST VNMS SECOND LEVEL)               12 .0       1 2.0        0 2.0               0 3.0       12.0        0 2. 0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(0 OF SECONDARY)                         3 .0         1 .0        2. 0                2 .0       1 9. 0        2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (0)                      .         1 9. 0         .30.0                        6 0.01
HOUSIZAG
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                   .          2. 5 /c      ..
OCCJPIED DWE_LLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED AATEA (0)                           ..        36.0/c.d       ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRIC ITY
(I OF ALL OWEL.INGS)260                                     d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                    .          ACcj          ..
TO ELECTRICITY (Z)                        .                         ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)              1 .0         ..          .o                48 .0      1 32. 0       60.00
PASSENGER EARS (PER THOU POP)               1.0         2. 0        2 .0                9 .0         4. 0       13. 0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/TM PER CAP)               5.0         2 5 .1      18.0                68 .0      22 8. 0     128.0
NEWSPRINT (MG/YR PER CAP)                   0.1I        0. 2        0 .1                0.5          1.0a        0.2
.--   - - -  - - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - --  - - - -  - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
NOTS                                                               pages 2 of 4 Pages
Unless, otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-61, fat 1970 to 1968-70, and for Moot R-c-n Estimate to 1971-73.
-nMorcc    has been selected as an objective country becean.e of certcain similarities (size of Ppoplatien, larl of population proossere, importance of
agriculture, comber of Acab World, aod access to OPpIC assac           and has, reacbed a stage of development to whiCh the A,,dae night as,pire in the
medi-a   en
SlOAN              1910    /a  1955;   /b  1962;    Ic  1965;    /d  1963, house.holds (iedurae   -rban);   / e  Including midwives and assistant nures.
1970   Ia   Ratio ef population under IS and 65 and over to total labor force;      /b  Goer-ecac hospital estrablishmets only;
Ic  1964-66;    /d  Urban only.
MOlT RECENT ESTTIMATE:   Ia  1965-73;   /b  Eronmio-lly productive popalatio-.
KENYA              1970   /a   Ratio of popula.tion under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years:      lb  Labor force in age groap 15-59 years;
TeUrban households;    /d  Registered. not all practicing in~ the c-atry;      Ie   Inc~lodiog teacher training at the third lece.
ErCYI'T            1970   /a   1966;   lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver to Lahor feve      age 12-64 ye.ar;    It  Labor forc  ago 12-hi yeats;
/d Registered, not all practicing in the country.
MOROCCO            1970    /a  Governent hospitals coly;     lb   1964-66.
R5 Februa.ry 3, 1976
DEINfIITIONS OF SOC IlL INDICATORS
Land iron (thou. hot                                                                    PopuIlation per nuring person - Population divided by nunher of prati-
Total -Total sufae      ra copisn       land are.aend inland waters.                       edeg male and femle graduate nre."trained" or "erfd"nrses
SA.ble. t-Mst mmct estimate of land area osed temptorarily or permanently                  and autliary per onceI with training or esperienee.
for -,l:oti-  c.a eatue..mrket and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                 Population per hospital bed - Population divided by nunhor of hospital
beds available in public and private general and speciali.ed hospi-
flip per eia(US$) - INP per-pita esti-ete         at  -knet prices. cot-1a and rehabilitation rtetrs; emoludes nursing hier                          and ostabliolh-
Ilaced b  same conversion method as World lank Atlas (19 72-74 basis).                  cents for custodial and prev-ti-e care.
Per capita sappl-; of caloies (7. of reguire...eto) - Computed from
Popla-io- and vital steutistirs                                                            energy equivalent of net food supplies avilable in coutry per
Popolation (mid-yr. million) - As of July first, if not availble, average                  capita per day; available n-pplieis comprise domstic prod-eLon.
of tw  end-sor esiae.imporc                                                                      les  enporto. and changes in utah; net napplies -e lde
acioal feed, seeds, quantities used in food processing and losses,
PopolIatian density -per snuore len - Mid-year population per kqar       ile-              in distributimn; reqoi-eents were estimated by FWI based on pbysi-
meter (110 hectoren) of total area.                                                      ological needs for -aoe    activity and health considering enviro-
Population density - per s5-re ks of amble land - Cmsputed as ab-v for                     mna    tenpetracr, body weights, age and ... distributions at
samble land only.                                                                        population, and allowing 101% for waste at household leve.
Per capita supply of protein (grano per day) - Protein content of per
Vital scaciecics                                                                           capita set s-pply ef food per day; net supply mf food is defined on
ic-dn 'irth rate Per th--sad - sc--al lice hirth      per tho..s.ed of mId-                above; re   rmoafor all -ontir          etblished by UeDA Ec-c-ni
veer popoloatiou,; osually five-yea  avera...ges e,ndiug in 1960, 1970 and              Researh Se-rvies provide    for a minImum allowanc    of iii grams of
1975 tar d-celping cocecries.                                                           total protein per day, and 20 graco of animal and pulse protein, of
Crded deathi rate per thoosand - Annual deaths per thounand of mid-year                    which 10 grams should he ceimul protein; these standards ore lower
popelarian;ecay fiv-yea         averges ending in 1960. 1970 and 1975                   than, those of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of usima1 pr-
fcc devlopini onutrn                                                                    tein as on averge for clue world, proposd by FAO in tIc, Third World
Infan  mor'tality rate (/thoo) - Annual de.utlu  of infants coder one year                 Food larcey.-
of age per thousand live births.                                                     Per capita protefm supply iron onimol and pulse - Protein s-pply of food
iJfe enpertanrv at birth (yin) - uverge member of yers of life remain-                     derived from animals and poIses in groem   per day.
ing at birth; osualy fieve        aerages ending in 1960, 1970 and                  Death rote f/thne) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per tho-nsed in age greop 1-4
I97, far d-cnlepicg cv.cicyar,t uhildr-o is chic age goap; suggested on an indieacor of
ir-s r-p-oducti-n rate - A-nrage number of lice daughters a wona       will                malnutrition.
bear In her nornal reproductive period if she emperienros present age-
specific fertility rates; usually Five-year averges ending In 1960,                  Educa tion
1970 and 1975 far develnping ..onotrirs.                                             Ad(astnd enrollment ratio - primary school - Inroillcet of all ages as
Pooaingroth rate (%I) - totel - Compound asnua1 growth rates of mid-                 percntage of primary school-age population; includes children, aged
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1960 to nest r eet year.                     6-1l yearn b,t adi-oted for different lengths of primary educa.tion;
Population groth rate (Z) - urban. -Computed like irauch rate of total                     for counriec with uiesleduction, enrollment coy emced Ill'!
population; different definitions of urban area     may affect coopara-                 scoe some pupils are below or above the efficla1 scbeol age.
hiut7   of data among cetis                                                          Adjusted enrollment ratio - secodary school - Compnted as above; second-
trbos population   7. of total) - eatia of arban to total popolaties;ar                        ed-catinner9,'ices at least foer yenrs of appro-ed primar     instru-
different dofinirivo- of urban ara      a    ffert   potpareility of data               tion; provides general. scrarionol or teaher training i-nsercties for
umani ag    tis                                                                         pupils of 12 to 17 years of oge; correspondenc    corses ore generally
Age Stru,tture (percent) - Children (0-l4 years), working-age (15-b4 years).                . ealuded.
and -reired (i5   eaors and evr) as percentages of mid-year population.             Years of -h-eling proIded (first and secnd levels) - To.tal years of
Age dependneyv ratio - Rato    of popolatian coder 15 and i5 and ovr to                    schooling; at secondary level, --caiecol inotreution may be partially
thos  of  ge   1  th.rou,gh 64i.                                                        or cepIerely e-lcdcd.
co oic depenent ratio - ati      oi population under IS and 65 and over              V_a      1   r1eL %o-..            .v      Vocational institutions include
to the labor fOrte in age group of 15-u-   years.                                       tech,irol. fidestrial or other programs w,hich operate independently
fa-ly Planeing - acceptors (Lhleie,to.) - C-,lati-v nmuber of                              or as departments of secoodary ins CiL taions.
u--eptore of birth-coutt-I d-vIes coder auspices of national family                  Adult literacy rate 1%),,- Literat  adlult  (able to red and write) as
plansing program  sinc  in..eptior.                                                     percenta,ge of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
fanily planning - usrs(7 of maried womn) - Per-ntages of -arried
wome   of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who us    birth-control devices            Rossing
to all married womn in sane age group.                                               Personc per roon (average) - Average number of persons per roo     In oucupind
conveotio..al dwellings in urban areas; dwellings e-ncde non-pern-net
KRRpLoymet xi                                                                              st-utores a-d --e-cpied parts.
Total iabor force (thous.and) - Ener-emnclly a-tive persons. includini                  0cospied dwellings without piped wae      7)- Occu..pied -onveti uol dwell-
a-md forces and unemployed but ge-luding h-etuse    -smo  stdonts. etc.;                iags in urban and rural areas without inuide at outside piped worer
definitions in variou   cutries are not coparable,                                      facilities as perc...toge of all occpied dwellings.
Labor forc  in agriculture'.) - Agricultura      labor fore (in farming.                Ae.ss to electricity (I nof allt dwellings) - Co-venti-na   dwell ings with
forestry, bootCing and fishing) n- pe-rcetage of enta1 labor force                      electricity In living quarters as per-et of total dwell ingo is urban
U.bcImeood (7, of 1ohor forc) - !Jnenply'ed are usully defined as persons                  and rurl-  res
who are able atud willing to take a Job, out of a job on a given day.                Rura  dwelling. scnneted to electeioity Qi) - Competed as above for
remained outL of a job, and seeking werk far a specifid minimum                         rural dwellings osly.
period not ae ..eding en weeb; nay not h.e copacble between countries
doe to different definition    of unemployed and sou rce of dota, e.g..              Consumption
employment offie statistics, ...ple survys, copulsory uneploy-et                     Radio receivers (per thou pop) - 411 types of recivers fer rodio brod-
insur.anc.                                                                              canto to general public per thtsoand of popslacian; ercludes u-
lien...ed receivers incouctries and in years when registration of
Incom  distribstiun - Perctentage of private income (bath in cash and                      radio sets was in, effect; dote for recen.t years may not he romparable
kind) received by riheset 5%, richest 207., poorest 20%/, and Poorest                   since nest cou ntries aholished lieinsig.
40'! of population.                                                                  P.sieSger earn (per thou. Pop) - Passen..ger cars comprise motor cars snaring
less than eight person; emeldes ambula..e.. hearses and military
Distribacion of land ownrship - Percentages nof land ownd by wealthiest                    vehicle..
117, and poorest 10'! of land owners.                                               llertricitv (kwh/yr per eap) - Annal. consuption of industria.1rum
mera,pshlfr and private electricity in kilowatt hour     per capita;
NeatI and Natririan                                                                        generally based an production data, without al11-an- for losss In
Population per physician - Population divided by member of pr-ctiring                      grids but allwing for imports and enports of eleocririry.
physicians qualified from a medical sehool at univesity leve.                       Newsprint (hg/yr per can) - Per capita annalcosupti on in kilograms
entimaced iron domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of L pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1972                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                      1960 -65          1965 -70          1972
GNP at Market Prices          2,143.4    100.0
Gross Domestic Investment      218.6      10.2
Gross National Saving          179.5       8.4
Current Account Balance        -39.1      -1.8
Exports of Goods, NFS          361.3      16.9
Imports of Goods, NFS          385.4      18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972
Value Added"/                Labor Force                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    _                  Mln.                           US $
Agriculture                  693.3      38.2
Industry                     273.4      15.0
Services                     849.4      46.8
Unay2.located
Total/Average       1,816.1     100.0                 ..       100                             100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Government
(     M1n.)        1 of GD                   (     Mln.)        % of GDP2/
197          197        196 -7 _1974                     1972        1970- 72
Current Receipts                                            *-                  210.3       21.8         23.3
Current Expenditure                *-           *-          *-                  190.5       21.5         22.4
Current Surplus                    *-           *-          *-                  19.8         0.3          0.9
Capital Expenditures3/                                                           50.7        4.0          4.3
External Assistance (net)                                                        26.6        1.4          1.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES              FYl969       FY1970      Fyl971      FY1972     Fy1973      EY1974
(M-illion LSoutstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  110.2        123.1       130.6       158.3      196.6       258.7
Bank credit to Public Sector            62.6         90.1       112.2       139.6      152.6       196.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector           74.0         79.0        83.9        98.9      113.9       141.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       17.2         21.1        20.8        18.7
General Price Index (1963 - 100)         ..           ..
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                      ..           ..
Bank credit to Public Sector            53.1         43.9        24.5        24.4        9.3        28.8
Bank credit to Private Sector            4.6          6.8         6.2       17.9        15.2        24.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered, which was unchanged throughout at LS1=US$2.872
1/ At factor cost
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes come capital expenditures by other public entities).
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page b of b pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-74)
1972     1973      1974                                                US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         289.7     393.2     351.8                 Cotton                           191.8    53.2
Imports of Goods, NFS         325.2     344.7     560.8                 Gum Arabic                        29.5     8.2
Resource Gap (deficit =-)                4       -                      Groundnuts                        34.0     9.5
Sesame                            30.3     8.4
Interest Payments (net)       -14.5     -12.5     -20.8
Workers' Remittances             -          -        -
Other Factor Payments (net)    -1.2     -16.0     -29.0
Net Transfers                   6.2        1.9      0.4               All other commodities               75.1    20.8
Balance on Current Account    -40 l:39 7I        -258.8                    Total                         360.7   100,
Direct Foreign Investment       0.3       -         3.8             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               47.7      62.9     314.2                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                34.9       47.3     72.2
Subtotal                    12.8      15.6     242.0               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             636.0
Capital Grants                   -          -        -                Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            31.4     -17.1      16.1               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              14.8     -39.9       7.7                                         1/
Increase in Reserves (+)      -14.3     +19.5     -10.8             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-
Gross Reserves (end year)      30.9      52.8     106.6
Net Reserves    (end year)   -111.5     -92.0    -102.8               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             26.4
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      18.0      26.3      87.3
of which:   Petroleum      17.9      22.7      78.6
Exports                       2.6       3.1      n.a.
of which:   Petroleum       2.6       3.1     n.a.        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US $):2/
IBRD         IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed               76.1         31.1
ThrouS h  -L1974                                                Undisbursed                            -          148.1
US $ 1.00 = LS 0.348                                            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         76.1        179,2
1.00 =US $2.872
Since March 1972 Effective Rate of Exchange Ls. 1.00 - US$2.50 for all transactions except for the proceeds from
cotton and gum exports which are converted at the official rate.
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
2/ On December 31, 1976
not available
not applicable
January 27, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of Dec. 31, 1975)
Amount (US$ Million)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower              Purpose          Bank   IDA     Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:                127.2   12.4
Credit 122  1968    Sudan       Education I                       8.5        5.5
Credit 311  1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II            11.2        8.0
Credit 331  1972    Sudan       Highway                           7.0        5.0
Credit 364  1973    Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                 42.0       35.3
Credit 364-2 1975   Sudan       Rahad (Supplement)               20.0       20.0
Credit 447  1973    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan I        4.0        0.9
Credit 457  1974    Sudan       Railways III                     24.0       23.1
Credit 476  1974    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilitation      10.7       10.3
Project
Credit 547  1975    Sudan       Education II                     10.0       10.0
Credit 564  1975    Sudan       Power II                         23.0       23.0
Credit 589  1975    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II       7.0        7.0
179.8      148.1
Total -
Of which has been repaid                                51.1     .6
Total now outstanding                                     76.1  179.2
Amount sold                      5.8
Of which has been repaid       5.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA a/                         76.1  179.2
Total Undisbursed                                          -    148.1      148.1
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of Dec. 31, 1975)
Type of    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                 Obligor                 Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1964     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.     Textiles
and
1972     Total gross commitments                         1.87   0.34      2.21
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           1.65    0.07      1.72
Total commitments now held by IFC              0.22    0.27      0.49
Total Undisbursed                              0       0         0
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made six loans and twelve credits to
the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to commence f:or
the following projects.
Credit No. 122 First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Although these problems were to a large extent beyond the control
of the Project Unit, the latter's capacity to deal with problems has improved.
Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply shortages continue,
to interrupt construction. Disbursements have picked up and are now going
more smoothly. Slight cost overruns will be met by the Government. Exten-
sion of the Closing Date is likely. We are continuing to monitor the project
closely.
Credit No. 311 Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit of
June 12, 1972; Effective Date:   April 24, 1973; Closing Date:   December 31, 1978.
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan - 1,038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended
by 75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road
construction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on road
improvements and construction of a training centre are still behind schedule.
Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized farming have identified
a large area for possible development in the southwest of the country.
Disbursements are picking up and should grow quite rapidly now.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any pro-
blems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 331 Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29, 1972;
Effective Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project comprises assistance to the Roacls and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment:, spares and materials.
Also included are feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport in transport planning and training of DOR staff. The project is
progressing satisfactorily on the whole. Although the consultants reports
were delayed, implementation of some of the recommendations is under way and
following the award of contracts for equipment and spare parts, disbursements
should be rapid now. The consultants have completed work on the feasibility
studies of 600 km of roads and proposals for detailed engineering of 480 km
of roads have been invited. These studies are likely to form the basis for
a second highway project in the future.
Credit No. 364 and 364a Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of
March 30, 1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates: August 29, 1973 and
November 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of agri-
cultural processing equipment, storage facilities, ancl the settlement of about
14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary infra-
structure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated
in the initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million
each. Although work got off to a slow start in 1974, there has been good
progress in earth-moving, design work and procurement of equipment in 1975.
The new management structure for the project is a distinct improvement.
Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes occurred and an
increase in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved
by the Executive Directors on June 26, 1975. The remaining increase of $81.5
in the foreign exchange cost will be financed by the Kuwait Fund ($39 million),
the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab Fund ($14.5 million).
The Government will meet the increased local cost of the project, totalling
$80 million. The new construction season has just started and progress so
far has been satisfactory in most respects.
Credit No. 447 First Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977.
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan
to function more effectively in financing industrial development in the
private and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet



ANNEX II
Page 4
IBS' requirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975,
but business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved sub-
rojects exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. Disbursements are expected
to be completed in 1976.
Credit No. 457 Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of January 31, 1974;
Effective Date: July 29, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and provide the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complementary trans-
port modes and includes components to assist river transport, port development
and civil aviation. Contracts for supply of much of the equipment under the
credit have been awarded and disbursements are now expected to be rapid.
Useful discussions have recently been held with Sudan Railways about means to
upgrade the standard of operations, which is an important element of this
project.
Credit No. 476 Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project; US$10.7
Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date: September 6, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to farmers,
(ii) expanding extension services (iii) establishing a center for nutrition
research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production through a
program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also aims at
rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and establishing the
nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit and technical
assistance, including staff for a Project Development Ulnit in the Ministry of
Agriculture to implement the project, are also included.    Some key staff
members have been appointed and work on recruiting further staff and providing
housing for them is well advanced. Seed trials and seed multiplication are
under way. The associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed largely by
Germany, is under way. A slow start to this project was expected. In view of
the difficulties faced in recruiting and housing staff for the project, it
will be a year or so before all components of the project are fully under way.
The Government of Norway has recently taken a participation in this credit
amounting to US$5.35 million.
Credit No. 547 Second Education Project; USS10.O Million Credit of May 1975
Effective Date:   September 30, 1975; Closing Date:   June 30, 1982.
The project will lielp meet priority education needs, principally in
Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a new
type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Centre, for curriculum develop-
ment for schooling in the rural context and will support an education sector
survey. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site selection
and the education sector survey has just started.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 546 Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25, 1975
Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project consists of the fourth unit at the Roseires hydro-
electric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, tramsission and dis-
tribution lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and services.
Implementation of the generation and transmission features of the project is
proceeding generally on schedule. Bids have been received for most of the
main components and these indicate that there may be a 25% cost overrun.
PEWC is currently revising cost estimates and considering alternatives to
meet the situation. Management of PEWC is suffering pending reorganization
which has just commenced with Council of Ministers approval of a new struc-
ture in November 1975. Appointment of department heads is awaiting presi-
dential approval. Given improvement in collection (accounts receivable now
stand at the equivalent of 9 months sales), the recent increase of 45% in
electricity tariffs and 60% in water tariffs should however improve PEWC's
financial performance.
Credit No. 589 Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million Credit
of November 11, 1975; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project will continue IDA's support for this development finance
company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized industries.
Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait fund and the
Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the foreign exchange
needs of the Industrial Bank up to mid-1977. The credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
SUDAN - Technical Assistance Credit
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:               US$4.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                Standard
Co-financing:         The Kuwait Fund for Economic and Social Development will
participate and contribute $3 million equivalent for
the project.
Project
Description:        A three year program to help finance studies leading to
high-priority investment in the economy and to expand
the capacity of Sudanese institutions to manage pre-
investment work.
Cost and
Financing:          The project will cost $8.5 million and financing will
be provided by IDA ($4 million), the Kuwait Fund ($3 million)
and the Government ($1.5 million).
Estimated
Disbursements:      The proceeds of the credit will finance up to 85 percent
of approved contract costs and disbursements are estimated
as follows:
(US$ million)
FY76      FY77     FY78      FY79
0.2       1.5      1.3       1.0
Procurement
Arrangements:       All contracts for consultant services exceeding $100,000
in value will be subject to the prior approval of the
Association. Selection of consultants will be in accordance
with procedures outlined in the publication "Uses of Con-
sultants by the World Bank and Its Borrowers."



Annex IV
Page 1 of 4
SUDAN: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APPENDIX TO AGREED MINUTES
PART A: Terms of Reference of the Project Preparation Unit
Purpose
The Project Preparation Unit will ascertain the need for particular
high priority studies and will be concerned with the administration of the
funds earmarked for the Project to finance project preparation work and the
provision of technical assistance in the execution of such work. To enable
it to discharge its functions properly, the Unit will be expected to observe
the requirements outlined below:
(1) Organization and Staffing
The Unit will have a small permanent staff and will organize informal
working parties for work on individual sub-projects. Its staff will consist
of:
a) A Director, who for the duration of the UNDP/IBRD Planning
Assistance Project, will be the Leader of the Planning
Assistance Team;
b) an alternate Director, who will be a Deputy Director General
of the National Planning Commission;
c) three. or more qualified staff members selected from the
National Planning Commission;
d) on a part-time basis, members of the UNDP/IBRD Planning
Assistance Team, Sudanese experts from planning units in
different ministries and agencies and consultants and staff
of the Association and the Kuwait Fund as appropriate; and
e) secretarial and support staff.
The Director will be responsible for drawing up the work plan for the Unit
and for preparing and administering the funds earmarked for the Project, which
will be subject to approval at an appropriate level in the National Planning
Commission.
(2) Coordination
In conducting its business, the Unit will work closely with other
sections of the National Planning Commission in establishing the economic
priority of sub-projects submitted to it, and with the ministries and agencies



Annex IV
Page 2 of 4
responsible for the sub-projects in the analysis and supervision of sub-
projects. Consultation will also be necessary with UNDP, the Association,
the Kuwait Fund and other organizations and agencies contributing funds for
the Project, to ensure coordination of all pre-investment activities.
(3) Procedure for Sub-Project Analysis
The Unit will ensure that all high priority projects are being
prepared appropriately by the responsible agency, and will be free to
propose financing of preparation work if necessary. The Unit will take
the initiative in establishing informal working parties for each sub-project
submitted to it, which will be subject to an initial review to determine
their economic priority in the Borrower's development plans. Once a sub-
project has been tentatively selected, the working party will supervise all
subsequent work on the sub-project. The working party will include, as
appropriate, representatives of ministries and agencies, representatives
of prospective financing organizations and agencies, and consultants employed
to provide technical expertise.
The working party will determine the nature and scope of the studies
required to prepare the sub-project for financing, will help to draw up
terms of reference for those studies and a schedule for their execution, and
in due course help to supervise the execution and evaluation of the studies.
Requirements for coordination with other ministries and agencies would be
identified and agreed with those agencies. If a financing organization or
agency has already been tentatively identified, it would be consulted about
the preparation requirements.
Prior to inviting proposals for the necessary studies, proposals
will be submitted to the Project Review Committee for approval.
The Unit will assist in evaluating proposals made for studies and
in negotiating contracts pertaining to the studies. Agencies and consultants
to execute the studies to be financed out of the funds made available by the
Association, the Kuwait Fund and other contributing organizations and agencies
would, with respect to the studies financed by each such organization or
agency, be selected in accordance with the applicable procedures of said
organization or agency, and the approval of the Project Review Committee will
be required prior to the signature of contracts for carrying out the studies.
Contracts would normally be between the consultants and the National Planning
Commission whose Director General will be empowered to sign such contracts.
(4) Supervision of Project Preparation Studies
The Unit will assist in the technical supervision of studies being
executed, will review progress reports, arrange for prospective financing
agencies to be kept informed of the progress and assist in evaluating the
studies on completion.



Annex IV
Page 3 of 4
(5) Terms of Reference for Sub-Projects
In drawing up terms of reference for sub-projects, the Unit will
ensure that the Project is analysed in all its facets and made ready for
appraisal by a financing agency. The scope of the studies required will
vary, depending on the nature of the preparatory work done prior to submission
of the sub-project to the Unit. It will be the Unit's task to ensure that
all the available alternative solutions to an investment need are appropriately
analysed. The studies will, if necessary, extend to mnarket analysis, engineering
and other technical analysis, incuding implementation plans, analysis of in-
vestment and operating costs, the legal fiscal and financial conditions, and
management, organization and manpower requirements. These studies should also
include analysis of the economics of the project, as well as financial viability
and social cost-benefit analysis as appropriate. The sub-project studies will
address the problems of implementing the project which emerges from them and
will propose solutions to overcome them.
(6) Training
A major objective of the Project will be to assist in establishing
an expanded body of expertise in the field of project selection and preparation
in Sudanese official and private institutions. To this end, the Unit will
assist in establishing or fostering project preparation units in ministries
and agencies where appropriate. Whereever possible, Sudanese institutions or
experts will be associated with the agencies selected to execute the studies,
to provide an opportunity for these institutions to build up their capacity
for this type of work.
PART B: Terms of Reference of the Project Review Committee
Purpose
The Project Review Committee will coordinate pre-investment activities
in the Sudan and exercise general supervision over the carrying out of the
Project including supervision of the administration of funds made available
to the National Planning Commission for project preparation work and the pro-
vision of technical assistance in the execution of such work. To enable it
to discharge its supervisory functions properly, the Committee will be expect i
to observe the requirements outlined below:
(1) Organization and Staffing
The Committee will consist of the following:
a) Director General, National Planning Commnission as Chairman;
b) Resident Representative, United Nations Development Program;



Annex IV
Page 4 of 4
c) Resident Representative, The World Bank;
d) Representative of the Kuwait Fund;
e) Representative of any other organization or agency
contributing funds for the Project; and
f) such other member or members of the Borrower's ministries
and agencies as are appropriate depending on the project
or projects under consideration.
(2) Responsibility and Procedure
The Committee will review the recommendations of the Project
Preparation Unit and evaluate them in the light of criteria to be established,
in particular that such sub-projects are of high priority in the Borrower's
investment plans and have a high expectation to be financed within a short
time. For the agreed sub-projects, the Committee will also work out the
financing arrangements and conditions. The approval of the organizations
and or agencies financing the sub-projects will be required before proposals
are invited for studies for such sub-projects, and before the contracts
thereof are signed.
The Committee will also be responsible for ensuring a high standard
of work by the Project Preparation Unit and adequate coordination with or-
ganizations and agencies assisting the Project.
(3) Proceedings
The Committee will meet regularly at such times and places as its
members will determine and keep adequate records and minutes of its discussions
and decisions.



S UDAN                         1?0    2900     0
'M LES               '                 0
~I'  F T ~ I-I  T   0   100  200  300  400  5900
_. |  _   _ __           ~~~~~~~~~ ~   ~    ~~KI!QNqTtRS`4  
C|NEW ROADS
ROAD UP-GRADtNG                                                              7a
.   MAJOR BRIDGES       ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                     r
*  POWER GENERATION
......... TRANSI ION LINES  IN
*  MICROWAVE LINK           -                    Wad fa
OIL PIPELINE
IRRIGATION EXPANSION
SUGAR PROJECTS                                                    F  D
T*   @  RICE PILOT PROJECTS  N  0  R  T  H                                                    0 R  N
KENAF PROJECTS  - -____________,-…- ---                        S …   A,
@ MECHANIZED                                                                  Port SdanlO
FARMING PROJECTS
9  TEXTILE FACTORIES
. D  LEATHER TANNERIES
.   MAJOR SCHOOLS       .x
-* UISTINGRAILWAYS
_  -PROVINCE
BOUNDARIES  ./                   i 
RIME RD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
,  r        \        '              OmoOursmOan::0 WR>RTCOOJ   WKA  5C W~~~AAFWA  )Y
0                    R    N  OR  T H   t R  N Ad u e m ;   Q   e   o   a
Genein.,-      0              Es
O   f~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .   ,~ ~ ~ ~   E I F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ E I
'.o-ingei    N
0g    U T H   F R A/ a7Dobnusa       o            o 
jf   \ D~~~ A  R  F  U  R -Ll/KORDOFAN                g   JR/E     V(4
IT/                          R1  W'                                                           I ,.
*   < o r,i I  _     ___\-4\>o5°RER                 '(    . E T H I O P t A
->SAHR  E     gAS    Z1--W 
CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC
UDO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
A F °  .      s ;<-stt       V    ;       tA     F2 
REPUBLIC OF Z AI R F
\  J  ,   JGAN DA          KENYA
.             >/  7,. c>tnn~.s osdsi Ir #. s:.,5- Y ,k-



