CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 614 SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 7, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 7, 1976, between THE DEMDCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) aud
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "UNDP/IBRD Planning Assistance Team" means the Planning
Team provided to the Borrower under the United Nations Development
Program Project No. SUD/72/030;
b)   "sub-project" means any specific study or project of
technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: and
(c)  "UNDP" means United Nations Development Program.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dol-
lars ($4,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower may withdraw from the Credit Account
an amount equal to such percentage or percentages as shall be agreed
from time to time between the Borrower and the Association, of such
amounts as shall have been paid, (or, if the Association shall so
agree, as shall be required to meet payments to be made) after the
date of this Agreement for the reasonable cost of goods and services
required to carry out sub-projects, provided that withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of any sub-project shall not exceed
eighty-five percent (85%) of the total cost of such sub-project.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date s-all be December 31, 1979, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1986, and ending October 1, 2025,
each installment to and including the installment payable on Octo-
ber 1, 1995, tobe one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such princinal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Project for which the Credit is granted con-
sists in the carrying out of high-priority studies and other proj-
ects of technical assistance, including suitable training courses,
designed to assist the Borrower in the planning and implementation
of its programs of economic development, said studies and projects
being selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.02. The purposes and scope of each sub-project, the
methods for implementation thereof and the specific allocation
thereto of proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclu-
sively to expenditures on the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts exceeding $100,000 in value, made by the Borrower for
consultants' services and for the purchase of equipment to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be subject to the
prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods financed out


﻿-6-
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause each sub-project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall make avail-
able, promptly as needed, any funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out each sub-
project, the Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced con-
sultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Association on terms
and conditions, including terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall establish in its Ministry of Finance,
Planning and National Economy a Project Preparation Unit which
shall consist of (i) the leader of the UNDP/IBRD Planning Assis-
tance Team who shall be the Director of the Unit; (ii) a Deputy
Under-Secretary for Planni"g of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance,
Planning and National Economy, who shall be the Alternate Director
of the Unit; (iii) three or more project analysts provided by the
Borrower; and (iv) such other members (including members of the
UNDP/IBRD Planning Assistance Team) as the Unit shall require.
The Unit shall, subject to the functions of the Project Review
Committee under paragraph (c) hereof, be responsible for carrying
out the Project and shall in particular be responsible inter alia
for identifying high priority sub-projects and with respect to any
sub-project for selecting services, equipment and supplies and
directing their use for the sub-project, supervising and directing


﻿-8-
the work of the consultants employed therefor, and recommending
any modifications of their terms of reference or other terms and
conditions of their employment, and reviewing the reports and
recommendations of such consultants.
(c) The Borrower shall also establish a Project Review Com-
mittee which shall consist of (i) the Under-Secretary for Planning
of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Eco-
nomy, who ehall be Chairman of the Committee; (ii) the resident
representatives of UNDP and of the Association; (iii) representa-
tives of any other organizations and agencies contributing funds
for the Project; and (iv) such other persons as the Committee shall
require. The Committee shall exercise general supervision over the
carrying out of the Project.
(d) The policies and procedures of the Project Preparation
Unit and the Project Review Committee shall be determined by the
Borrower in consultation with the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall co-operate fully with the consultants
in the performance of their services for the Project and make avail-
able to them all information relevant to the Project.
(f) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment (including the terms of reference)
of the consultants employed for any sub-project, or grant any mate-
rial extension of time or any approval of sub-contractors or modi-
fications thereof, or substitution of personnel of such consultants,
or suspend payments under, or terminate, any contract with such
consultants without the prior agreement of the Association.


﻿-9-
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause consultants employed
for the Project promptly to furnish the Association with copies of
the documents prepared by them for the Project, including reports
and drafts thereof, in such number as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the documents
referred to in paragraph (a) above.
(c) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof);
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect any rec-
ords and documents relevant to the Project, including records and
documents which the consultants employed by the Borrower shall be
required to keep for the purposes of the Project, and shall furnish
or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expend-
iture of the proceeds of the Credit and the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 7, 1976, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of State for Planning of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy, is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Planning and
National Economy
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR,
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Francis Mading Deng
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


