Documenl of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7079
PROJECT COMPLETION RErORT
PERU
SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S19-PE)
January 5, 1988
Industry Departrent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Sol (SI.)
GOVERNMENT OF PERU FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ABBREVIATIONS
COFIDE     -  Compania Financiera de Desarrollo
DR         -  Direct Reduction Process for the production of sponge
iron used as raw material in steelmaking
EAF        - Electric Arc Furnace
LD         -  Linz Donawitz (Basic Oxygen Furnace)
SIDERPERU  -  EmDress Siderurgica del Peru
SLRN       -  Stelco-Lurgi - Republic National (a Coal-based DR
process)
tpy        -  Metric tons per year.



FOM OFMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wdshingtni. DC 20433
USA
January 5, 1988
IEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Peru - Siderperu
Technical Assistance Project (Loan S-19-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of   report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Peru - Siderperu Technical A. -tance Project (Loan
S19-PE)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discobsed without World Bank au!thorization.



M Ol(ICIAL US ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU - SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-19-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......... **** ........j........                                       i
BASIC DATA SHEET .........*..                            ....                  i
HIGHLIGHTS .................. ...
I.  INTRODUCTION ...........................                                  1
II.  PROJECT BACKGROUND ..........................................             1
A.  Project Origin, Appraisal and Loan Approval            .............  1
B.  Project Objectives and Description              ......................  2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT           .......................   3
A.  Achievement of Project Objectives .......................            3
B.  Project Management ............................... .                 3
C.  Implementation Schedule    ...............       ..................  6
D.  Performance of Consultants  6.............................           6
E.   Disbursements ........         .................................    7
IV.  CONCLUSIONS .......                                                       7
A.  Overall Assessment ...7.......                .................... ...  7
B.  Lessons Learned                                                      7
BORROWER'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ..............................  10- 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
PERU - SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-19-PE)
PIREPACE
Loan 5-19-PR for the SIDERPZRU Steel Company, in the aount of
US$5.0 million, was signed on Deceuber 15, 1980, and becam *ffective
April 16, 1981. After one extension of the cloaing date, the Government of
Peru requested on OLtob4r 31, 1985, that the undiabursed portlon of the
loan (US$3.4 million) be cancelled. The loan was closed on December 9,
1985.
The original objective of the loan had been to strengthen
SIDERPERU's project execution and plant operation capability to enable it
to install iuccesafully and manage a two-stage 400,000 tpy expansion of the
Chimbote steel mill. After completion of a technical diagnostic study in
August 1981, (financed under the loan) it was deterained that prior to
embarking on the expansion project, the plant had to undergo a full
rehabilitation project.  In Oct-ber 1982, SIDERPERU agreed to postpone the
expansion program and concentrate on the rehabilitation effort and the
project scope from expansion to rehabilitation was formally approved by the
Bank on April 12, 1983;
The Project Completion Report has been prepared by the Industry
Department based on a draft report from SIDERPERU, information In project
files and knowledge of staff in the Industry Department who were associated
with this project. A Bank mission visited Peru in October 1986 for the
purpose of preparing this report.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report
to Government and the Borrower for comments. However, no comments were
received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU - SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-19-PE)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Project Data
Loan Amount (US$ million)
Original  Disbursed  Cancelled   Repaid   Outstanding
5.0         1.6        3.4         1.6
Cumulative Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank FY:  1981       1982       1983       1984
Appraisal Estimate               1.2        3.1       4.7        5.0
Actual                           -          0.4       1.3        1.4
Project Appraisal               February 1980
Board Approval                  July 1980
Loan Signing                    December 1980
Loan Effectiveness              April 1981
Loan Closing                    December 1985
Completion                      N/A
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of        Report
Mission                    Month/Year          Days     Persons         Date
Identification           09/79                                        09/04/79
Preappraisal             02/80                   5          3         02/19/80
Appraisal                03/80 & 06/80           8          2         07/14/80
Supervision I            04/81                   5          2         07/29/81
Supervision II           06/81                   5         2          07/29/81
Supervision III          10/81                   5          3         11/11/81
Supervision :V           03/82                  10         2          04/16/82
Supervision V            05/82                   5          2         07/12/82
Supervision VI           10/82                   4          1         10/28/82
Supervision VII          01/83                  17          2         02/03/83
Supervision VIII         03/83                   4          1         04/04/83
Supervision IX           04/83a/                 3          5         05/04/83
Supervision X            04/83                  11         3          06/10/83
Supervision XI           09/83                   6          3         09/30/83
Supervision XII          02/84                   5          1         10/18/83
Supervision XIII         06/84a/                 3          3         07/02/84
Supervision XIV          04/85                   6          2         07/08/85
PCR                      10/86                   5          2         10/31/86
a/ Visit by Peruvian delegation and consultants.



- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU - SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PkOJECT
(LOAN S-19-PE)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project was conceived as technical assistance to SIDERPERU to
strengthen the company's project management capabilities and to implement
successfully and manage its expanded facilities (para- 3.01). With this
objective, the SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project was approved in July
1980.
SIDERPERU's Chimbote plant, located 460 km north of Lima, was at
that time the only integrated steel plant in Peru, accounting for 90X of
the steelmaking capacity in the country.   Although the plant's crude steel
capacity was rated at 500,000 tons per year, its rolling capacity was in
excess of 700,000 tpy and the company had relied on imported slabs and
billets to feed its rolling mills. To eliminate this imbalance and to cope
with an apparent growth in steel demand in the country (which at the time
had one of the lowest per capita consumptions in Latin America) the company
had begun implementing a balancing and expansion program.
Shortly after Board approval of the loan, the new Government that
took office in July 1980, requested a full review of the expansion program.
Before agreeing to sign the loan, it also questioned the quality of
existing operations and whether the expansion being planned would still be
viable with tariffs lower than those prevailing at the time (para. 3.02).
In response, the Bank agreed to include in the project scope a review of
the Stage I expansion and a diagnostic study of the plant and its existing
operations, including market and  sector  issues.    On these premises, the
loan was signed in December 1980 and made effective in April of the
following year after nine and a half months of delay (para. 3.03).
in June 1981, a Belgian consulting engineering firm associated
with an operating steel company was selected to carry out the diagnostic
study. The study, which was completed in August 1981, revealed that the
plant facilities were in such poor condition that they would require
substantial rehabilitation (para.  3.04).    In  addition, poor maintenance
practices resulting mainly from the compan,"s lack of funds had aggravated
the situation during the period 1980/81.    It was therefore decided - with
full agreement of the Bank - to restore the company's operating efficiency
and improve its financial position prior to embarking on the expansion
project. In October 1981, SIDERPERU agreed to postpone the expansion
project and to undertake a full feasibility study (also including bidding
doctments and technical specifications) of the rehabilitation project
(para. 3.06).   That  confirmed  SIDERPERU's  intent  to change the project
objective and physical scope from expansion to rehabilitation.



- iv -
The feasibility study was completed during 1982. In parallel, a
management diagnostic study was carried out and some of its recommendations
implemented in early  1983.    By  then,  however,  the company's financial
position had seriously deteriorated and declining steel demand made the
full rehabilitation project, estimated at US$170 million, no longer viable
(para. 3.09). After a number of attempts to reduce the scope of the
project to fit budget and market prospects, a minimum sCope estimated at
US$38 million was agreed and a project manager was selocted in June 1985.
SIDERPERU's Board, with a new national Government coming into office.
postponed a decision to approve contract negotiations with the selected
consulting firm. Subsequently, the new Board appointed by the incoming
Government refused to approve the selection on the grounds that it lacked
sufficient information to act.    After  one  extension of the loan closing
date in June 1985, the Government requested cancellation of the undisbursed
balance of the loan in October 1985 (para. 3.14). The Bank cancelled the
loan on December 9, 1985, with US$3.4 million still undisbursed.
Although there were some achievements under this project, they
remain largely obscured by the overall failure to implement the project
components. First, after completion of the diagnostic study, the Bank
successfully ccnvinced SIDERPERU to reorient its priorities and focus on
rehabilitation and operating practices.   Second, the Bank was instrumental
in the quick and efficient implementation of the management diagnostic
study and subsequent plan of action which instituted some changes in the
management organization  which  still  prevail.    Third, through intensive
dialogue  with  the   Government,   the   Bank   pressed  for  a  financial
restructuring of the company as a condition for project execution (a
financial restructuring took place during 1984). Finally, the Bank brought
into perspective the need to undertake broad studies of the overall
development of the steel sector to help establish and clarify the role that
SIDERPERU should play in such a development (para. 4.01).
Two important lessons can be learned from this project. First,
when the Bank is not able to participate actively and in a timely way in
the design and supervision of the preparatory work, it may happen that all
the elements required for satisfactory appraisal are not carefully studied.
Although in the case of the SIDERPERU T.A. loan it was stated that the
first  stage  expansion  had  not   been  appraised  in  depth,  a  blanket
endorsement of the company's overall expansion program was provided by the
Bank. While the T.A. loan financed the studies that led to the conclusions
that substantial rehabilitation work was required prior to embarking in the
ambitious expansion program, this might also have become evident if a more
thorough appraisal had been  carried  out.    it  is also possible that, by
endorsing  the  concept  of  expansion,  the  Bank  may  have  impaired the
management's credibility to  sell  the  rehabilitation  program  to the new
government after it  became  apparent  that  the  expansion project was not
viable. Second, the difficulties associated with a forthcoming change in
government should not be underestimated.    Although there was a perception
of support from the incoming new government, SIDERPERU was concerned with
possible delays that would occur if a new economic team had to review and
approve the project concept. In Peru this was admittedly a lengthy process



-v -
because of the various layers of government agencies which were normally
required to review and  approve  public  sector  projects.   The long delay
experienced between loan approval and eventual effectiveness in this
project, however, have shown that expediency in processing a loan prior to
government changes can produce opposite results than those desired.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU - SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN S-19-PE)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project (the Project) was
d- 4 ned to assist the company to:  (i) strengthen its project execution
cai   lity and enable it to implement successfully and manage the Stage I
expaeron project (442 of project costs); (ii) improve its operating
pract ies, including yield and quality standards, maintenance procedures,
produc.lon planning and information systems (20% of project costs);
(iii) provice staff training, both for coal-based DR operations and other
practices (232 of project costs); and (iv) finance feasibility studies for
the Stage II expansion project and other smaller studies (13% of project
costs).
1.02      Peru is a country with adequate amounts of raw materials needed
for the production of steel. High quality iron ore pellets are produced in
mines located about 600 miles to the south of Chimbore and coal suitable
for the direct reduction process is economically available from nearby
mines. Despite these natural advantages, and despite having one of the
lowest per capita steel consumptious in Latin America, Peru's domestic
steel production had been unable to satisfy domestic demand. In fact prior
to project appraisal, the country had been importing up to 30% of its steel
requirements./
1.03      Since 1975, SIDERPERU had been operating successfully an
experimental kiln to test the use of the STARN coal-based direct reduction
(DR) technology owned by Lurgi of Germany. It permitted the use of low
cost anthracite coal located close to Chimbote to produce sponge iron from
iron ore pellets. Sponge iron can be substituted for scrap in an electric
arc furnace (EAF).
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin, Appraisal and Loan Approval
2.01      The Project developed in mid-1979 from a Government request for
Bank assistance in reviewing two plans for the debottlenecking and
expansion of the Peruvian steel industry. One of the plans presented to
the Bank consisted of a two-stage installation of a new 1 million ton per
year conventional blast furnace plant and a second one consisting of a
short-term development program, which would entail a small phased
debottlenecking and minor improvements and the expansion of liquid steel
capacity in two stages of 200,000 tons per year each. The Bank did not
agree with the 1 million ton per year project since, under local market
1/   A large portion of these imports, however, were black plate coils
which could not be manufactured by SIDERPERU.



-2-
conditions existing at the time, a large portion of the output would have
had to be exported and the plant could not reach the levels of production
that would make it competitive in the international market. Instead, the
Bank recommended the short-term development program which was considered
financially and economically more attractive.
2.02      In February 1980, a Bank identification mission visited Lime and
Chimbote and determined that the technical viability of the short-term
developoent progrm (i.e., 400,000 tpy expansion in two stages) was sound.
The mission, however, reached this conclusion solely from discussions with
SIDERPERU's technical staff, since no project related study had yet been
supplied to the Bank. In fact, SIDERPERU (which was well under way for the
procurement of the Phase I expansion) was initially concerned that Bank
participation would delay the project and were reluctant to release a
UNIDO-financed study, apparently the only available document at the time,
because of what it considered "the narrow scope of the study" 2/ and the
possibility that it might have been misinterpreted by government
officials. After a one-man, one-day mission to France to review with
SIDERPERU and French consultants (which had met to review the bids received
for the first phase expansion and selection of suppliers), it was
recommended that the Bank consider making an engineering loan to cover the
foreign exchange cost of a contract for management services, associated
with the provision of training and operating assistance, in the amount of
US$5.0 million.
2.03      With national elections forthcoming in May of 1980, SIDERPERU had
indicated to the Bank «hat it expected to place contracts on tne four
equipment packages, which had already beer defined, as soon as possible.
In order to provide for the consulting services to be financed by the
Project in a timely manner, the Bank proposed to expedite loan processing.
The Project was appraised in February 1980.  Negotiations wera held in
Washington on June 1980 and a loan of US$5.0 million was approved on
July 15, 1980. The loan became effective on April 16, 1981.
B. Project Objectives and Description
2.04      The Project was designed to strengthen SIDERPERU's capabillties
for efficient project execution and plant operation. Specifically, it
consisted of the following:
(a)  consulting services to assist in project management for the
installation and start-up of a 200,000 tpy Stage I expansion
program;
(b)  consulting services to provide assistance in the operation of
existing plant facilities and initial operations of the Stage I
facilities;
2/   The Dastur study compared the ironmaking alternatives between blast
furnace (based on imported coke) vs. the direct reduction (based on
domestic anthracite).



3
(c)  assistance froQ a steel company experienced in coal-based DR
technology to prQvide training for SIDERPERU's staff both or the
job and in its plant abroad and consulting services to establish
a training program for SIDERPERU; and
(d)  consulting services to prepare a feasibility study for the
Stage II expansion program, including a technical end econosic
review of the Stage I expansion, and studies of coal
transportation and electric systems.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
3.01      The Project had been originally designed to strengthen
SIDERPERU's project execution and plant operations capability to enable it
to install successfully and manage its expanded facilities. The first
stage expansion was dropped about 14 months after Board approval in favor
of the rehabilitation project which had been recommended by the conaultants
who undertook the diagnostic study (para 3.02). At the closing date of the
TA loan, none of the original project objectives had been achieved.
B. Project Management
Diagnostic Study
3.02      Before the Government which took office aftet approval of the
Bank loan in July 1980 would agree to signature of the loan, it requested
that the scope of the Project be modified to include a thorough
technical/economic review of the proposed expansion project and to
undertake an evaluation of the company's overall operating capabilities and
future prospects.
3.03      The Bank agreed to include and finance under Section D of the
Project (Studies) a diagnostic study aimed at: (i) improving existing
operations with respect to volume, yield, quality and costs; (ii) defining
a short-term rehabilitation and modernization program; and (iii) defining
the framework for a long-term development strategy. Although the company's
management at the time initially resisted carrying out these studies, the
Government and SIDERPERU finally agreed to have consultants review the
company's investment program and the loan was signed on December 15, 1980.
3.04      In January 1981 the company's president and management team
resigned. An acting company president was appointed in February and
had to deal with a extremely difficult management situation within the
company. In addition, considerable pressure was being exerted by equipment
suppliers with whom SIDERPER'J had signed contracts in mid-1980. In May
1981, a General Manager was appointed to the newly created position and
successfully expedited the selection and appointment of a Belgian
consulting engineering firm, (in association with an operating steel
company), to undertake the diagnostic study. The final report, submitted



-4-
in August 1981, co;tfirmed the need and the basic viability of a
rehabilitation project.3/ The basic viability of the rehabilitation
project was also confir ed by an independent consultant retained by the
Bank to review the consultant's report.
3.05      The fact that the operating steel company in charge of the
technical aspects of the study operated equipment similar to SIDERPERU's
greatly contributed to the quality of the technical report. On the other
hand, the report was less precise in areas such as market, capital costs
and financial and economic analysis.  The consultants, however, were  most
receptive to Bank observations.
Management Diagnostic Study
3.06      With the overall viability of the rehabilitation project
confirmed by the diagnostic study, in October 1981 SIDERPERU and the Bank
agreed to carry out its full feasibility study. To expedite project
implementation, the study would also include the preparation of technical
specifications and bidding documents. At the same time, it was decided to
retain a specialized management consulting firm to review the company's
management structure and management information systems, and make
recommendations for their improvement.
3.07      Serious objections by the Board of SIDERPERU about the need for
these studies delayed approval for both the feasibility and management
studies until the end of January 198' In February, action was started to
request a formal change in the scope of the Project from expansion to
rehabilitation and to include the additional studies. (In April 1983 an
amendment to the TA loan was circulated to the Bank EDs on a no-objection
basis.)
3.08      The selection of the winning bid for the management diagnostic
study was approved in late July 1982 but protracted contract negotiations
delayed the start of work until late September. The preliminary report was
completed in January 1983. The Bank, however, found the report inadequate
inasmuch as it did not provide a clear stracegy and plan of action to carry
out its major recommendations. The consultants agreed to expand the report
and it was subsequently finalized in March 1983. Although SIDERPERU's
present organizational structure reenonds to some of the report's
recommendations, the bulk of the proposals were never implemented.
Subsequent changes in the company's top management account'- to some extent
- for the lack of action in implementing needed management reorganization.
Feasibility Study
3.09      The feasibility study for the full rehabilitation project
recommended by the diagnostic study was completed in January 1983. The
scope consisted of a complete revamping of the blast furnace, electric arc
3/   However, the detailed makeuo of that project, and timing of its
implementation still needed further clar0ifcation.



-5-
furnaces and LD converters, debottlenecking of the rolling mills,
improvements to the direct reduction facilities, overall upgrading of
instrumentation throughout the plant and complete rehabilitation of the
networks for water and electrical services. Under this project, it was
expected to restore plant production to its rated capacity of about 500,000
tons of liquid steel per year. Estimated cost of the project was
US$170 million.
3.10      At the completion of the feasibility study, however, a number of
new developments were making the full rehabilitation project no longer
viable. First, the economic performance of the country for the previous
two years had deteriorated, and both actual and future projected demand for
steel had been seriously affected. Second, as a result of inconsistent
government trade policies which practically liberalized steel imports while
maintaining heavy duties on coke, spares and other imported items required
by SIDERPERU, sale had declined and the financial situation of the company
had worsened. There were no prospects for recovery without massive new
capitalization, particularly with the deteriorating market outlook. Last,
but not least, a new non-flat steel producer had started up in January 1983
and was expected to achieve rapidly significant production levels (due to
his utilization of a simpler process route EAF based on scrap) with a
resulting decline in SIDERPERU's share of the non-flat market. As a
consequence of these developments, by 1983 the company was no longer in a
position to undertake the full rehabilitation project and the technical
consultants were asked to revise their report with the objective of
defining a minimum rehabilitation program. Their work was completed in
April 1983 and the cost of the reduced project was estimated at
US$110 million.
3.11      COFIDE technical engineering staff, acting independently and
without consultation with SIDERPERU, contracted a Spanish consulting firm
to review the minimum rehabilitation scope. The consultants recommended
and COFIDE supported a new approach whereby the minimum rehabilitation
project would be implemented in two phases. The first phase would focus
only on investments in non-process equipment (electricity and water
networks, control equipment, instrumentation) with some minor revamping of
the EAFs and the non-flat rolling mills. The blast furnace, which had been
shutdown since August, would not be rehabilitated a..d all steel making
would be via the EAFs. The investment cost of the first phase was
estimated at US$33 million.
3.12      The top management of the company at the time did not agree with
this approach. The Bank supported the argument that further work to
justify the mothballing of the blast furnace was required because the
economics of producing steel solely via the EAFs had not been fully
demonstrated. COFIDE agreed to undertake further analysis. However,
frustrated by the lack of government support in implementing the financial
restructuring package, the perceived increased interference by COFIDE in
the administration of the company, and major disagreements on technical
matters, SIDERPERU's president, General Manager and Board all resigned
during the last quarter of 1983. A new President and General Manager (a
former COFIDE consultant) were appointed shortly thereafter.



6-
3.13      Early in 1984, the first tranche of the financial restructuring
package took place. Simultaneously, SIDERPERU's technical staff prepared a
feasibility study for a US$38 million first phase rehabilitation project
and representatives from COFIDE and SIDERPERU presented it in Washington in
June 1984. The Bank indicated at the meetings that, while in agreement to
proceed with the thrust of the TA project in support of the scaled-down
rehabilitation project, the Government should explore other financing
sources for the investment project, should the Bank deteruine it could not
provide financing in a timely manner.
3.14      In late 1984, the procurement of project management and operating
assistance was started. After a protracted selection procedure, a winning
bid was selected in June 1985, but the Board - with a new national
government coming into office in July of that year - was reluctant to
authorize contract negotiations. Shortly after the new government took
office, SIDERPERU's Board and top management were changed. The new Board
refused to consider approval of the selected firm on the grounds that they
lacked sufficient knowledge to act. After one extension of the loan in
June 1985, in October of the same year the Government requested
cancellation of tte loan.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.15      The implementation of the Project encountered substantial delays
immediately after loan approval. Also, despite apparent agreement during
project appraisal from officials of the forthcoming Government with
SIDERPERU's expansion plans, loan signature and effectiveness were delayed
by the new Government five and nine months, respectively. These were
caused by their serious - and valid - objections regarding tariff issues
and their concern about the overall ability of management to operate the
company. None of these issues had been addressed by the Project, although
the need to strengthen SIDERPERU's management had been identified during
project preparation.
3.15      SIDERPERU had an experienced and highly competent core of
engineers in its Planning Department who were able to grasp quickly Bank
procurement procedures for the selection of consultants, and did an
excellent technical job of bid evaluations in all instances. On the other
hand, a cumbersome and bureaucratic system of internal (Board) and external
(Government) approvals was largely responsible for processing delays.
3.16      Given the absence of a formal implementation schedule in the
Appraisal (President's) Report and the very substantial changes in project
scope, a meaningful comparison between estimated and actual implementation
dates cannot be made.
D. Performance of Consultants
3.17      During most of the implementation period, SIDERPERU depended
heavily on consultants. Their performance was generally satisfactory, but
some of the success resulted from the extensive amount of Bank supervision
received by the Project. On the other hand, although the diagnostic and



- 7 -
feasibility studies were completed on time, some aggravation and delays
could have been avoided if all parties (i.e., SIDERPERU, the consultants
and the Bank) could have defined and agreed more clearly on some of the
main technical parameters (i.e., market growth rates, seiling price
assumptions, methodology for economic analysis, etc.), as well as
presentation requirements (such as tables, annexes, etc.) required in
studies and reports.
E. Disbursements
3.18      Disbursements were made against 100% of foreign expenditures for
contracts awarded for consulting contracts. Owing to the substantial delay
in loan effectiveness, no disbursements were made during the first year of
the loan and less than 10% of the expected total was disbursed during the
second year. The bulk of the disbursemerts was made during the third and
fourth year. At the time the loan was closed, five years after approval,
disbursements totalled US$1.4 million or only 28% of the total loan
amount. The undisbursed amount of US$3.6 million was cancelled.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
A. Overall Assessment
4.01      Although the Project did not achieve its stated objectives and
the expansion, under the original project scope, was not carried out, the
rehabilitation of the company's facilities under the revised project scope,
coupled with a thorough financial, management and labor restructuring,
would have been economically justifiable. Through intensive supervision by
the same Bank team during 1981-84 and excellent rapport with the company's
top management during the same period, the Bank was flexible and quick in
redirecting the main thrust of the TA project as well as supportive of the
company's efforts. It also acted as a positive mediator between the
company and the government agencies but, ultimately, the inability of the
Government to define, support and implement a national steel development
program and its inconsistent pricing and trade policies proved to be too
difficult for the project to overcome. Also the questionable role of the
holding company (COFIDE) and its interference in the management of
SIDERPERU (mainly during late 1984/85) had a detrimental impact on projec.
implementation. FinaAly, even the small benefits achieved under the
Project have become either diluted by subsequent inaction (i.e., management
study) or are being jeopardized (financial restructuring) by presenc sector
policies.
B. Lessons Learned
4.02      The lessons of this project reaffirm past experience on the
critical effects of inadequate project preparation. First, in the case of
a project which - either through expansion or rehabilitation - is designed
to expand significantly its output, it is imperative to examine carefully
not only its market, but also to define clearly objectives of physical
scope and technical and economic viability. A technical assistance proj3ct



- a -
per se is not a substitute for adequate and thorough project preparation
although in instances where the local talent is clearly lacking, 't can
help to bring the analysis into proper focus. Thus, if an adequate
feasibility analysis is not available, the Bank can, when called upon, play
an important role in assisting the borrower through this effort by means of
a well-designed engineering loan before any commitment for the supply of
equipment is made. In any case project feasibility must be evaluated
separately - and prior to - project implementation. Efforts to remedy
shortcomings and deficiencies in preparatory work throughout project
implementation will, in most instances, prove ineffective. The policy
environment in which the project will continue to operate after its
completion also needs tc be carefully evaluated to ensure that the project
in fact can achieve its economic objectives.  Only after the Bank is fujl.,
satisfied that these conditions either exist or will be properly addressed
as part of project design should it endorse the scope of the project.
4.03      Second, it is recognized that free standing TA loans offer a good
opportunity for support'ng institutional development and that successful
project implementation of a public sector company within a complex
government bureaucracy depends heavily on these institutional
arrangements. Thus, when two or more Ministries or government agencies are
involved and the company does not enjoy proper autonomy (or conversely can
be subject to interference from other government agencies), such
institutional arrangements must be addressed to provide for effective
project implementation.
4.04      Finally, the difficulties associated with a forthcoming change in
government should not be underestimated. Expediency in processing a loan
prior to such change can lead, as in this case, to poor proœect
preparation.



- 9 -
EMPRESA SIDERURGICA DEL PERU
SIDERPERU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN AGREEMENT S-19 PE



- 10 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
L.0                       ........................................ Introduction.11
2.0       The   Loan   Agreement...1..................................       11
2.1        Background ...                                                    11
2.2       Objectives   and   scope..................................         11
2.3       Modifications ........................................             12
3.0       Uses of Loan Proceeds ......................             .         12
3.1       Review of expansion program feasibility study                      13
3.2        Preparation of rehabilitation project feasibility study           13
3.3       Management consulting services  . .14
4.0    Administrative Issues .                  .                            15
5.0        Conclusions..........................................            .15
6.0        Brief Outline of Sequence of Events
Annex No. I .........................................             17
Annex No. 2 ..19



- 11 -
1.0       Introduction
This report is made in reference to Loan Agreement S-19 PE, signed
by SIDERPERU and the World Bank for US$5 million, a sum designed to help fund
execution of SIDERPERU's investment projects and strengthen its organizational
and managerial capacities.
2.0       The Loan Agreement
2.1       Background
In 1979, SIDERPERU had been about to begin implementation of the
first stage of its expansion program, but a World Bank mission that visited
the enterprise in 1980, on becoming fully acquainted with the program, noted
that in view of its importance and complexity SIDERPERU should be advised to
obtain technical assistance with its execution.
Subsequently, in December that year, SIDERPERU and the Bank
therefore entered into Loan Agreement S-19 PE (SIDERPERU Technical Assistance
Project), under which a sum of US$5 million equivalent was to be lent.
Ratified by the Government of Peru via Presidential Decree No.
279-80-EF of December 31, 1980, the Agreement had the guarantee of the
Republic of Peru, extended via Executive Decree No. 23194 of July 19, 1980.
2.2       Objectives and scope
As the Agreement itself stated, the objectives of the project were
to assist SIDERPERU in the execution and full appraisal of the first stage of
its expansion program and to strengthen its project execution and plant
operating capabilities.
The Agreement described the project as consisting of four parts:
Part A:   Project management services
Strengthening of SIDERPERU'S project management capability by means
of the provision and utilization of about 230 man-months of consultants'
services to assist it in managing the execution and start-up of the first
stage.
Part B:   Operating assistance
Improvement of SIDERPERU'S operating methods and practices,
inter alia, yield and quality standards, maintenance procedures, production
planning and information systems, by means of the provision and utilization of
about 100 man-months of consultants' services, to be utilized in the operation
of existing plant facilities and initial organization of the facilities
installed in the first stage.



- 12 -
Part C:   Training of SIDERPERU staff
(i)    On-the-job training and training abroad for about 50 persons in the
operation of the first stage; and
(ii)    developing and establishing a permanent trainiing program.
Part D:   Studies
(i)    Execution of a complete feasibility study for the second stage which
was to include: (A) a review of the technical and economic aspects
of the first stage with a view to: (1) identifying possible design
changes that might improve the efficiency of the first stage, and
(2) gathering data and information for the design of the second
stage; and (B) a market study and estimates of capital and operating
costs.
(ii)    Execution of a study to identify the most appropriate means of
transporting coal to Chimbote from mines selected by SIDERPERU.
(iii)    Execution of a study of SIDERPERU'S power generation capacity, its
internal electrical network and its connection to the national grid
systems, with a view to determining the changes in them required for
their improvement and for adapting the enterprise's existing
electric systems to the needs of the expansion program.
2.3       Modifications
Following a decision not to proceed for the moment with the first
stage of the expansion program, SIDERPERU, with Bank approval, decided to
focus on rehabilitating its plant facilities and postpone plans for expansion.
It was therefore agreed with the Bank that the objectives as set out
in the Loan Agreement would be modified, that the first stage of the program
would be replaced by a "1980-1985 Expansion Program," and that the latter
would comprise rehabilitation (modernization) and expansion measures.
3.0       Uses of Loan Proceeds
At closing of this Agreement, a total of US$1,360,814.48 had been
utilized, leaving a balance of US$3,639,815.52.
Loan proceeds were employed in three categories of technical
assistance activities.
In selecting and awarding contracts to the consulting firms that
would be carrying out these activities, SIDERPERU followed Bank guidelines
("Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," August 1981) and remained in
close contact with the Bank throughouit the process.



- 13 -
3.1       Review of expansion program feasibility study
3.1.1     Objective
To review the feasibility study of the expansion program prepared by
SIDERPERU.
3.1.2     Description
A contract to obtaini this service--provided during the course of
1981 at a total cost of US$308,964--was entered into with
Tractionel/Mecanarbed, a Belgien-Luxembourg firm selected with help from Amaro
Lanari Jr. Asesoria Ltda. and the approval of the Bank.
3.1.3     Results
The goals specified in the respective contracts were achieved to the
satisfaction of both SIDERPERU and the World Bank.
In following up the consultants' recommendations, SIDERPERU, WitLu
Bank consent, decided to postpone Stage I of its the expansion program unvil
it had carried out a rehabilitation project.
3.2       Preparation of the rehabilitation project feasibility study
3.2.1     Objective
To prepare a feasibility study on a rehabilitation project designed
to achieve maximum production levels with existing plant and facilities.
3.2.2     Description
The rehabilitation project feasibility study was conducted in two
phases, with consulting assistance from Tractionel/Mecanarbed.
The first phase led to a conclusion that rehabilitation measures
costing a total of US$110 million were necessary.
In conjunction with the World Bank and the relevant Peruvian public
agencies with sector responsibilities, SIDERPERU decided to go ahead with
rehabilitation in two stages. To help decide the dimensions of the first, a
supplementary study was undertaken, the conclusion being that there was an
investment requirement of US$72.9 million.
In order to provide assistance for Tractionel/Mecanarbed and to
ensure the project would mesh with the arrangements to obtain management
consulting services, Edmund Mangan of Bethlehem Steel, was retained to provide
advice.
ToLal cost of the services connected with this study, which were
provided in 1982 and the first half of 1983, was US$566,423.



- 14 -
3.2.3     Results
The objectives and goals of both the initial and sup?lementary
feasibility studies and the consulting services provided by Mr. Mangan were
accomplished in a manner satisfactory to SIDERPERU and the Bank.
The iiitial study determined the full range of investment activities
that would be required for rehabilitation. The supplementary study, besides
orioritizing thenL in the light of the financial constraints on both the
e:-terprise and th, country itself, also ircluded preliminary engineering
di-ign studies, the foundation for the detailed engineering designs and
tzchnical specifications on which the international procurement procedures
's,ociated with the rehabilitaLion project would be based.
The presence of the consultants and the active particir,ation of the
Bank enabled SIDERPERU to familiarize itself with one method of preparing
feasibility studies (which includes the use of computer piograms for
calculation of product-.on costs and for project economic and financial
analysis and evaluation). This gave SIDFRPERU staff the wherewithal to update
earlier studies and, mote important stll, formulate the first stage of the
project, limited to a macimum investmenlt of US$40 million.
3.3       Management services
3.3.1     Objective
To improve SIDERPERU's administrative organization and structure,
its business systems and procedures, and its operating and managerial
practices, thereby creating a more functional and efficient enterprise.
3.3.2     Description
The consulting firm of Booz Allen and Hamilton was retained to
provide assistance in this sphere, their first commission being to conduct a
diagnostic study of SIDERPERU's administrative organization and structure and
to formulate an action plan.
The plan detailed the actions needed in the various divisions of the
enterprise to overcome its organizational, procedural and information system
limitations. It also contained a ranked priority listing of these actions and
a timetable for their execution.
For advice on how to coordinate implementation of the
recommendations contained in the action plan, SIDERPERU, with Bank approval,
entered into a consulting services contract with Amaro Lanari Jr. Asesoria
Ltda. In fact, the specific commission given this firm was to advise the
General Manager directly on Executive Committee organizational questions and
the basis structure of the enterprise.
These various consulting services were provided during the second
half of 1982 and the first quarter of 1983, at a total cost of US$484,797:48.



- 15 -
3.3.4     Results
The following illustrate the impact on SIDERPERU of the
recommendations made in these studies:
-    as now organized, the enterprise shows some of   e structural
changes and basic functions recommended by the tcnsultants;
-    the terms of reference and bidding conditions used in selecting
consultants to advise on implementation of the action plan were
written by SIDERPERU itself, following Booz Allen and Hamilton's
recommendations.
With the Bank's approval, SIDERPERU issued an international call for
tenders, although, because of the change of government in Peru, no contract
was ever awarded.
4.0       Administrative Issues
Technical assistance activities frequently took longer to complete
than expected, mainly because of the Bank request that the SIDERPERU Board
acquaint itself- with them and reach its own decisions, a procedure which meant
that the SIDERPERU Directors needed to know what the Bank's opinions were.
Delays in execution were even longer when the Bank required the
Ministry of Economic Affairs or CONADE to take a decision or issue an opinion
connected with SIDERPERU or the technical assistance projects.
Finally, the internal procedures involved in obtaining government
agency approval of investment and technical assistance projects caused yet
other delays. Securing consent opinions from INP, MICTI, CONADE and MEF took
at least an additional 12 months.
5.0       Conclusions
5.1       On closing of this Loan Agreement, a total of US$1,360,814:48 had
been used, leaving a balance of US$3,6?9,815:52.
5.2       Proceeds of the Loan were employed as follows:
-    Review of the feasibility study
for the expansion program                US$308,964:00
-    Preparation of the feasibility study
for the rehabilitation project           US$566,423:00
-    Management consulting services           US$484,797:48
5.3       The objectives and goals specified in the technical assistarLce
contracts signed were accomplished in a manner satisfactory to SIDERPERU and
the World Bank.



- 16 -
5.4       As a direct result of them, it was possible to determine what needed
to be done to rehabilitate the SIDERPERU plant and to:
-    map out the first stage of a rehabilitation project involving
investment of US$40 million;
-    make preliminary engineering design studies and use them as the
foundation for the technical specifications required in the
procurement process.
In addition, SIDERPERU is now experienced in a methodology for
preparing feasibility studies that incorporates computerized economic and
financial appraisal programs.
5.5       The management consultants assicted in defining SIDERPERU's
organizational structure and basic functions and in drawing up terms of
reference and bidding conditions to govern the selection of and contract
negotiations with a consulting firm to handle implementation of the action
plan recommended by them.
5.6       Technical assistance activities took longer than expected owing to
the need to obtain the formal consent of both the SIDERPERU Board and the Bank.
In addition, the time taken in obtaining favorable opinions from
Peru's public sector agencies as a prerequisite to execution of the investment
and technical assistance projects delayed implementation even further.



- 17 -
ANNEX No. 1
LOAN AGREEMENT S-19 PE:  WORLD BANK/SIDERPERU
APPROVAL SIDERPERU CONTRACTS          At Board of Directors meeting No. 305 on
July 21, 1980                         July 21, 1980, presided over by Vice
Admiral Ricardo Zevallos N., Chairman, the
General Management and Finance Departments
were authorized to act in the name of
SIDERPERU in executing the relevant
contracts and other documentation.
GOVERNMENT APPROVAL OF CONTRACT       Via Presidential Decree No. 279-80 EF of
December 31, 1980                     December 31, 1980, the Government approved
Loan Agreement S-19 PE between the World
Bank and SIDERPERU.
CONSULTING COhTRACTS
DATE              CONSULTANTS            AMOUNT          PURPOSE
(US$)
April 4, 1981    Amaro Lanari Jr.   3,964:00              Selection of consultants
Asesoria Ltda                          to review feasibility
study on 1980-85
expansion program.
June 11, 1981    Tractionel/        305,000:00           Review of feasibility
Meca.aarbed                            study on 1980-85
expansion program.
March 31, 1982   Tractionel/        401,830:00           Production of feasibility
Mecanarbed                             study on rehabilitation
project.
Sept. 14, 1982   Booz Allen &       399,600:00           Management consulting
Hamilton                               services and production
of diagnostic study on
organization and
administrative structure
of SIDERPERU and
formulation of action
plan.
Dec. 30, 1982    Amaro Lanari Jr.  85,197:48              Implementation of action
Asesoria Ltda.                         plan and recommendations
on Executive Committee.



- 18 -
Feb. 17, 1983    Tractionel/        133,340:00           Study supplementing
Mecanarbed                             feasibility study on
rehabilitation project.
April 12, 1983   Edmund Mangan       31,253:00           Consulting services in
connection with
rehabilitation project
and drafting of bidding
conditions to govern
procurement of
consulting services on
training for maintenance
and operating personnel.
Total Cost                       1,360,184:48            Withheld (5%) on Amaro
Lanari Jr. contract.
Payable                               3,726:00
Not committed                    3,636,089:52
US$5,000,000:00
STATEMENT OF CONDITION                Total Cost     Available      Total Loan
Balance
1,363,910:40    3,636,089:52   5,000,000:00



- 19 -
ANNEX NO. 2
LOAN AGREEMENT S-19 PE: WORLD BANK/SIDERPERU
CHRONOLOGY OF MAJOR ACTIVITIES DECEMBER 1982-NOVEMBER 1984
Procurement Proceedings Cancelled   In December 1982, invitations were issued
December 82-June 83                   to bid on a management consulting contract
for the rehabilitation project. Of the
total of 14 firms invited to bid, eight
accepted and actually made offers.
SIDERPERU, in conjunction with ICSA,
decided to alter the rehabilitation
project to bring it into line with what
both the enterprise itself and the
Government were in fact in a position to
do and with the outlook projected for the
domestic steel market.
As originally designed, the project called
for a total fixed capital investment of
US$70 million.
COFIDE devised a plan to rectify the
serious economic and financial situation
in which SIDERPERU found itself.
In the circumstances, it was proposed that
rehabilitation be undertaken in three
stages, for a total fixed capital
investment of US$170 million.
These changes meant that the procurement
proceedings launched in December 1982 to
identify rehabilitation project
consultants were never carried through to
the end and no contract ever awarded.
World Rank Mission                    ICSA and JIDERPERU staff met with
February 20-24, 1984                  Bank representatives February 20-24, 1984
to review all aspects of the use of the
proceeds of the Technical Assistance Loan
and future work under the program to
rehabilitate SIDERPERU plant.
The following agreements were reached:
- To begin new procurement proceedings for
selection of management consultants for
the rehabilitation project. At least
the eight firms that had lodged offers
earlier were to be invited to take part
again.



- 20 -
- To use balance of Loan proceeds
(US$3,636,089:52) as indicated here:
. Management consulting services for
rehabilitationI project,
Stage I                 US$l,300,000:00
. Operating assistance and training
US$1,611,476:52
. Other studies           US$  724,613:00
TOTAL             US$3,636,089:52
At the same time, operat:ng assistance and
training needs were identified and study
content mapped out..
Production of Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation Project
Telex December 16, 1983               Receipt acknowledged of ICSA documents on
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        financial restructuring of SIDERPERU and
rehabilitation project.
Further analysis of rehabilitation project
requested so as to obtain sound basis for
decision.
Telex March 7, 1984                   Respording to request from Government of
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        Peru that it visit SIDERPERU, IBRD
proposes steps to be taken beforehand.
Information requested on SIDERPERU staff
review rehabilitation project as proposed
by ICSA/IDOM.
Telex of March 30, 1984               Comments on ICSA/IDOM rehabilitation
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        project and also recommendation that
updated feasibility study be conducted
according to ICSA/IDOM proposal by
SIDERPERU personnel who worked with
Tractionel/Mecanarbed. On completion of
study, a SIDERPERU/ICSA mission should
visit Bank for review of situation and
decision on future action.
Telex of April 5, 1984                Notice that feasibility study under way,
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        in hands of staff who worked with
Tractionel/Mecanarbed. Estimated
completion in six weeks.
Telex of April 11, 1984               Latest edition of World Steel Dynamics
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        requested.



- 21 -
Telex of April 12, 1984               Request for information to allow
IBRD/SIDERPERU                       preliminary economic and finlancial
appraisal of project.
Offer made to provide some suggestions and
hypotheses to assist feasibility study.
Telex of April 13, 1984              Remittal of information requested by
SIDERPERU/IBRD                       Bank.
Telex of April 17, 1984              Relay of suggestions and basic assumptions
IBRD/SIDERPERU                       for conduct of feasibility study.
Telex of May 8, 1984                 Receipt of suggestions and assumptions
SIDERPERU/IBRD                       acknowledged.  Feasibility study
completion date of May 19 given.
Telex of May 9, 1984                 Request that study be forwarded two weeks
IBRD/SIDERPERU                       prior to departure of Bank mission
scheduled for June.
Telex of May 21, 1984                Notice of dispatch of feasibility
SIDERPERU/IBRD                       study, completed May 19, to Bank.
Telex of June 8, 1984                 Proposal that SIDERPERU/ICSA mission begin
visit to Bank on June 25. Draft agenda:
review of feasibility study;
imDlementation of Government measures in
support of SIDERPERU.
SIDERPERU/ICSA Mission               On June 25, SIDERPERU/ICSA mission
(Mensrs. Antonio de la Puente, Neme
Mohanna and Antonio Martinez) arrives
Visit to Bank Headquarters at Bank to
discuss status of Technical Assistance
Project and proposed rehabilitation
project.
SIDERPERU's current situation and remedial
steps under way also discussed.
Bank noted it was studying question of its
participation in financing rehabilitation
project, participation dependent on
Government's macroeconomic objectives, to
be announced.
Agreement on objectives, scope and timing
of consulting assistance sought by
SIDERPERU re its operating methods and
practices and project management
capabilities:
- Preparation of terms
of reference               July 1-31
- Review and approval
of them by IBRD            July 1-31



- 22 -
- Call for tenders and
lodging of bids            Sept I-Oct 15
- Bid evaluation by
SIDERPERU                  Oct 15-Nov 15
- Review by IBRD
office, Lima               Nov 15-30
- Contract negotiations      Dec 1-31
- Consultants begin work    Jan 1, 1985
Also agreed there would be no need for
subsequent updating of feasibility study
once reviewed.
Procurement Proceedings: Consultants' Advice on Operating
and Project Management Methods and Practices
Telex of March 30, 1984               Proposal there be single contract
IBRD/ SIDERPERU                       with consultants to advise on management
of rehabilitation project and provide
technical assistance with operating
methods and practices.
Terms of reference to be prepared after
completion of rehabilitation project
feasibility study.
Telex of April 5, 1984                SIDERPERU agrees single contract
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        preferable in the two areas specified.
Telex                                 Notification of dates bidders' offers
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        lodged:
AUSTROPLAN                   June 13, 1984
DRAVO ENGINEERS              June 18, 1984
PENSA ER                     June 20, 1984
NIPPON STEEL                 July 10, 1984
FRASER GR                    Aug 21, 1984
Telex of July 26, 1984                Notice given that bidding conditions, terms
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        of reference, and preliminary engineering
designs re procurement of consultants'
advice on operating methods and practices
and project management capabilities to be
forwarded to Bank by date set in June
timetable.
Telex of August 9, 1984               Request for list of domestic and
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        foreign consulting firms to be invited to
bid on this consulting contract.
Advice given regarding bidding conditions
(responsibility and participation of
Peruvian firms, arrangements for payment,
system of bid evaluation).



- 23 -
Telex of August 20, 1984              Request for information on status of
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        procurement arrangements and list of
foreign and domestic consulting firms
invited to bid.
Telex of August 21, 1984              List given of the names of 14 foreign and
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        nine domestic firms selected by SIDERPERU
to take part in the procurement
proceedings.
Response to points raised in previous
telex regarding Statement of Bidding
Conditions.
Telex of August 24, 1984              Proposals made regarding criteria for
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        technical evaluation of bids and points
system for classifying them.
Bank asked to apply in time to allow
invitations to prospective bidders to be
issued by August 31, 1984, in accordance
with the timetable set up the previous
June.
Telexes of August 28 and 31,          Telexes coordinating and defining
1984                                  bid-evaluation technical criteria and
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        evaluation points systems.
Telex of August 29, 1984
STDERPERU/IBRD
Telex of August 27, 1984              Observations on number of consulting
IBRD/SIDERFERU                        firms prequalified by SIDERPERU.
Telex of August 29, 1984              Reply to preceding telex:
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        arrangements used in 1983 procurement
proceedings were being repeated.
IBRD opinion invited on prequalified firms.
Telex of August 31, 1984              Confirmed telephone conversation of same
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        date accepting eight as maximum number of
firms to be invited to bid on consulting
contract.
Telex of Septmeber 4, 1984            SIDERPERU remits list of the eight firms
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        to be invited to bid.
Telex of September 11, 1984           Proposal that U.S. Steel be invited to bid
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        and request that Bethlehem and Ensidesa be
advised they were invited to bid jointly
with Kaiser and Tractionel, respectively.
Telex of September 17, 1984           Response to preceding telex.  Noted that
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        Bank Guidelines were being followed:
equal treatment for all consulting firms.



- 24 -
SIDERPERU ignorant as to whether
Bethlehem/Kaiser and Ensidesa/Tractionel
partnerships still current.
Telex of September 28, 1984           Approval to consult by telex before
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        actual dispatch of invitations to bid to
the eight consulting firms listed in
SIDERPERU telex of September 4, 1984.
Telex of October 1, 1984              Advice that the eight prequalified firms
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        were consulted by telex.
Telex of October 2, 1984              Notice given of meeting in Santiago
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        de Chile between Messrs. M. Rowat and M.
Meunier of Bank and Messrs. Mohanna and
Martinez of SIDERPERU with regard to
participation of U.S. Steel.
No objections by SIDERPERU to U.S. Steel
participating; necessary approval
requested.
Telex of October 4, 1984              No objections from Bank to
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        invitation being made to U.S. Steel.
Telex of October 10, 1984             Notice given that invitations now sent to
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        the nine prequalified firms that had
responded affirmatively to prior telex
requesting indication of interest.
November 19, 1984 date set for bid opening.
Telex of November 1, 1984             Further to telephone call,
IBRD/SIDERPERU                        Bank confirms view that date set for bid
opening should be postponed.
Notice of Bank mission early 1985.
Gratification expressed at recovery and
achievements of SIDERPERU.
Telex of November 7, 1984             In view of Bank recommendation,
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        bid opening to be postponed to December 3,
1984, provided review of bid evaluation
results conducted by Bank in Lima at time
of mission.
Telex of Novebmer 13, 1984            In response to telephone call from Bank
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        this date, SIDERPERU lists firms still in
the running but requesting furLher
postponement and those that have withdrawn.
Telex of November 19, 1984            Notice that following Bank recommendation
SIDERPERU/IBRD                        bid opening date postponed again, to
December 21, 1984.



