Document of                      F111  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2856-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EMPRESA SIDERURGICA DEL PERU (SIDERPERU)
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR THE
SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 25, 1980
This dumt bhs a restricted distribution and miLy be sed by recipients only In the pefruance of
tbeir ocll duties. Its Contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborIatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
difference between domestic and international inflation.  The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in effect on May 31, 1980 were as follows:
CURRENCY UNIT =  Sol (SI.)
Calendar 1979       May 31, 1980
US$1          =       SI. 224.55           SI. 278.0
S/. 1         =       US$0.0045            US$ 0.0036
S/. 1,000    =        US$4-45              US$ 3.60
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DR               Direct reduction process for the production of sponge
iron used as a raw material in steelmaking
EAF              Electric Arc Furnace
ERP              Economic Recovery Program
SIDERPERU        Empresa Siderurgica del Peru
(State-owned Steel Company of Peru)
SLRN             Stelco-Lurgi-Republic-National
(a coal-based DR process)
SOFRESID         Societe Francaise d'Etudes Siderurgiques
(French Engineering Consultants)
tpy              Metric tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Empresa Siderurgica del Peru (SIDERPERU)
Guarantor:               Republic of Peru
Amount:                  US$5.0 million
Terms:                   Repayable in 10 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, at
8.25 percent per annum. The loan would be refinanced
by any future loan that the Bank might make for the
second stage of the SIDERPERU expansion program.
Project Description:    The objective of the technical assistance project
is to strengthen SIDERPERU's project execution and
plant operation capability to enable it to successfully
install and manage a two stage 400,000 tpy expansion
of the Chimbote steel mill.  The project would include
the following:
(i) assistance in project management and start-up for
the 200,000 tpy first stage of the expansion
program which is now getting underway;
(ii) assistance in the operation of existing plant
facilities and initial operation of the first
stage expansion facilities;
(iii) operational training for SIDERPERU personnel,
partly on-the-job and partly in a plant with
similar technology abroad; and
(iv) preparation of a feasibility study for the
200,000 tpy second stage of the expansion
program, including a technical and economic
review of the first stage and coal transpor-
tation and electric system studies.
The SIDERPERU expansion project will involve the
utilization of coal-based direct reduction technology.
SIDERPERU's five year experience in the operation
of a pilot plant, the testing done by bidders for
the direct reduction plant on the local iron ore and
coal to be used in the process and the technical
assistance SIDERPERU will receive under the project
are expected to minimize problems with the use of
this technology.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othetwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:          The estimated cost of the project, exclusive of
taxes, is as follows:
Local    Foreign    Total
-----(US$ millions)------
Project Management                      0.40       1.70      2.10
Operating Assistance                    0.15       0.80      0.95
Operational Training                    0.20       0.90       1.10
Studies                                 0.05       0.60      0.65
Sub-Total                             0.80       4.00      4.80
Physical Contingencies                  0.10       0.20      0.30
Price Contingencies                     0.10       0.80      0.90
Total                               1.00      5.00       6.00
Financing Plan:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
-----(US$ million)-------
Bank Loan                                 -         5.0      5.0
SIDERPERU                               1.0           -      1.0
1.0        5.0       6.0
Estimated Disbursements:                Bank FY   1981      1982      1983      1984
----(US$ millions)----
Annual                    1.2       1.9       1.6      0.3
Cumulative                1.2       3.1      4.7       5.0
Rate of Return:          Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:        None.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE EKPRESA SIDERURGICA DEL PERU (SIDERPERU)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR THE
SIDERPERU TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Empresa Siderurgica del Peru (SIDERPERU) for the equivalent of US$5.0
million to help finance the SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project. The
loan would have a term of 10 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with
interest at 8.25 percent per annum. In accordance with the normal procedure
for preinvestment loans, the loan would be refinanced under any later loan
that the Bank might make for the second stage of the SIDERPERU expansion
program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Long-Term Development Issues:
Peru" (Report No. 2204-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1979.  This part is based on the report's findings as well as those
of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Resource Endowment
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population where modern economic activity is concen-
trated; the mountain region (Sierra), with 44 percent of the country's popula-
tion, which encompasses the highlands above 2,000 meters; and the sparsely
populated, tropical rain forests east of the Andes (Selva). The rugged
topography limits trade between the three regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals,
particularly copper, iron, silver and zinc, located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa and phosphates on the northern Costa. Petroleum resources,
particularly in the jungle areas of the North and offshore, are believed to
be substantial but their full extent has not yet been ascertained. Another
major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal waters,
although its magnitude is subject to sharp gyrations. Agricultural land is
limited, and most of the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already
being farmed.
5.        As a result of three decades (1930-1960) of rapidly falling mortality
rates, population growth accelerated. In the early 1960's, birth rates started
a gradual fall, mainly caused by the urbanization process and by improved
education. But with declining death rates, population has continued to grow
at about 2.8 percent p.a. It is expected that population growth will only
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the Bayovar Phosphate
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project President's Report of June
9, 1980 (Report No. P-2845-PE).



- 2 -
slightly fall to about 2.6 percent p.a. over the next 20 years, unless an
effective demographic policy is adopted. Given the structure of Peru's
population, the labor force is expected to grow in excess of 3 percent per
year during the next 20 years.
6.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying approxi-
mately 80 percent of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although Peru's
energy resource base is relatively diverse with scope for expanding hydro and
coal based power generation, petroleum will provide the major part of Peru's
energy requirements throughout the rest of this century. After having been
dependent on imported crude oil for many years, domestic oil production
increased almost threefold between 1976 and 1979, enabling Peru to export oil
in substantial quantities for the first time since 1958. Despite this encour-
aging production trend, domestic consumption is likely to rebound after
several years of stagnation so that Peru may once again become a net importer
of petroleum in the mid-1980's unless new oil reserves are discovered.
Past Development Policies
7.        Since the military came to power in 1968, the Government has followed
a development strategy directed at achieving economic growth and at narrowing
the sharp differences in wealth and opportunities among people in different
income classes and geographical regions. The Government has tried to correct
interpersonal and interregional imbalances by expanding the role of the State
in the economy, changing the pattern of asset ownership, reducing foreign
ownership of national resources, orienting industry and agriculture toward
producing essential goods for the domestic market, stimulating the deconcentra-
tion of economic activity out of Lima, and reforming the educational system to
make it more responsive to local economic and social needs. Through national-
ization and creation of new enterprises, the State has taken direct control of
over 150 enterprises in key economic sectors, and its share in total capital
formation has risen from less than one-fourth in 1968-70 to over 40 percent in
1974-1979. By imposing complex legislation, the Government has also strictly
controlled the operations of the private sector.
8.        As a result of these actions, the pattern of asset ownership in
the economy has changed drastically. Through nationalization, the share
of foreign-owned assets fell sharply. A sweeping land reform redistri-
buted 43 percent of the country's best farmland to workers' cooperatives
benefitting some 25 percent of all rural families. Through other laws,
industrial workers were given shares in their employers' firms and, in the
mining sector, a share in profits. The Government has also given a strong
autarkic orientation to its agricultural and industrial sector policies
and strengthened the incentives for industries outside of Lima.
9.        The Government's programs have benefitted large numbers of Peruvians,
but hardly reached the poorest which continue to live in abject poverty. It
is estimated, for example, that about three quarters of rural families, mostly
"minifundistas" (those farming less than 2 ha) and the landless seasonal
workers, have not been reached by social programs. The Government imposed
controls on prices of a number of domestically produced goods and heavily
subsidized imported petroleum and foodstuffs. Most of the subsidized products,



-3-
however, were more important in the consumption basket of high and middle-
income Peruvians than in that of the poorest groups. Moreover, artificially
low prices for some products--such as mutton and cereals--actually hurt the
poor who produced these items, and affected production negatively.
10.       In the final account, one of the most significant achievements
of the Government was the promotion of the cultural and political integration
of the country. Owing in great part to the land reform, an important segment
of the rural population has become better organized and is able to communicate
its priorities in a more forceful and articulate way. Unfortunately, although
many of the policies and structural changes carried out since 1968 were meant
to achieve rapid growth and more equality, the cost of these measures proved
to be excessive and their implementation inefficient.
The Economic Crisis
11.       For ten years, 1968-77, the military Government followed expan-
sionary fiscal and credit policies. A rapid increase in expenditures (includ-
ing large defense outlays) was not matched by a parallel increase in revenues.
Pricing, interest rate, and foreign exchange policies encouraged consumption
and discouraged savings, exports and, sometimes, overall production. As a
result, aggregate demand considerably exceeded aggregate supply. Excess
demand, in turn, led to strong inflationary pressures and widening external
gaps, with a loss of international reserves and a massive build-up of external
debt.
12.       The problems were exacerbated by circumstances beyond the control
of the authorities. Anchovies, the fishing industry's principal resource,
virtually disappeared as the annual catch dropped from around ten million
tons in 1968-71 to an average of 2.3 million tons in 1975-78. Furthermore,
Peru's terms of trade worsened sharply between 1974 and 1978. Export prices,
particularly for copper and sugar (which together accounted for almost one-
fourth of merchandise exports), fell from their high 1974 levels at a time
when import prices soared. Petroleum reserves, which in the early 1970's
were predicted to lead to a quick expansion in export earnings, have taken
much longer to come on line.
13.       Public sector savings dropped steadily in relation to GDP from
4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977. Major causes
were the erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives, loopholes
in the tax system, weak enforcement, rises in the budgetary cost of subsidies
for foodstuffs and petroleum products, and sharp increases in defense outlays.
At the same time, public investment expanded rapidly and was increasingly
concentrated on capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and
little immediate contribution to the growth of output or employment.
14.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year in 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially negative in real
terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating capital flight. Moreover,
the exchange rate remained practically constant between 1968 and 1975, thus
contributing to the overall disequilibrium. National savings fell dramatically
from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent in 1977, when they financed only



about one-half of investment. Following a period of rapid expansion in
1968-74, during which GDP grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth
rate dropped progressively and became negative in 1977 and 1978.
15.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of payments.
The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77,
equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt. Peru's total private and public external
debt-including short-term indebtedness--stood at almost US$8.3 billion by
year-end 1977, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP and four times exports of goods
and non-factor services. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly short
maturities with three fourths of the public sector's long-term debt--which is
estimated to have totaled US$6.4 billion--scheduled to be repaid over the
1978-82 period.
16.       Beginning in 1975, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with the mounting economic crisis. By mid-1978 the economic crisis had
reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation approaching
100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it increasingly diffi-
cult to open letters of credit for new imports and the banking system's net
international reserves had dropped to a negative level of US$800 million.
Financial instability had reached the point where practically all economic
activities were adversely affected. The public sector was fast approaching
the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its external debt.
Peru was no longer creditworthy.
Stabilization Measures
17.       A new economic team was named in May 1978.  Since then, the Govern-
ment has adopted a number of important measures aimed at strengthening public
finances, stimulating exports and stemming the loss of international reserves.
By means of a crawling peg, the sol was devalued from S/. 130 per U.S. dollar
in May 1978 to about S/. 266 at the end of March 1980. Most subsidies were
eliminated, thus closing an important drain on public savings. In addition, a
number of tax measures were adopted and Government expenditures restrained.
Interest rates on bank loans were raised from 16 to 31.5 percent per year.
Peru reached agreement with foreign commercial banks to reschedule US$185
million of principal payments due in the second half of 1978 until January
1979. The Government also negotiated a stand-by arrangement with the IMF for
SDR 184 million. In July 1979, this stand-by was replaced by a new one
for SDR 285 million, in support of the same financial program. Peru's debt
outstanding to the IMF as of December 31, 1979 amounted to SDR 414 million.
18.       The Government's financial stabilization program, supported by the
stand-by, has resulted in a dramatic improvement in public sector finances in
1979. Public sector current account savings rose from - 0.7 percent of
GDP in 1978 to about 3.6 percent of GDP in 1979 and the overall deficit was
reduced from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1978 to 2.9 percent in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a reduction in excessive
civil service employment. The elimination of subsidies on food and petroleum



- 5 -
products, initiated in mid-1978, also contributed to the control of current
expenditures. On the revenue side, several measures--including a 10 percent
import surcharge, a higher tax on traditional exports and an increased tax on
interest charged on bank loans--helped to achieve the revenue target. In
spite of good fiscal performance, however, inflationary pressures remain
strong, with consumer price increases of 67 percent in 1979 and over 50 per-
cent (on an annual basis) during the first quarter of 1980.
Debt Restructuring
19.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce substantially the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980, postponing
repayment to the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled
the equivalent of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80.
These amounts are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of
grace. In November, at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to
reschedule 90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to
governments and guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263
million). These amounts are to be repaid over a period of eight years, in-
cluding three years of grace. The Paris Club creditors also agreed to re-
schedule 90 percent of the principal payments due in 1979 and 1980 on private
sector debt guaranteed or insured in the creditor countries (about US$30
million in each year). In addition, Peru has negotiated smaller amounts of
debt relief with non-OECD countries. At the end of 1979, in view of the
improved balance-of-payments situation (para. 24), the Government decided to
forego the Paris Club debt rescheduling option for 1980.
20.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru repaid
in 1979 the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para 17 above).
The agreement gave the Government the option of refinancing up to 90 percent
of the maturities due in 1979 and 1980. The Government, however, decided
earlier this year not to take advantage of the 1979 maturities, thus obtaining
slightly better conditions for outstanding debts. It is likely that the
option to refinance 90 percent of the 1980 maturities will be taken.
Social Situation
21.       The economic crisis has been reflected in two consecutive years of
negative growth. Total Gross Domestic Income fell by 0.6 percent in 1977 and
a further 4.1 percent in 1978. In this two-year period GDP per capita dropped
by over 8 percent. Nearly one half of Peru's labor force is believed to be
unemployed or underemployed, i.e., earning less than the minimum wage or
working less than 35 hours a week and wishing to work more. According to
government estimates, the purchasing power of an average salary had fallen
40 percent by 1978 compared to 1970 and that of an average wage by over
16 percent. In these circumstances, the social situation has been unavoidably
tense, and several general strikes took place during the past year.
22.       In July, 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected assembly. Elections were held in May 1980,
and the transfer of authority to the government of President-elect Fernando
Belaunde is scheduled to take place on July 28, 1980. While it is too early
to assess future government policies it is most likely that the Belaunde



- 6 -
Government -- in line with campaign pledges -- will give high priority to
social and employment problems, particularly through housing and labor-
intensive small-scale infrastructure programs.
The Economic Recovery Program
23.       With the financial stabilization program and the debt restructuring,
the Government has brought the fiscal and external gaps under control. These
efforts, however, have not yet helped much in overcoming the deep economic
recession. To this end the Government conceived an Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) which would reverse the decline in GDP and lay a basis for a financially
sound economic recovery. The ERP includes, in addition to the above-mentioned
stabilization actions, measures to open up the economy, stimulate industrial
sector efficiency, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system
by broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource
allocation in the private and public sectors. In this connection, the Govern-
ment formulated a Public Sector Investment Program that aims at redirecting
public investment towards projects of clear economic priority and positive
effect on production and employment. In support of the ERP, the Bank approved
a US$115 million program loan in May, 1979. Progress in carrying out the ERP,
which is closely monitored by the Bank and periodically discussed with the
Authorities, is generally satisfactory with performance in some critical
areas--e.g., export promotion--actually exceeding expectations.
24.       The Government's program led to a strong balance-of-payments perfor-
mance in 1979, which is essential for economic recovery, and to restore net
international reserves. This was achieved by maintaining an export-oriented
foreign exchange policy, realistic interest rates, and the promotion of
non-traditional exports; but it is also the result of low, recession prone
imports. In addition, Peru benefitted from substantial price increases for
silver, copper, petroleum, and other commodities. The Government also intends
to improve foreign debt management by, inter alia, making greater use of
assistance from official bilateral and international sources. The short-term
debt, already sharply reduced from US$1.8 billion at year-end 1978 to US$1.1
billion at year-end 1979, is expected to be further reduced as the gradually
improving economic situation permits new trade-related credit lines to be
opened. The trade balance is expected to be strengthened by favorable world
prices for minerals, and by the availability of a petroleum surplus for export
amounting to some US$950 million per year over the next few years. Even
though about one third of the projected gross petroleum exports would leave
the country as profit remittances, this still implies a major improvement
over recent years, when Peru was spending in excess of US$200 million per
year on fuel imports.
25.       Based on assumptions that are cautiously optimistic, the country is
expected to show a strong balance-of-payments performance through the mid-
eighties, with current account surpluses and a build up of foreign exchange
reserves in spite of heavy debt repayment obligations. The balance-of-payments
situation may, however, deteriorate in the second half of the eighties (or
even earlier), when the exportable surplus of oil is expected to decline. This
will eventually result in increasing current account deficits, particularly
if imports exceed the level now expected as a result of the recently started
import liberalization process. Against this background and given Peru's large
overhang of external indebtedness, there is a continuing need for official
development assistance. Considering the expected medium-term balance-of-
payments performance and assuming that the authorities continue to carry out
the ERP and to maintain prudent financial policies, Peru is creditworthy for
Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU 1/
26.       In addition to the US$7.5 million Bayovar Engineering and Technical
Assistance Loan which the Executive Directors are expected to consider in June,
the Bank has approved 38 loans to Peru for a total amount of US$779.3 million,
net of cancellations. About 31 percent of the Bank's lending to Peru has been
for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 23 percent for agriculture, 15
percent for the US$115 million, May 1979 Program Loan, 15 percent for the
energy sector, 10 percent for mining and industry and about 6 percent for
education and urban development.
27.       Of the US$332.8 million undisbursed as of April 30, 1980, over
50 percent is attributable to the five project loans made in the 1976-77
period. The slow start-up of these projects--only two of which were "repeater"
operations--as well as the slow progress of previous operations was due, in
large part, to weak project execution capacity and to a shortage of counterpart
funds that worsened as the economic situation deteriorated during this period.
As a result, disbursements have averaged about US$25 million per year over the
past few years (Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
April 30, 1980, and notes on the execution of on-going projects). In an
effort to improve this situation: (i) the Bank opened a resident mission in
Peru; (ii) the Executive Directors approved modifications in the Education
and the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects (see Annex II for further details);
(iii) adequate counterpart funds were provided by the Government for 1979 and
1980; and (iv) the Government set up a special commission to monitor loan
execution and resolve administrative problems. With these actions, the pace
of disbursement is now increasing; IJS$32.2 million has been disbursed on
project loans in the first nine months of FY 1980.
28.       Program Loan disbursement started slowly because of the unforeseen
increase in foreign exchange availability in Peru as a result of booming
exports and continued depressed import levels, as well as substantial debt
rescheduling. In order to accelerate disbursements, the list of eligible
imports was expanded to include additional high priority industrial inputs.
As of May 31, 1980, US$109.6 million of the loan had been disbursed.
29.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in (i) the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and
foster development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the consolidation of structural and institutional changes,
particularly land and education reforms; (iv) the strengthening through
technical assistance loans and regular operations of local capacity to prepare,
implement and operate projects effectively; and (v) improving living conditions
for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated on
infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More recently, the
Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields -- mining,
agriculture and industry -- to aid Peru in surmounting its balance of payments
problems. Lending for social projects has also grown.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the Bayovar Phosphate
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project President's Report of June
9, 1980 (Report No. P-2845-PE).



- 8 -
30.       Aside from the Bayovar loan mentioned above, the next operations that
would be ready for the Executive Directors' consideration include a regional
airports project, a mining operation, a second industrial credit loan and a
highway maintenance project. This program would be reviewed with the new
Government to assure its agreement.
31.       It is estimated that Bank loans constituted about 4.4 percent of
Peru's total public external debt outstanding and disbursed, at the end of
1979, and absorbed about 2.7 percent of the country's external debt service in
1979. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral aid
by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign debt by
1985 could reach about 15 percent and its share of debt-service would be
around 8 percent.
32.       IFC commitments to date have been US$29.7 million (including US$15
million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone Copper Mining
Project) of which US$17.2 million is held by the Corporation. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of April 30, 1980 is presented in Annex II.
33.       The other principal official agencies lending to Peru -- IDB and
USAID -- are expected to continue giving special attention to agriculture with
IDB emphasizing agricultural, industrial and mining credit, roads and small
scale irrigation and USAID stressing rural development. Total loan commitments
as of December 31, 1979 by IDB and USAID were US$646.0 million and US$275.1
million, respectively, and their shares of debt service as of end-1979 were
both estimated at 0.6 percent.
PART III - INDUSTRY AND THE STEEL SUBSECTOR
A.   Industry
34.       The industrial sector in Peru (manufacturing and mining, excluding
petroleum) accounted for 32 percent of GDP in 1978 and employed 14 percent of
the labor force. Manufacturing is the largest component of the industrial
sector, responsible for about 80 and 90 percent, respectively, of its contribu-
tion to GDP and employment. Mining, however, is critical to Peru's economic
development because it generates 40-50 percent of Peru's foreign exchange
earnings and makes a significant fiscal contribution through exports taxes.
35.       Until recently, the Government followed a policy of import sub-
stitution and high tariff protection for development of the manufacturing
sector. As a result, manufacturing absorbed a substantial amount of for-
eign exchange, while its exports were insignificant. In 1976, imported
industrial inputs came to about US$750 million, representing over a third
of merchandise imports and 24 percent of industrial value added. During the
1971-1976 period, manufactured exports averaged only 6 percent of total
merchandise exports.
36.       This import substitution policy produced an inward oriented indus-
trial sector with little interest and ability to compete in world markets.
At the same time, however, the manufacturing sector in Peru diversified



- 9 -
substantially. The share of traditional consumer goods industries now
accounts for only about 40 percent of total manufacturing output, while
intermediate goods industries have grown in importance. The two largest
such industries, chemicals and basic metals, now represent 17 and 11 percent
of manufacturing output, respectively. The technical assistance loan proposed
in this report would assist the preparation and execution of an important
expansion of Peru's steel industry.
37.       There has been growing recognition in recent years of the ineffi-
ciency of the domestic manufacturing industry, its vulnerability to the
country's recurrent foreign exchange difficulties as a result of dependence on
imported inputs and its limited contribution to economic development because
of its high net absorption of foreign exchange. The problems of the industrial
sector became particularly evident during the economic crisis of the past few
years. When Peru's economic activity began to slow down in 1975, industrial
growth dropped from an average growth rate of 7 percent per annum during
1960-75 to to 4.2 percent in 1976. As the economic crisis deepened in 1977
and 1978, physical industrial production decreased by 3.9 and 2.4 percent,
respectively. At the same time, the highly protected local market allowed
oligopolistic industries to raise prices indiscriminately, thus fueling the
high inflation of recent years.
38.       The overall policy framework towards manufacturing began to change
in mid-1976, with the adoption of a more realistic foreign exchange policy.
In addition, a very generous set of export incentives was established in
mid-1976 and strengthened in late 1978. These actions, together with a
substantial reduction in domestic demand, generated an unprecedented growth in
non-traditional (mainly manufactured) exports. They include textiles, processed
fish for human consumption and fishing boats. From a low of US$133 million
in 1976 (10 percent of merchandise exports), non-traditional exports increased
to almost US$680 million in 1979. They grew to about 20 percent of merchan-
dise exports that year--not as great an increase as in the overall growth
of non-traditional exports because of the increases in petroleum and metal
exports in 1979.
39.       The other significant policy change designed to improve industrial
efficiency, the trade liberalization element of the ERP (see para. 23),
has proceeded generally according to schedule. In particular, non-tariff
protection to industry through import prohibitions--the main feature of
Peru's industrial policy until 1978--has been dismantled to a large extent
and the process is expected to be completed by mid-1980. A new tariff
structure was approved and has been in operation since last December, most
tariff exemptions and exonerations have been eliminated and the system of
export promotion has been improved. Nevertheless, the trade liberalization
program is far from complete. Considerable efforts will have to be made in
the coming years to achieve the full transformation of Peru's industrial
structure.
B.   The Steel Industry
40.       Background.  The beginnings of Peruvian iron and steelmaking can be
traced back to the Incas. Peru's first modern steel mill was constructed
near Chimbote on the Peruvian coast about 420 km north of Lima and began
operations in 1956 under joint public/private ownership based on the use of
the Marcona iron ore deposits located 480 km south of Lima. Chimbote was



- 10 -
selected for its deep water port facilities and the hydroelectric potential of
the near-by Santa River. In addition to Chimbote, there are two small privately
owned rolling mills with a total production capacity of about 74,000 tpy, mostly
of steel bars, and several foundries which produce about 50,000 tpy of forgings
and castings. One of the private mills is now planning a 100,000 tpy steel-
making plant, which would go into operation in 1984.
41.       SIDERPERU.  Under the General Industries Law of 1970, the State was
given the exclusive right to ownership of "basic" industries, including steel
production. This did not affect the small private mills, but as the country's
major steel producer the Chimbote steel mill was transferred in 1970 to the
newly created, state-owned Empresa Siderurgica del Peru (SIDERPERU), which
purchased the interests of the previous private shareholders in Chimbote.
42.       SIDERPERU's Chimbote mill is the only integrated steel plant in
Peru. It has an annual production capacity of about 500,000 tons of crude
steel, which represents 90 percent of Peru's steelmaking capacity. The plant,
however, is unbalanced, i.e., given the yield factor between crude and
finished steel, crude steel capacity would have to be increased to 920,000 tpy
to fully utilize Chimbote's 700,000 tpy rolling and finishing capacity.
Because of the imbalance, SIDERPERU has had to rely partly on imported slabs
and billets to feed its rolling mills. SIDERPERU produces both flat products --
hot and cold-rolled coil and sheet, galvanized sheet, tinplate -- and non-flat
products -- wire rod and and bars. About two-thirds of Chimbote's steel
output is produced by the blast furnace/basic oxygen furnace process using
as inputs iron ore pellets from the Marcona mines and imported coke. The
balance is produced by electric arc furnaces (EAFs) which process mostly
imported steel scrap.
43.       Deficiencies in the original design of the Chimbote plant, the
small scale of many plant units and Government price controls have caused
serious operational and financial difficulties over the years. During the
first half of the 1970's, a US$130 million program was carried out, which
reduced the imbalance between steelmaking and rolling capacity and improved
the relationship between plant units. This program, together with the easing
of Government price controls and a capital increase of US$80 million in 1979,
greatly improved SIDERPERU's financial position. After losses in the mid-1960's
and early 1970's, SIDERPERU has shown a profit over the past few years. Its
cash generation is presently projected at US$100 million in the 1981-84 period.
It is now in a healthy financial position with a long-term debt/equity ratio of
13/87 and a current ratio of 1.6 at the end of 1979. The intended expansion
program is expected to further strengthen SIDERPERU.
44.       Prices of domestically produced steel products are now set at a level
close to landed import prices before duties. For rebars (used primarily for
housing and other construction), which constitute about half of SIDERPERU's
output, Peruvian prices are somewhat below landed import prices, while domestic
prices for other products are roughly 10-20% higher. These prices fully cover
SIDERPERU's costs.
45.       With the high cost of imported scrap and metallurgical coke and the
uncertainty of scrap supply because of periodic shortages on the world market,
SIDERPERU has been exploring steelmaking methods which utilize indigenous raw



materials. In this effort, SIDERPERU has been operating an experimental kiln
since 1975 to test the use of the SLRN coal-based direct reduction (DR)
technology owned by Lurgi of Germany. This process was developed in the
1960's by Stelco (Canada), Lurgi (Germany), Republic Steel (USA) and National
Lead (USA). It permits the use of anthracite coal located close to
Chimbote to produce sponge-iron from Marcona iron ore pellets. This sponge
iron can be substituted for steel scrap in EAF steel production. The process
thus provides an alternative and less expensive route to steelmaking for
countries that lack coking coal and steel scrap.
46.       SIDERPERU's experimental kiln has so far produced 7,000 tons of
sponge iron which has been charged to the existing EAFs for the production
of steel. Based on this pilot operation, local anthracite coal and iron ore
have been determined to be suitable for the production of sponge iron by the
coal-based DR process.
47.       Steel Demand.  Despite having one of the lowest per capita levels
of steel consumption in South America, Peru's domestic steel production has
never been able to satisfy demand. In recent years the country has been
importing about 30 percent of its steel requirements. As a result of Peru's
economic growth and large investments in the early 1970s, steel consumption in
1975 reached 624,000 tons (all demand and consumption figures given are in raw
steel terms and exclude seamless pipes, rails, forgings/castings and special
steels for which demand is highly variable). As a result of the economic
recession after 1975, steel consumption dropped sharply to 420,000 tons in
1978, the latest figure available. With economic recovery, the 1975 level of
steel consumption could be exceeded by 1981. Thereafter, SIDERPERU expects
consumption to grow at a rate of about 6 percent through 1986, and 8 percent
afterward. These growth rates must be confirmed in the feasibility study to
be financed under the proposed loan but they are reasonable in light of the
current low level of steel consumption in Peru and projected GDP growth rates
of 5-6 percent in the 1980's. With the initial production from the SIDERPERU
first stage expansion described below, 1984 domestic steel production would
total about 630,000 tons compared to projected consumption of 777,000 tons.
By 1990, production is expected to grow to 1.0 million tons compared to a
consumption estimate of 1.2 million tons.
48.       SIDERPERU Expansion.  In order to help meet this growth in demand
and to eliminate its remaining Chimbote plant imbalances, SIDERPERU has
recently begun implementing a balancing and expansion program that takes
advantage of DR technology. The US$22 million initial phase of this program,
which has now been completed, includes a plant-wide elimination of bottlenecks
and installation of a DR plant consisting of three medium-size SLRN kilns.
These kilns are now in the start-up phase and at full production are designed
to have a combined capacity of 100,000 tpy of sponge iron, which will replace
imported scrap. The operation of these kilns will enable SIDERPERU to obtain
experience with coal-based DR on an industrial scale. Although new steelmaking
facilities were not added, the initial phase is expected to increase SIDERPERU's
steel production capacity from 500,000 tpy to 520,000 tpy, by permitting more
efficient use of its existing EAFs.



- 12 -
49.       This phase will be followed by an increase in raw steelmaking
capacity of 400,000 tpy in two stages of 200,000 tpy each. Stage I is now
being initiated for completion in 1984. Plans are for Stage II to be imple-
mented in the 1983-1987 period. The major equipment components of each stage
would include a DR plant with 200,000 tpy capacity, an 80 ton EAF, a 1,250 mm
wide continuous slab caster and a 50 MW coal-fired power plant. In addition,
Stage I would include a continuous billet caster for the existing steelmaking
plant and Stage II would include a coal transport system.
50.       Excluding working capital, financing charges, utility connections
and pre-operating expenses, Stage I is estimated to cost US$185 million in 1980
prices and Stage II US$135 million. Since it is an expansion, this averages a
little over US$800 per ton of annual capacity, which is low in comparison with
greenfield steel projects whose costs per ton are now at least US$1,000-1,200.
51.       Procurement activities for Stage I are now being completed.  The
Indo/German consulting firm Dastur Engineering helped design this stage and
the French consulting firm SOFRESID, acting on behalf of SIDERPERU, called for
bids on the principal Stage I facilities. Offers were requested from a large
number of equipment fabricators in major supplying countries and awards
were made to the lowest evaluated bidders on the basis of reasonable economic
and technical criteria. All bids are on a turnkey basis and include financing,
including interest during construction. Pre-operating expenses and additional
working capital requirements, as well as the local cost component of the
technical assistance project presented herein would be financed from SIDERPERU's
cash generation. The proposed Bank technical assistance loan would finance
the feasibility study for Stage II.
52.       Although the Bank has not appraised the SIDERPERU expansion program
in depth, a review of its technical, commercial and economic aspects indicates
that it is well-conceived and economically attractive. Peru has the iron ore
and coal resources to justify expansion of its steel industry to meet domestic
demand. Such demand exceeds production capacity and is expected to continue
to do so even after completion of the above-described expansion program.
Peruvian raw materials are well-adapted to the coal-based direct reduction
process and this has been tested to the point where bidders for the DR package
are prepared to offer normal industry guarantees for the performance of the
plants. The project appears to be economically justified. With inexpensive
domestic inputs, particularly coal (which will also reduce the cost of power
generation for the project), sponge iron production will be low in cost
(US$110/ton), compared with the cost of imported scrap (US$160/ton, c.i.f.).
The use of direct reduction allows for an economically efficient project
scale to meet the needs of the relatively small domestic market.
53.       SIDERPERU has been financially successful in recent years but still
requires strengthening in a number of areas. A UNDP program has provided
some technical assistance to SIDERPERU in improving its financial and opera-
tional management; however, further assistance is necessary in such operational
areas as maintenance and production planning. Also, SIDERPERU has little
experience in project implementation and needs strong support to carry out
its expansion program. The technical assistance project would provide SIDERPERU
with this support.



- 13 -
Previous Bank Activities in Industry and the Steel Subsector
54.       Aside from a US$2.5 million loan (Ln. 116-PE of 1955) for develop-
ment of a cement plant, which was successfully completed, the Bank's only
industrial sector project in Peru was a US$35 million DFC I operation.
After a slow start as a result of the domestic recession, commitments under
this project have picked up recently and the credit line is over 70 percent
committed. Full commitment is expected by December 1980. The President's
Report on the proposed US$7.5 million Bayovar Engineering and Technical
Assistance Loan for a phosphate fertilizer project has been distributed
for Board consideration.
55.       While the proposed Bank loan would be the first to the iron and steel
subsector in Peru, the Bank's dialogue with the Peruvian steel industry dates
back to the early 1960's when a mission reviewed the technical assistance
requirements of the Chimbote steel plant. More recently, assistance is being
provided to SIDERPERU through a cost sharing arrangement with the UNDP utilizing
technical assistance funds from the 1979 Program Loan (Ln. 1693-PE of 1979)
for two consultants who are assisting in the preparation of SIDERPERU's
expansion program. Also, in 1979 SIDERPERU received a US$700,000 subloan
under the DFC I project to help finance the three medium-size SLRN kilns
mentioned in para 48.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
56.       In May 1979, the Government requested Bank technical assistance for
the execution of the SIDERPERU expansion program. The first Bank mission
visited Peru in July 1979.
57.       The technical assistance project was appraised in April 1980. There
is no separate appraisal report for the project. Supplementary data are
contained in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on June 13, 1980
and the Peruvian delegation was headed by Mr. Rene Calderon, Technical Director
of SIDERPERU.
Project Objectives and Description
58.       The objectives of the technical assistance project are to strengthen
SIDERPERU's project execution and plant operation capability to enable it to
successfully install and manage its expanded facilities. The project would
include the following:
(i) 230 man-months of consulting services to assist in project manage-
ment for the installation and start-up of the 200,000 tpy Stage I
expansion program;
(ii) 100 man-months of consulting services to provide assistance
in the operation of existing plant facilities and initial operation
of the Stage I facilities;



- 14 -
(iii) assistance from a steel company which uses coal-based DR technology
to provide training for SIDERPERU personnel both on-the-job and in
its plant abroad and 20 man-months of consulting services to
establish a training program for SIDERPERU; and
(iv) 60 man-months of consulting services to prepare a feasibility study
for Stage II of the expansion program, including a technical and
economic review of the Stage I expansion, and coal transportation and
electric system studies.
59.       Project Management Services.  This component, which represents about
44 percent of total project costs, would be carried out by a consulting firm
and would include the provision of the services of a project manager.  The
project manager would lead an integrated team drawn from the staff of SIDERPERU
and the selected consulting firm. He would be responsible for carrying out
Stage I of the expansion program, which will begin shortly, including such
aspects as overall coordination, control and direction of the works, scheduling,
cost control, management information systems, site and erection coordination,
and the provision of start-up assistance. He would report directly to the
General Manager of SIDERPERU. The project manager would be authorized to act
on behalf of SIDERPERU on project related matters, including all dealings with
contractors and suppliers.
60.       Operating Assistance.  Under this component, consulting services
would be provided to strengthen SIDERPERU's operating practices, including
yield and quality standards, maintenance procedures, production planning
and use of information systems. This would account for 20 percent of total
project costs and would not only help SIDERPERU operate Stage I successfully,
but would also enhance the performance of present facilities. Although
SIDERPERU has gained some experience in coal-based DR from the operation of
its pilot plant and will benefit from additional experience as its three new
medium-sized kilns go into operation, assistance will be necessary for the
start-up and initial operation of the larger Stage I kilns. This assistance
would be provided by an experienced operating steel company familiar with
coal-based DR technology.
61.       Operational Training.  This component accounts for 23 percent of
total project costs and would include: (i) local on-the-job training for
SIDERPERU staff; (ii) training of about 50 local staff for 3-6 months in
coal-based DR operation abroad; and (iii) establishment of a training program
in SIDERPERU. The first and second elements would be provided by the steel
company selected to give operating assistance. For the third element, the
company would contract a training advisor to assist in developing and insti-
tuting a continuing training program for SIDERPERU staff.
62.       Studies.  This component, representing 13 percent of total cost,
would finance a feasibility study for the 200,000 tpy Stage II expansion
program, including a review of the Stage I expansion. The principal aim of
the Stage I review would be to provide the information necessary for the
design and economic evaluation of Stage II. It might also result in the



- 15 -
identification of possible design modifications that might improve the effi-
ciency of Stage I.  In addition to project design, the Stage II feasibility
study would include a market study, estimates of capital and operating costs
and a financial and economic evaluation.
63.       SIDERPERU will require increased supplies of anthracite coal start-
ing about 1984/85.  Until then it has large stocks of residual coke fines
(powder), which have accumulated over the years and can supplement existing
coal supplies for use in the DR process. A study would be carried out to
identify the most appropriate means of transporting coal, which would come
from the Santa area anthracite mines about 100 km from Chimbote. One solution
under consideration is a coal slurry pipeline. In addition, SIDERPERU would
carry out a study of its electric generation and distribution system in order
to determine how it should be adapted to the needs of the Expansion Program.
Project Execution
64.       The technical assistance project would be executed by SIDERPERU and
would take about three and one-half years to complete. The qualifications,
terms of reference and conditions of employment of all consultants would have
to be acceptable to the Bank and SIDERPERU would advise the Bank of the
criteria to be used in the selection of consultants (Section 3.02(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Consultants for the project management and studies
components of the project would be appointed by September 30, 1980 and those
for the operational assistance and training components would be appointed by
December 31, 1980 (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). SIDERPERU
and the Government have agreed that after completion of the feasibility study
and before a decision is taken on whether to go ahead with Stage II, the Bank
would be afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views thereon (Sections
3.02(e)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank would have the right to
suspend disbursements in the event that, for whatever reason, SIDERPERU ceases
carrying out the Stage I expansion (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement
65.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$6.0 million net of
taxes, of which US$5.0 million are foreign costs to be financed by the proposed
loan. The cost estimate is based on mid-1980 prices. Physical contingencies
of five percent have been added for all items, except studies. Price contingen-
cies were based on an annual estimated worldwide inflation rate of 10 percent.
SIDERPERU would finance the estimated US$1.0 million local costs of the
project from internal cash generation. About 385 man-months of foreign
engineering and technical and other consultancy services would be required.
The estimated cost per man-month would be about US$10,000 (including overheads
and subsistence allowances). The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against
100 percent of foreign expenditures.



- 16 -
Benefits and Risks
66.       Although Peru has sizeable iron ore and coal reserves, domestic demand
for steel has been substantially in excess of production capacity. The size
of the local market, however, does not permit the construction of additional
conventional steelmaking facilities large enough to obtain satisfactory
economies of scale. SIDERPERU's proposed expansion program, based on the
direct reduction of iron ore to sponge iron with the use of local non-coking
coal, will provide additional steel making capacity economically.
67.       The SIDERPERU steel expansion program would replace 500,000 tpy of
imported scrap with a current total cost of US$80 million per year with locally
produced sponge iron.  The country would thus have a more reliable source of
steelmaking raw materials than imported scrap steel, whose supply has been
restricted at times. The expansion program would at the same time help develop
a local resource (anthracite coal) for which there would otherwise be little
use. Given the inexpensive coal supply, the low cost of the sponge iron
that would be produced compared to the cost of imported steel scrap and
the existence of excess rolling and finishing capacity that would be utilized
with the increase in steelmaking, the SIDERPERU expansion appears to be
economically justified. Overall, SIDERPERU's expansion would provide Peru
with steel products at competitive prices and on a reliable basis.
68.       A primary reason for Bank involvement in this project is SIDERPERU's
lack of project management experience and capability. Though SIDERPERU has
highly qualified engineers in such areas as process development, it does
not--as an operating company--have sufficient manpower and experience in
construction supervision, project implementation and scheduling and cost
control. Without additional support, SIDERPERU is likely to encounter major
delays, cost overruns and operational difficulties in implementing its expan-
sion program. The selection of an experienced project management team under
the proposed Bank project would help to minimize this potential risk. The
technical assistance project would thus contribute to strengthening SIDERPERU
in terms of management, operation and project implementation. This responds
to the Government's objective of trying to ensure that major public investment
projects, such as the SIDERPERU expansion, are well prepared and executed so
as to avoid the kind of poor quality projects that have hindered Peru's
development efforts in the past.
69.       While the proposed coal-based DR process has been troublesome in a
number of projects, plants in New Zealand (1969), South Africa (1974) and
more recently in Brazil are successfully operating with this process. Given
SIDERPERU's experience with the process, the risk should be minimal and, as
pointed out above, the suppliers are prepared to guarantee the operation of
the DR plant.
70.       One attractive aspect of the proposed project for the Bank would
be the experience it would gain in the execution of a coal-based DR project.
In view of the world energy situation there are several countries where a
coal-based DR process using non-coking coal might be utilized. Based on its
experience in Peru, the Bank could play an important role in assisting in the
introduction of this technology to these countries.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between SIDERPERU and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
72.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans
for technical assistance projects. The main features of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements are referred to in the text and the special conditions thereof are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 25, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 18-                                                   ANNEX I
p.,. 1      Page  1  of  5
TAJLU 3A
PtRg - SOC   INDIGATU D4T4A SBEET
PERU                        RPENECE QOUPS (WEIGRTED AVEZES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND So.                                                           MO.S -_____ T RECENT _STIVATE_
TOTAL          1285.2
AGRICULTURAL    305.5                               MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCME           MIDDLE INCOE
1960  k    1970    ESTIMATE k    LATIN AMIRICA A CAM7JJAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                250.0       420.0    740.0               1384.1                  2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)    445.0       619.0    649.0                1055.9                  1641.4
POPULATION AND VIT AL STATISTICS
TOPtLATION, IID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    10.2        13.5     16.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3       57.4     65.6                 63.4                    53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    29.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DN.                       6.0.       11.0     13.0                 28.1                    77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    33.0       44.0      55.0                 81.7                   129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.2       45.0      42.9                 41.4                    30.6
15-64 YRS.                        52.0       51.9      53.4                 54.7                    61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.8        3.1       3.7                  3.9                     8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.6         2.8      2.7                  2.7                     1.6
URBAN                             4.7ye      5.0       4.5                  4.1                     3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0       43.0      39.0                 34.8                    22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.0        15.0     12.0                  8.9                     8.9
GRSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1/d       2.9      2.8                  2.5                     1.5
FAhILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMXEN)   ..        ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         96.0       102.0     85.0                106.9                   113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  95.0        99.0     97.0                107.4                   125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         62.0       61.0      59.0                 65.6                    91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      27.0        25.0     24.0                 33.7                    39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDRTALITY RATE    28.0       20.0      16.0                  8.4                     4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0      *53.0      56.0                 63.1                    67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       122.0/      ..                 66.5                    55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       35.0      47.0                 65.9
URBAN                              *-       58.0      72.0                 80.4
RURAL                              ..        8.0      15.0                 44.0
ACCESS TO EXRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       36.0        ..                 62.3
URBAN                              *-       52.0        ..                 79.4
RURAL                              ..        16.0       ..                 29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2251.0lf   1859.0   1556.0                1849.2                  1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2205.Of    738.0    745.0                 1227.5                   929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           424.01A    470.0    547.0                 480.3                   289.7
URBAN                              ..      425.0
RURAL                              ..      3144.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        19.0       ..                   ..                    17.0
HOUSING
AVERGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.9        4.9/h
URBAN                             4.8        5.1h
RURAL                             4.9         4.7/h
AVERAGE NUHBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.3         1         .
URBAN                             2.0        1.77       ..
RURAL                             2.7        2.4         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            26.0        32.1       .
UREAN                            50.7       54.37.
RURAL                             4.0         2.         ..



- 19 -                                                            AMNEX I
Page 2           Page  2  of  5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                         REFERENCE GROUPS (URIGITED AVAffS
- MDST RgCEIT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MEDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b    1970 k ESTIMATE k    LATIN AMERICA & CARI3BEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 83.0       107.0     110.0                 99.7                   105.9
MALE                 95.0       114.0     115.0                101.0                   109.3
FEMALE               71.0        99.0     106.0                 99.4                   103.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 15.0        30.0      52.0                 34.4                    64.0
MALE                 18.0        34.0      56.0                 33.5                    71.1
FEMALE               13.0        26.0      48.0                 34.7                    56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (: OF SECONDARY) 20.0         17.0      23.0                 38.2                    28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           34.0        40.0      40.0                 30.5                    29.4
SECONDARY                         12.0        23.0      23.0                 14.5                    26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0          ..      72.0                 76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0        17.0      18.4                 43.0                    84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       110.0       137.0     131.0                245.3                   192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0        30.0      38.0                 84.2                   118.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..       124.0      96.0                 63.3                    93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..                   ..                     5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3187.8      3909.3   4980.4
FEHALE (PERCENT)                  21.0        20.7      23.9                 22.2                    30.4
ArRICULTURE (PERCENT)             53.0        45.0      39.0                 37.1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.0        20.0      21.0                 23.5                    29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.3        29.1      29.2                 31.5                    40.9
MALE                                49.2        45.8      45.3                 48.9                    55.9
FEMALE                              13.2        12.1      12.8                 14.0                    26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.7       1.6                  1.4                     1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/i        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4/i      61.0/h      .
IOWEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS    2.5Li       1.9/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.0/Li      7.0/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    235.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    180.0                 190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    293.0                 474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     200.0                332.5                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      49.0
RURAL                               ..          ..
HNo available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-ieighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970 between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimte, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1956-61;  /d 1960-65;  /e 1970-75;  /f 1964;       1962;  /h 1972; Li Personal income vithin labor
force.
April, 1980



- 20 -                                                                               ANNEX I
-~~~~~~ ~~Page    3   of   5
OtNiOTlpioN OF socIAL INPICATORS
Nots ii Aboh11 h ab  dat- t  dra'e  from  souce  geneall   u Itthe moa  a-tiattead reial.t  hul  at  lie noted chat clyma   o  beine-
nscuochlyccsaoablrbecaus  of th  lack  f stanardise   defintions  nd conepts ued by  itiaret counbiesiil coil cotog  he dat.  The  entate  note
tIl halu,uei   ootiaodr  ofsg I -Pe, Indct  trend,b an o-f,aracetiecena . .ajor dlfecehe  ben-e.   counitgiIes.  I.  .Il  V
of th   oiotcuty(ecp   on"aia  Ilopius Oil 1lpote`' 9t-pnhr  "Middle Incom   Norh Ott ica end Middle tan'iE                              becbeas   fsrne
LAlD ARid (,ib..said syka.)                                                                to.acypi;o              u-Op-Oico  cc--us  cc  Ioto  c    --rncog cy
Tottl -fotlsolacareropniaaTaod ateaad Inladoaes                                                                            -h-os.  ornoha    ic.  ccoeu,  -110.
forc-   t        ra,mre  af.itisgadnso  o  c                      .ATo; 1977 dana      'male  r.  femalt graduate Atre,po   cltre,olassatote
Gil' PER CgPITu 10511 - GNP per capita esimates sttures   aket po-, .Is-                     ore,ad-ualdil                y the it     ..pei.   nubrofhsit bd
cu1aned by sn  conerlo  mehod aa hand isic Atlas (1976-7t basis); 1960                     -oaabe t  poblc and pricaim  ge _ts  an   pnid P             hasPita' end 
iY,  ard170 dat.                                                                           n_iitiorant '.fopnlat  e                           .a.lsmen  yer. nnn tdtf
by si I.a-   ie pbystctat.  hcbonmnaproiding prinipallo  co:t:dia
ItEOGY COAShttPTIOtNPEt CAPliA - fata ...   ampeonIf  IO~ileeg   ci0                         cr -ne nn  -nIudd   nrloptasis, h_nener, Inliode health admdica
and l11iglte, ptoem    aua   a     hydra-, nulear7 and asohena  east-                      cantata.tot Pletmcelystufe  byi a1yymIcta- (hot by a mlbtl  ssIia,
_irocc    on kio     ..n of coa  sqinae     yen capita; toil' 1970, and 1978               nreadntf,rc)oIcIofri-ain  atdomdanin_and_ rande:
POIU-T~~~~.N AND "TAI, STATISTIUS                                    -bet  incude  IjO  totctfa  gete-s  ord oP-cli-ed boapftal, en _rra
cmyousiimid-beat lailtona -. A. of Joly 1; t9il, 1970, and 19708                dlsootrhsla   e      oa   ubnc   dlsooro  discharges
data.                                                                                     Ironb.  .-.  pp..t.;  -  hos1italt dinided by cIt t-nie  of bldos
--dilfferent dafin~iona of -rboasa  saY alfle  coparabIliy of dai                     HOSN
96,1970, aod T978 datu                                           utre   aec  oabod(es                   e   omhod      os    na,ad  -ura-
tota  poulatorby ae ad sa sd aeic   ortlIt  so  lerl  y rtes                    th  hoomahld dothnsiianoal  ocyres
yrjccoptomnrmomonlnymeeopia   hflslolssr                                      orsel       ior   aen   eto-ca                   ra
natafrltiiyrtJlobc  three lanalat asudto  d'cIioy  On                                -tobcopleddpdnte
friItyacrdn   ofnor  ae.           sdpa  famlyplnnogpafonace-Ocesa  tecrlc                               rtaoo  doellines)  b-dria          - orha , ad-utl
tec  contr  Is n.elYassigned one ofg these nInecohiatoo  o  sttily                  oneIfnlOellg   lyeenllyIc1tigqsir   eptrt
a   -donilotiradlnrjcinupaa.fPt,obtadctdehotapciay
th  brc  tn flis sqaI n   b  deah.rt,so.         a  abs ag  atucur  ye-            d-jCA IO
maIn1ontnt    hi  s  cia  oly af_e  fertiltty  raeI        elt  t             duidfrolattic
ihoacacnee  aceofnioarernuoronan,nensr   geertin                          rbtnnsdco-ccs, uPecdt...h.utttt.   tlmnfPa d
of somc repaces  tselfexactin.  Th  misioosoypopottilo  loe ta  anrolonotot si  agn.t .....on.....c..so p           .c ..t....o
aiciested on the basis P of l ice P ' pro .c...larc..io ic_s ofteppHton            piu obo-uappltos  notIy ohor                             chlde  age  iIl
crabs year 2000  and the rate -o derline of   h lecicynt-oepac-yer  h b-c edond to- ilrn    anlao   cmnodctIo   o
btt  aii                                                                               cotrr   Iloitsotoatcnchathoasdl   ecn
Irnsa 411mprlattI  rahd-Th   erthnmaEDtrUoCAnIy                                  atoetsTuplIoeONo   calo   h  olIiiscolsr
als  o  hersced      rhoanncol-taloladlaan-is,nraabc;ecIdt
,h,polaIiOt...e..ito
.e.n.t.-hd-erppuainpe   qae  cimca                     eiotlo                     duain  euon  thot  otyarlfmprtdrooyiarotIo
Y4 yesra)  and rtire   i05 year had   Thel a.- pecenaeso  mid-,yea   op-                   donytrmdpanentc  arod- nstott
harlot h..,100  and. 1970. data.                                                        Porl-amhe  raIo-on may  edd              eodto-ta    noat               ltdi
ofolnt   rmhtt   tnet    oa       nna   rnhrtn   fttlmd                                        oet  ad       11 -aodr   lln-ts  binlded .by numbers l tasheetto1   b
yea  poultin   fr  05-0,iIolI  sd  Od-O.c-rapndc  lcaa
PortmlonOtnghtae  rereo) -rbn-outalgrothraes  f  rba  PPO                   Adlt1 tarcy  at  Iercni  -  ich-m  auls.lb.e  o radmtdnnte
let cne to tOl-AT  100-70,and  070-P.                  mspeccrnmg  of orahaduh  poruat in agd 11yamn  mndo_ er
GrdeOtt dat   oayhomndl        Anua  liedrI e  hosn   fmdya
popolaloc;  9ff,  070,  nd lOl data                           ChihnP-ld
popoacln;  qiO,107,1ad 1)7      -d       b.dana.I_                                 -art 1satin  let  1hiilprsn;f              olda    et-nr,  basamsso
Inoa                                                                                                                            I..dcIntaaOaaetubro.agtesasmcil   eri  ilcrnbca
barloms  rprdunie  erod  f  haapnlocm   reen  ae-secifo  at      ldl  icsoes Ianthusodtooltor)- .11ryamo0reaier  fr  sd
t   AlnrIeauoal    teyar-aegsedtgin16,    -0 ad177                                    radatstR -Irtpolcra   huso  o   oilio;scuemo
PaliPloita  kctttsI        Coalntlad-ab-1uoa-alnoakbenf             g acair(emdectaslcutinodtyaaloaienitttdta
,.Pil                                                                                         d-ani-sr    rnrato   ane   pie)-Poatg  oyare  onre   do ..h.. 1.- icnIftg --.1
1-di- o   food 1rodctio60 a 1960 it0   1960_7t1B     -To            f of b-e captaanua    tint1o   dalygnrlItestoapr,dfin0spnodalub
Ino   ahndn  er  ass.ftaIiacoa   PimrYood  (.g  stacta                           tohr''al--" If I  ap-1erd at Plas1et fnuttssama
hragasdolauoaeiobIPlrbs....edlbenocaoooen     (enffaed-y.                        Iteaunalunnd_eorsltprls-tad                               _nsune
1970,iacpae  prouce  p97e  d..g.te  llf,17,an   96dt.an                              -oie01g
Parcaofoyy0pp41tltslonie(reroent of raoiinmma- ts-hoo-putlb.d from                              ~         l  l..  .
roergy equtooleot of net food supplIes snatlable ir rourtyp per canto  10000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
pe   e.Anial  sple  cmrm   dmsid-yuno.  mot  lticalLbrtoc tdtaa)-yrneclh   cig   esn,httdn
loot.an   eisinaci.  Otmpliaeood   nmlfed    ed.                                 re   ore   o   ,cohyd  o   oldcglomaosdIdet,tc
P1saol   7na;  90--, 111,an  177dos.lohdi.                                                     s  eronar  olotl  so  Irt    "P.. f91ad17   oo
Pe crIc  upl ofOotl (em  ore. day  -_rtl   oxoco   a   aoa                             Inono(ecs I  -l Lao. oreI...o,dnsnrto,nnlatno
oaIoN       yo   nlpaIa.ttap-                f  odI   ata   s  bn.t-                     adeetron,iss   o  oaaVrrroro  cot.h.(shot  fcron  lOd
quraans  onal  osnnosaiailahd  yId10rr... o  aoiat.90mo  17iOso
oloacao   0grm    ftoa   niropr ayn PIre  o   nml o ...                                        piloPt  (act(    oalml   cOlml-PrIcsoino
rols cotor,xiohIb  0 gat...     ol beaoolpoe.teestn-                          -aciiy  ae   rtcooedaIoalfae  and femal  lao  fore a
ard -tmhotrclai   ... t-f    -ltao do --c-e p    Iosnhgatf                      crestm   loe,eladeaacuaIc....shiaisepcue
hcrd  oo  broy;lIil-I,101  id1)75at.4ae-ecyc-oon  o  th  ppuIcIn  sd- ooYtbircynd   0fe  mii
orln  .....rIcIa..cii....e or-p   cilot    Socr(ohcrshct h-   1lI neau yicb-mt
as brth;lOu,1971ond  918  ots      Id                                                  loosoP"hdo.
-nlos   crdlotn    e                              -huesd   -d-to   deats-o ina -aude  one-I  -id
o     -ue  o .bosn ~ hlo . bIrths                                     .        TItdT T-OtiChI_d
ootsipo I Ochd etnse   -tht etr  or             .. unroe   tug  dnotanna           crttAlh -dmuotbhr  thsanti   o-odrqor-ntI  o
thattro  prtc                                  sntraih(ooYodbi
Pdboehola.nntng.sn                                hatima..adoa..solos  .oo         ...o  PIoo.bmdh(hi  oeopOlubmabmdumf
olthiroepectsm  ppulaions   inacrbaareapoblc                   toal rlanos poetrr loate  ecelis oe-thrd o  andage  er -nit
locorals  raoatdpoalocaceloc   norelballOOmaeerlrcsahoca   smybo          pnsccallocteoftheccntry.   Orlaclenellslenioddtrmthdn-ra
conoidayrtd  so  beigliti -  ap aoabe ece..of .h               . hos ..In roes  snee     lethtthajunes    r RarctcofIooInub    nea
rra dsllacea    tod  olyiln  the .,litostf  or        J    ..lir  of .eh. eod     htmtdltilinOltblalt   ran   noelnilec l-ms
do cotlace t  tran -a d .....ricas  yar -on  day -i fenlhog -Ihasd ua  F- yrrs  on dotlii  (...b... mId  ua)ncae  eiotep
ohIat   coeoao   ,ct-scohytcc-cs  ocemo  or  ftt tam                      I    .     -11h  190
yct hcf _ornond  c1il_tdyo-allat-__



A C T U ~~~~~~~~~~ILI.   r7 62 7R01J6132                                                                                     3 sD475622532.-.1              1937
1965             1990           1975            1976            897             1978            1179           198               1985                         1s6576   1976.73   1978-5
800  0.022  33323232                                7633.7           9431.1    L 2329.3             22362.         12333.         12338.3          12359.2        12203.3           23932.1                        '. 7 -.4.            3.2         U          0.0
3333 33 32    3 3    33303                         -2'51.1          027'.5 -3 35739.2                -00z5.539    024.1'          -203.3             221i.3       L22. 393 69.3 3fi                                           2 3                             r
33.2  rror7 s   d..                                60007.            2275.25         S 55..          29055.         0623371        2393.9           2120.9         320.3            236.                           2.3 -    21.   30 0.3                     223
233p2333 0.p. 35332 23 323323      333   -.331331 227.38            -5079.57         1191-5         1^6.65         35356.6         -266.3          -0123.6         -927.3 5633.3                                                                                .  
12333.6.3623                                        1455.6           1551.1          2313.3          2237.2          0291.2        2623.2          1322.2          3090.2            2934.3                         .       -27.3       8.7                   12.1
332331 0.1.3                                        103931           1306.2         2112.3           2132.1          663.2         1233.7           2211.2         2236.9            3332.1                        0 3       1.        12.2                    3.3
=.3.33.2  133130                                    1217.           1U93.3           1323.3          2233.7          1032.7        1333.9           3333.3         3337.6            3322.1                        2.3       22.3       9.3                   1e.0
{l977 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~3                                                         ..0
0.3333 33233L3*7.3 37.1                                         25.5           35.3            09.7           102.2          133.3            123.3          1324.1   331.15.i                                         7.2      12.0
33 3 323133 3r3232                                    75.6             20.7            90.2           91.3            102.0         212.6            129.3          222.6             30*4  2.2                      .    1 22.3         0.
333.333 33323 2.2..                                   96.1           210.7             32.9            35.9           136.c          33.3            103.3          103.3             312.3                        2.2       _.35        0.9
2332133336363533   112331                             0AeC      n       rr 6.3  50.7  4 1.3            33.2           33.02         256.3            222.1           --                 --
1110 97973-  t567                                                                               91bo                    z  
135  73015                                        1. 761,35C t10. r5re79r r3r6      33303  233a 302i              892333   23 r   23 333300                       332333 33333.                   00333  022              323  8013.33         %9;"- 3'3'238
233133123333                           80W.9          no.o                10.0            15.7             1.7           503.6       0169.3          50.3             15.1                1.4         3sotS            553.3        21.3    531.9           0.2
323233330                                          7265.5           371.7.            56.3             50.0            9.1            616.3       1021.1          13.1             21.2               5.4         0577.2           3103.3       330.3    333.2           1.9
2Go4 o            *                  1it                            S                                                                               6 d~I @3  4     2.6 4
rc t 95         Z 19735                            1917                          1              .0   1              9           23a233
1233333 233.323                                     75.1             51.1              15.9            72.5             13.6         -5.2          17.7           19.3             19.8              28.9
03233.23  2.,1p                                    '0.                 2.3             0              . 1.5             .3.7           .5           2 .7  9        26               3 a.6
3h23.1 2333t t 3     ""'                             4                 2.3              5.630           2.0              5.3          5.            0 23           2 .              233 29.3
ot~;0;     rn-230 rt3           333.0.1s*G7a*      1633            132334             17               97               17          6933226159.29lio
32333223                                            50.6              25.9             029             8.              29.0X        a2l1                                           2221.
83.136      9e           r4.2                                         62.5            46.1             54.9            *s.232303221353.rt zd 1                                     a2020 6336
.63r_t3o3 rs                                         5                 3.3             1.3             1.5 1'                       13323I37,7on0  3                  .23332        751221
03eL t_  or                                                                             3.Le  1974   1975  .575         0.23         1973 _         979 _
d t_ z                        99369~~22          12229            22256           2629k           a65fl          39560         933   33313.
__43333      o   ria 3.2ts .322L-6.3             9802               2192         132323              162232120237  331202                        607236
9340030    33 9012  233323       2'31             313               260993         29 712           13633:          296389       027380         233636tO
11_L  Ort6 33  302333   622eo3.         3          730239 861                        36332          1313 02         123          39339          39t7 3330 
6332233231323332532330.223.3                       7.3              13.3             33.1           21.3            23.2          37.3          231.3



U=1
5-
31            11 I             1:           loa
"5.8          31 5.7         W  a                              II.C           1,
M =1
31
IP:            "I 5                          :a           IJ                                                                                                                          `8. I
-I.?            13,5              .2       -35-              17.              15.
1.l            3'.7             T .'.
":1          133:13                       161:1        -351.3                                                                                      III,
IW6           IM                 1978                                           mz                                                                 22-11              W
1  .1                                                                           - A              67:1          151            l I
;1.3          17.1                         167.1           W.            A&                 35-
3":1          3         6                    9.6          1 ::                 ,           ,  :,                                        -1                ",              ": "          .  .1               ":,'               la..
",,    ,": 7                                ?_
151.1         1.8            618.5                                                                        - 3             131.1
73                                                                                                                                 ?.6
116.1           1                                                                                                                                                         1.
-.9
N:7                                  Al
131"a
385.3                          7,6                                                            -.1               -7                         J':
155.1        .7.
T,.
m.,            3 .3          51.3            51.1
I ..... .                        17.5                                                 11
I'     1 3
1 :9          131 1           15:l          83 .5        38-l                                                           6-6             "M.              6.:l
'51           3,:         'am            '671.1        -    .6         1117.8
22-12          191,    LIL                  22M            1976           -91, MI.                                                                                              .1-1                                                         7M
197
31:5           111:1a         111:1                         115:1 "35:,l
85.1                         ,`8                                          I-        73.1    .1
586.1         11V           -.a                                                                                              ;N:,                        Mlgl
1,3                                                           '6e:,
M.1                                                       52.-           93.1                        -IM.7                                  -a..            :X11
117a                                                                                              - 5            11,                                                                       I
m
5r'l           6:1
N                                    11.1           -8             11,7                13.                8.,
3
6'
a 1155.6 -1-            -1 li--                                        ..  .......                                                                                                         81:61



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at April 30, 1980)
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                         (less cancellations)
Number   Year           Borrower              Purpose         Bank     Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                                     268.2
949      1973       Republic of Peru        Education         24.0         12.9
1025     1974       Republic of Peru        Roads             26.0         0.8
1196     1976       Republic of Peru        Transport         76.5        59.0
1215     1976       Republic of Peru        Power            36.0         15.3
1281     1976       CENTROMIN               Mining            39.7        33.4
1283     1976       Banco Vivienda          Urban Dev.        21.6        17.5
1358     1977       COFIDE                  Industry          35.0        21.4
1403     1977       Republic of Peru        Agriculture       25.0        24.8
S-11     1978       Republic of Peru        Preinvestment    8.8            6.0
1693     1979       Republic of Peru        Program Loan   115.0          38.2
1771     1979       Republic of Peru        Irrigation       56.0         56.0
1806 1/  1980       Petroleos del Peru      Petroleum Prod. 32.5          32.5
1812 1/  1980       Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.        15.0        15.0
Total                                                 779.3        332.8
of which has been repaid                           149.4
Total now outstanding                                 629.9
Amount sold                           18.3
of which has been repaid           18.3              -
Total now held by Bank                                629.9
Total undisbursed                                                  332.8
1/   Signed, but not effective



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1980)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1960       Industrias Reunidas, S.A.         Home Appliances  0.3                0.3
1960       Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks            0.3              0.3
1960       Durisol del Peru, S.A.            Building
Materials         0.3              0.3
1960;1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers          4.1              4.1
1962;1968  Cemento Andino. S.A.              Cement             2.2     0.2      2.4
1964;1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo         Cement             1.1     0.5      1.6
1975       Southern Peru Copper Corp.        Mining            15.0             15.0
1978       Cia. de Minas Buenaventura        Mining             2.0     0.5      2.5
1980       Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.             Mining             2.7     0.5      3.2
Total gross commitments                             28.0      1.7    29.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            12.1     0.4    12.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                   15.9      1.3    17.2
Total undisbursed                                    2.7      0.5     3.2



-25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5. 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution was
still hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures. In order to resolve these problems, the project has been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage,
create a revolving fund and improve administrative procedures (see President's
memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project
execution has improved noticeably in recent months and disbursements now stand
at about US$10.7 million.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date:  August 21. 1974; Closing Date:  June 30. 1980.
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited government implementation capacity, the works
was divided into two stages which are financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's Memo-
randum R78-360 of February 17, 1978) and the Closing Date postponed. Construc-
tion is now well advanced and should be completed this year; however, the
Closing Date is being extended to permit the completion of studies being
done under the project.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project: US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project's river ports component has progressed slowly because
of technical problems which delayed completion of design, but it is now under
construction, although with some cost increases. There have been serious
delays in contracting for civil works under the road component because of
slow procedures and limited government implementation capacity. These
problems now appear to be largely overcome and construction is beginning on
most project components. The project has been modified so as to increase the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
financing for urgently needed road maintenance and elimine a improvement of
those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1979;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
recent economic difficulties, as well as procurement problems, have delayed
the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however, some
consultants have now been retained, and with strong support from the current
staff in the Ministry of Energy the program has begun to progress normally.
Because of the delays, the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, have delayed the
project by about one year. Most design work has now been completed and
construction of road components is underway. Because of past delays, however,
the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, has been delayed by about two years because of the lack of local counter-
part funds. The Government is now proceeding with the project with support
from a supplementary IDB loan which will help cover part of the financing
shortfall. Engineering, procurement and mine development activities on this
part of the project are well advanced. Construction of the mine-water treatment
plant has also experienced some delays but is now advancing satisfactorily.
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment
and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan. In view of this, the
Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--has agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
which would also guarantee these loans and provide some loar servicing.
With this action and improving economic conditions over the past year,
demand for the credit line has increased and it is now over 70 percent
committed, with full commitment expected by December 1980.
Loan 1403-PE: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2. 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
DEPERTC, the executing agency, has completed the design for civil
works in two of the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be improved
and construction has started. The project's implementation is behind schedule
but is expected to catch up over the next 12-18 months as construction
proceeds.
Loan S-11:     Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22. 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant's studies have commenced and are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1693-PE: Program Loan; US$115 million Loan of May 17, 1979; Effective
Date: May 24, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The economic recovery program supported by the program loan is pro-
ceeding in a generally satisfactory manner. Because of better than expected
export performance, Peru' foreign exchange constraint was relaxed resulting in
an initial lag in disbursements of the program loan. Disbursements began to
pick-up markedly in September 1979, however, and stood at US$109.6 million as
of May 31, 1980. The Closing Date is being extended to December 31, 1980 in
order to permit completion of the technical assistance component of the Loan.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million
Loan of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980:
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution is now getting underway.
Loan 1806-PE: Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of
-'                         March 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980. The conditions of effectiveness
for the loan are in the process of being satisfied.
Loan 1812-PE:  Puno Rural Development; US$15 million loan of March 18, 1980;
Effective Date:                              ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980. The conditions of effectiveness
for the loan are in the process of being satisfied.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PERU
SIDERPERU PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTION I: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: Nine months
(b) Project prepared by: SIDERPERU and the Bank
(c) First presentation to the Bank and first Bank mission to consider
project: July 1979
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: April 1980
(e) Completion of Negotiations: June 13, 1980
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 1980
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
It has been agreed that:
(a) (i) the qualifications, terms of reference and conditions of employ-
ment of all consultants would have to be acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) the Bank would be advised in advance of the criteria proposed
to be used for selection of consultants; and (iii) consultants for
the project management and studies' components would be appointed
by September 30, 1980 and those for operational assistance and
training would be appointed by December 31, 1980 (para 64); and
(b) after completion of the feasibility study and before a decision
is taken on whether to go ahead with Stage II, the Government
and SIDERPERU would provide the Bank with a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views thereon (para 64); and
(c) the Bank would have the right to suspend loan disbursements if
SIDERPERU ceases carrying out the Stage I expansion (para 64).



IBRD 15061
t\Te Ci/^ro    /Y7Chaqual   76      \,_>              J     ,                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~7zt  MAY 198V
TRUJILLO                                                                                        Th .ap -as haaapmpa<  b .  7a   e
Casm)\HUARAZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa ,y) aZ
I. \y t    -g1mhce   rd,s Of
Tho dpomrytom ~.am atahe4
La Gaiqada                                    Puclp- -                                          a 7
ada &ffaleOwyo
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ypaaa J     JOapmp 
H allanct         .eoio-       kAC 
c  UARAZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-'~RA1
12-UANUCOin   JeH HUNCAYD                                                  12
P;acific    Oce an                                         AHUANCAVELICA  
SIDERPERU   an<            . S       X         S    Caihuonca                       a
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT ,, 
Huar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
16~~             Major roadsIO D
Pac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
Deprtmensteel boara es
IntErnational boundary                       \
Call_                                         _        _ E   reoles
Coo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l Encentost 
Po 3 Iron'    ocea                     deLoiCA 
,  ffi  Railrood Ca                           -            CUH                    PAllCuata 
MILOMETERS 0         100              200  300         MollendX    0
76-                                                      72-     Ta Tmczaa/
P                                                            ,            . 



