Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20632
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24710)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR72.1 MILLION (US$100.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR AN EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
June 22, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
'official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan
Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = Yuan 8.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FILO  -       Foreign Investment & Loan Office
IAG    -      Innovation Assessment Group
ICB    -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR    -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA   -       International Development Association
LAN   -       Local Area Network
LCB   -       Local Competitive Bidding
MOE  -        Ministry of Education
MOF  -        Ministry of Finance
NC    -       Normal Colleges
NU    -       Normal Universities
SDR   -       Special Drawing Right
SEdC  -       State Education Commission
TIS    -      Teacher Information System
UBE   -       Universal Basic Education
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:    Yukon Huang
Sector Director:    Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader:    Dingyong Hou



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                          16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               24
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only  in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003567                                        Project Name: CN-EFFECTIVE TEACHING S
Team Leader: Dingyong Hou                                  TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 22, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: CN-EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                         L/C/TFNumber: 24710
Country/Department. CHINA                                                 Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: ES - Secondary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/23/90                                 Effective: 01/11/94
Appraisal:  08/07/92                                   MTR: 08/01/96
Approval:  03/16/93                                 Closing:  12/31/98            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: PRC/STATE EDUCATION COMMISSION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautum Kaji
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                                 Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Manager:      Alan Ruby                                   Zafer Ecevit
Team Leader at ICR:   Dingyong Hou                              Richard Durstine
ICR Primary Author:   Dingyong Hou; Hon-chan Chai
with inputs from Grace Mak and
Hena Mukherjee
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The central objective of the project was designed to contribute to improved teaching and
student learning at lower middle schools in 16 provinces by providing for better teaching services,



including instructional methodology, teacher training and management of teacher selection and
assignments. This central objective was supported by four functional objectives: (a) to improve
the condition of teaching and student learning at lower middle schools (LMS (b) to improve
training of LMS teachers nationwide; (c) to improve management and planning capabilities for
teacher selection, training and assignment at the national, provincial and county levels; and (d) to
facilitate innovative and productive activities in teaching and teacher training.
3.1.2 When the project was being prepared in early 1992, China's objective of providing nine
years of universal basic education (UBE), aimed at nationwide fulfillment by 2000, had more than
95 percent of children aged 6 to 11 years in the first six years of schooling and 60 percent of
those aged 12 to 14 years in lower secondary school.  It was therefore important to expand
access to the final three years of the UBE cycle covering the lower middle school (LMS) and to
improve its quality. The key to the qualitative improvement of the target area was the training of
LMS teachers. The Government sought Bank assistance to strengthen the development of
teacher education nationwide for the LMS (grades 7 through 9). The focus was of economic
importance because LMS schooling was increasingly required by employers as the minimum
qualification for productive work in the modem sectors.
3.1.3 The rapid increase in enrollments in primary and secondary schools over the past few
decades had correspondingly increased the number of teachers. Many teachers, supported by
local communities mainly for primary schools, were inadequately trained or not trained at all. In
the LMSs in the mid-1980s, it was estimated that close to 80 percent were unqualified. With
LMS enrollment expected to rise from about 40 million in 1991 to about 55 million in 2000, the
supply of qualified teachers was a critical issue. Depending on teacher-student ratios, which
varied widely between urban and rural areas, the number of teachers was projected to increase
from 2.5 million in 1991 to 3.3 million in 2000.
3.1.4 Traditionally, the pre-service training of primary school teachers has been the
responsibility of the normal schools, that of LMS teachers the normal colleges (NCs) and that of
high school teachers, the normal universities (NUs). NCs are post-secondary institutions which
provide two or three years of teacher training, while NUs are four-year higher education
institutions offering academic and professional programs leading to a degree. Some of the NUs
train both LMS and high school teachers. In that system, the teacher as an authoritative figure
was the central source of knowledge and transmission of knowledge was the central aim of
classroom teaching. While in practice there were important variations, generally conditions in
rural schools were not conducive to good teaching quality. Those conditions included deficient
facilities and equipment as well as students' home background and low staff standards. With the
publication in 1985 of the "Decision to Restructure the Education System" and the Compulsory
Education Law of 1986, the Ministry of Education (MOE) mandated and encouraged the
introduction of reforms in teacher training. The effect has been a gradual shift from emphasis on
knowledge acquisition to the development of student abilities. Nevertheless, the general mode in
schools and teacher training institutions has been the lecture method and rote learning, with little
focus on individualized leaming.
3.1.5 The key issues, therefore, were identified as (a) teacher supply and demand and the related
- 2 -



problem of managing teacher supply and training; and (b) the training of teachers, including
teaching methodology and practice.
3.1.6 Experience in China had shown that, given the complexities of estimating teacher demand
and supply, calculations must be made at the provincial and/or county level, based on
decentralized responsibilities and on a commitrnent to effective management. The quantitative and
qualitative dimensions of training teachers would require flexibility in training capacity, with the
emphasis on cost-effective utilization of facilities and teacher trainers. Effective teacher utilization
would require preparing teachers to teach more than one subject. More classroom, laboratory
and library space would be needed and their use more efficiently programmed on an institutional
basis. Instructional equipment, especially laboratory equipment, needed more effective utilization
through hands-on practical work by students. In teacher deployment, provincial management
needed to ensure that disadvantaged areas, especially in the very poor districts, should be
adequately represented in terms of teacher trainees who generally would return to teach in their
home counties.
3.1.7 The traditional teaching methodology and practice, which had served the requirements of
earlier generations, needed to be made more responsive to the changing demands of the
technological age. It was recognized, however, that the necessary revisions to teaching content
and methods should be based on national and local development needs, while respecting the
indigenous strengths and recognizing prevailing realities which would constrain rapid change. The
project design was therefore guided by the principle that any qualitative change in teaching or
teacher training should widen options rather than prescribe set actions. Those problems would
be best addressed by the proposed teaching methodology core seminars and innovation programs.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three components:
(a) The Institutional Element
3.3.1 Designed to improve the quality of LMS teacher training through better physical inputs in
training facilities, instructional equipment, library development and staff training, the component
consists of the following inputs:
Facilities Upgrading consists of new construction and rehabilitation of LMS facilities at
project institutions to be carried out by the provincial authorities.
Instructional Equipment Provision includes materials and equipment essential for all the
- 3 -



project NCs and for teaching in the LMSs, excluding purely research equipment. Training for
equipment use would be provided under the project for professional and technical staff. Short
courses would train a total of 740 laboratory directors, 760 laboratory technicians and 500
laboratory administrative staff.
Library Development supports the purchase of library equipment and books. Library
construction, included under the project's civil works, would increase reading places from about
48,000 (one place for every four students) to 65,800 (one place for every three students). Library
hours would be extended with an open-shelf policy in 50 percent of the libraries; each library's
stock would be increased by 3,000 to 4,000 additional essential books; library operations would
be computerized, and staff at different levels would be upgraded through training.
Staff Upgrading provides about 4,500 staff-years of in-country training for over 6,000
participants and 135 one-year overseas fellowships.
(b) The Management Element
3.3.2 The second component was designed to increase management and planning capabilities for
teacher selection, training and assignment at national, provincial and lower levels through
management training and development of a Teacher Information System. The component
provides support specifically for:
National Management Development provides overseas study tours and one-year training
programs for national level (mainly MOE) staff responsible for education planning and project
development, implementation and administration.
Provincial Management Development provides specialist services and in-country and
overseas training to strengthen the capabilities of the education offices in the 15 project provinces
in teacher management and project management.
Teacher Information System to be developed through the provision of hardware and
software for 281 TIS units: one within MOE's Educational Management Information Center
(EMIC), 15 in the participating provinces as part of their management information system, 141 in
selected counties, and the 124 project institutions. EMIC would provide general guidance on the
management of the TIS. To support the TIS, staff training would consist of a range of training
courses, including hardware and software applications, programming, local and national
networking and communications, and data collection, processing and presentation.
(c) The Quality Enhancement Element
3.3.3 This third component was designed to facilitate and promote innovations and
improvements in teaching and teacher training through the introduction and encouragement of
new approaches and methodology. It consisted of a series of teaching methodology core seminars,
pilot programs and an innovation fund. The component consists of the following interventions:
- 4 -



Teaching Methodology Core Seminars would develop new teaching methods, with a
primary focus on innovative teaching methodologies and a secondary focus on subject area
curricular materials. The national-level seminars, led by a small team of foreign and Chinese
experts, would train about 200 participants and the provincial-level seminars about 1,250
participants. Each seminar would be held at a different normal university. Each project province
would be represented by two or three participants, who would then lead the provincial level
seminars to be held at the project institutions. The institutions would be selected for their efforts
to innovate, experiment with and introduce new teaching methodology.
Pilot Programs would enable two project teacher training institutions selected for each of
the five subject areas to experiment with ways of disseminating the ideas and practices developed
by the core seminars.
The Innovation Programs would provide teacher training institutions the opportunity to
design and carry out experimnental teaching methodologies. An Innovation Assessment Group
(IAG), which would have overall responsibility for implementing this component, would ensure
that the evaluated results would be disseminated nationally through seminars, videotapes and
publications.
3.3.4 Through these components, the project aimed to address key aspects of providing
qualitative teaching and teacher training at the LMS level. The quantitative dimension of planning
for the supply and deployment of teachers would in due course be addressed through the
application of the proposed teacher information system (TIS) to be introduced under the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 In hindsight while the overall project concept was sound, there was no "disconnect"
between the development objectives and the Country Assistance Strategy and the design complied
with the quality assurance requirements at the time, two issues in design seem deficient. The
project did not initiate reforms/revision of training curriculum in explicit terms, and no direct
inputs were provided for this purpose in an operation aiming to address quality and efficiency in
teacher training. Institutionally, the project supported the policies and trends of decentralization
but failed to address the issue of diversity of institutional capacity, the project included 15
provinces which were locally managed by education authorities of variable capabilities and the
124 colleges had no prior experience in managing a complex project. This presented real
operational risks. However, during implementation, both deficiencies were partially mitigated
through complementary programs and processes such as the innovation programs and technical
assistance in building local capacity.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
-5 -



4.1.1 The key project input and outcome indicators as shown in Annex 1. amply demonstrate
that the project achieved its objectives of improving the condition of teaching and student
learning at lower middle schools (LMS); improving training of LMS teachers nationwide;
improving management and planning capabilities for teacher selection, training and assignment at
the national, provincial and county levels; and facilitating innovative and productive activities in
teaching and teacher training. The quality of the teacher training programs of the project
institutions has risen substantially. Evidence for this is provided by behavior changes
demonstrated by a community of policy makers, school administrators and teachers in closing the
gap between theory and practice in order to enhance classroom activities. Planning and
management capabilities have improved significantly with considerable efficiency gains, and
innovation in teaching and teacher training is spreading beyond the project institutions and to
secondary schools through the new teachers graduating from the teacher training institutions.
4.1.2 Along with the overall expansion of educational enrollment in the country. the project
succeeded in achieving an impressive rise in enrollment and in particular female enrollment in
project institutions. The quantitative achievements have given special added value to the
qualitative gains in teacher education whose expected long-termn impact on the LMSs is
reasonably assured. The increased and improved physical facilities have enabled the project
institutions to increase training college enrollments from about 205,000 in 1990 to 391,400 in
1999, of which 306,250 (78.2 percent) were enrolled in teacher education programs. Female
enrollments totaled 190,997 (48.8 percent of overall student enrollment), representing a 24
percent increase, compared with the appraisal expectation of a 20 percent rise. Of the females
enrolled, about 77 percent were in. teacher training programs. During the same period, teaching
staff increased by 25 percent from 30,135 to 37,770. The institutions have also become more
efficient in staff utilization, as reflected in the student-teacher ratio change from 6.8 in 1991 to
10.36 in 1999, a 52 percent improvement. This translates into a significant lowering of unit costs.
Furthermnore, about 31 percent of graduating teachers had double-subject teaching qualifications,
thereby enhancing another aspect of teacher efficiency. In 1991, very few Normal College
teachers had postgraduate degrees, whereas in 1999, 16 percent of the teaching force had a
master's degree or higher qualification, while about 10,700 or 28 percent had received non-degree
postgraduate courses.
4.1.3 Prior to the project, the lack of equipment and laboratory space restricted much of science
teaching to theoretical classroom lectures by the teacher. As a result of the project, the ratio of
science experiment classes reached 28 percent of total science classes, and, most importantly, the
average rate of science class experiments in all the project provinces reached 99 percent of
national curriculum requirements. The average number of laboratory opening hours per week in
1999 was 35; the laboratory utilization rate was 77 percent, which is about the maximum, having
regard to time allowed for laboratory cleaning, preparation work and general maintenance. The
average classroom opening hours per five-day week was 57, suggesting that classrooms were
often used for students' self-study after regular school hours.
4.1.4 Books and journals procured and delivered to the project institutions totaled 18.7 million
copies. As of December 1999, the total library stock of the project provinces amounted to 55.8
-6 -



million books and 6.62 rnillion journals. Together, they accounted for about 6 million titles. At
appraisal, the project provinces collectively had about 37 million books. The project increased the
collection by 18.7 million books and journals, making the average book-student ratio (BSR) about
141, or 70.5 percent of the appraisal recommended BSR of 200. The lower-than-expected BSR
is due to the larger-than-expected project institution increases in student enrollments, which had
risen by 91 percent, from about 205,000 in 1991 to 391,000 in 1999. The library opening hours
for borrowing books averaged 70 hours per week, with only minor variations among the
provinces (Annex 8).
4.1.5 The total number of all categories of staff trained under the project was 20,610, a 162
percent increase over the planned target of 12,723. The most striking expansion was in
in-country training of teaching staff, from a planned number of 7,906 to the actual of 14,240. The
180 percent increase reflected the priority given to upgrading the quality of teaching staff.
Overseas training, with a completion rate of 104 percent, included teaching and non-teaching
staff. This included 129 (out of a planned 124) teaching staff and 42 non-teaching (out of 40
planned). Seven of the 42 non-teaching staff were from MOE and the remaining 35 were from
the provinces. In all, 17 Overseas Study Tours against 15 planned were completed, involving 90
participants compared with 79 planned. The ideas and experience learned from the study tours
provided valuable feedback to the formulation of teacher training strategies and management
improvement processes at national and local levels.
4.1.6 The Innovation Programs, which fell into eight research areas, by January 1999, produced
over 4,200 reports, 7,186 journal articles, 792 books, 686 audio tapes, 869 video tapes, and 523
computer software items. A further 3,748 journal articles and 774 book manuscripts were due for
publication. The programs involved over 10,000 people, mainly project institution students and
teaching staff. Dissemination seminars had over 390,000 participants
4.1.7 Apart from the above measurable outputs, the Innovation Programs had a positive impact
by broadening the roles of the teacher training colleges and their faculty from teaching to teaching
and research. For the first time, the research potential of large numbers of faculty members was
unleashed, boosting their professional self-concept and morale. In the long run the impact would
hopefully translate into a continuous quality improvement in teaching in both the training colleges
and the LMSs. The status and morale of many training colleges have also been raised: some have
been upgraded from two-year to three-year colleges, and three-year institutions to four-year
universities. Many have built on their research base developed through the project, attracting
more research grants from other sources. A considerable number involved in the research
projects have been promoted to senior positions, and the consequent increase in the number of
senior ranking staff has elevated the profile of their institutions.
4.1.8 As the long-term objective of the project is to improve teaching and learning in the LMSs,
the potential or actual impact on the LMSs may be gauged from three aspects: content of
research, involvement of secondary school teachers in research, and higher quality of new teacher
college graduates. With about 15 to 20 percent of the research projects aimed at improving
different aspects of LMS teaching, the applied research yielded imnmediate results for practical
application.  The research benefits have also trickled down to secondary schools. Full details of
- 7 -



the outcomes and effects of the Innovation Programs may be obtained in three reports by the
IAG.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a) The Institutional Element
4.2.1 The completed civil works for the new and renovated physical facilities exceeded the
overall space target by 17 percent, despite counterpart funding difficulties in some provinces and
general price increases. The actual space constructed was about 1.08 million square meters,
compared with the planned construction of about 922,300 square meters. The majority of
provinces exceeded their original targets, except three (Heilongjiang, 93.8 percent; Hebei, 88
percent; and Hainan, 76.4 percent). The construction shortfalls did not materially affect the basic
institutional needs.
4.2.2 Equipment procurement was successfully completed and the equipment (under the main
categories of science and engineering, computers, biology, music, audio-visual and language
laboratory and physical education) is being used effectively. The greater proportion of the
equipment is for the teacher training institutions and directly related to preparing teachers for
teaching in the LMSs.
4.2.3 Library space provided totaled about 668,000 square meters for reading rooms (234,000
square meters); stacks (231,000 square meters); and other, mainly administration, space (203,000
square meters).
4.2.4 Staff upgrading for institutional development has been a notable success in terms of the
numbers of staff trained when seen in the context of the relative dearth of trained staff before the
project. A total of 14,215 teaching staff, 180 percent of the original target of 7,906, were trained.
They included 2,779 entrusted (commissioned) teachers on postgraduate courses; 3,508 assistant
teachers and 1,438 key backbone teachers on short advanced studies, and 1,259 domestic visiting
scholars.  The large increases in the number of teaching staff trained were due to the
corresponding increases in teaching staff of the project institutions resulting from the rapid
expansion in student enrollments. At appraisal, the total teaching staff in project institutions
amounted to 65,593 and that number increased to 74,823 at project completion, a net (14
percent) increase of 9,230. The total number of laboratory staff trained was 2,390, an increase of
14 percent over the planned target of 2,094. The increased number of higher qualified staff
contributed to the achievement of virtually 100 percent of the recommended laboratory
experiment rate and optimum  laboratory utilization rate.  The total number of college
administrative staff trained was 861, a 7 percent increase over the appraisal target of 804. They
included 231 college presidents, 218 teaching administrative staff, 195 financial administrative
staff and 217 equipment management staff. This has strengthened overall management of the
teacher training institutions. Similarly, library services have improved significantly as a result of
the training of 1,091 library staff, about 35 percent more than the original plan of 810 staff.
(b) The Management Element
-8 -



4.2.5 94 provincial officers were trained, comprising 43 planning staff, 23 financial management
staff, and 28 administrative staff. For the TIS, the total number of staff trained was 1,934 or
nearly 90 percent more than the planned number of 1,020, reflecting the importance placed by the
provinces on developing the TIS. All the project provinces reported that they had established, or
would soon be establishing, their TIS as part of their operating MIS which, with better trained
staff and new equipment, was beginning to provide strategic support to the process of improving
education management, office automation, and raising the level of teaching and research in the
TCs and TUs. The computerization of educational data collection and analysis will help improve
efficiency in educational management. Many of the project institutions have established their
campus intranet which, in many cases, is linked with a multimedia high-speed network joining
cable television. Several institutions are experimenting with long-distance teaching, which in turn
has stimulated the development of related software. All the project provinces have prepared plans
for the operation of their respective TISs for the next two to five years.
4.2.6  The Educational Management Information Center (EMIC) at MOE is responsible for
providing guidance in the development and operation of the provincial MISs and the intranets of
individual higher education institutions. During the first three years, it could not fully carry out its
function as a guide until its internal organization and the linkage with the national systems were
settled and its role clarified. Eventually EMIC resolved the early problems of designing a system
that would meet local needs and simultaneously be compatible with the larger national systems,
such as CERNET (China Education and Research Center Network), the latter having been set up
in 1995, initially linking ten leading universities, including Peking University and Qinghua
University.
4.2.7 In the rapidly changing social and economic conditions in China, EMIC has redefined its
role as the supplier of technical standards used in information exchange between various MISs
serving school management, instead of merely being the provider of unitary MIS software to the
project provinces and counties. Thus, the concerned educational authorities would be enabled to
fulfill unified technical standards for the various MISs when they are engaged in the secondary
development of MIS software.
(c) The Quality Enhancement Element
4.2.8 The pilot program which comprised core methodology seminars and the innovation
programs to stimulate new ideas in teaching, had a highly successful outcome which far exceeded
expectations.   The five Teaching Methodology Core Seminars (on Biology, Chemistry,
Mathematics, Physics and English) were held between April 1995 and May 1997. They involved
290 participants, compared with the planned 200 (40 for each of the five seminars). As each core
seminar was completed, dissemination seminars were held to spread the results among project as
well as non-project teacher training institutions, municipal education bureau research divisions
and secondary school teachers. Ten Pilot Programs were carried out, two for each of the core
methodology subjects, aimed at integrating the newly acquired knowledge in theory and practice
on teaching methodology in the subject concerned from both international and Chinese
experience.
9-



4.2.9 The Innovation Program, with a total of 460 sub-projects under eight major research
areas, achieved outstanding success. The programs had a slow start, due largely to research
proposals that the Bank did not approve because they were basically academic and theoretical.
Only after nearly two years of patient coaching did the IAG succeed in getting proposals that
were action-based and classroom-oriented. What was lost were quality improvements that might
have been realized sooner on the training institutions and through them on the LMSs.
Notwithstanding the delay, the programs nevertheless have provided a substantive foundation for
the quality improvement in teaching and teacher training. The quality and scale of the research
projects, unprecedented in the history of teacher education in China, have unleashed the research
potential and enhanced the quality of teaching of TC and TU faculty. They have also directly and
indirectly contributed to raising the quality of teaching in the LMSs. As part of the project, an
assessment was carried out in late 1998 and completed in January 1999 by an independent team
from Nanjing Normal University on the educational and social impact of the innovation program.
The main findings affirmed that the clearly formulated research topics were targeted at relevant
issues; the conclusions were supported by solid empirical data; the research output was rich, and
the research benefits had high potential for sustainability. The success of the innovation program
has prompted the MOE and other funding agencies to pay more attention to research in teacher
education.
4.2.10      Technical Assistance, covering specialist services and staff training in-country and
overseas, was effectively utilized, as evidenced by the highly successful staff training programs
and the activities under the Quality Enhancement component (core methodology seminars, pilot
programs and innovation programs).  The focus on developing local staff resources and
stimulating research in new approaches to teaching and learning will likely have a strong positive
long-term impact on teacher education and its management in China.
4.2.11      The Innovation Assessment Group (IAG), comprising national academicians and
key MOE officials, played a pivotal role in the successful outcome of the Quality Enhancement
component, which has generated a large output of journal articles, books, audio and video tapes
and other computer software items. The innovation projects have had a positive impact on the
TCs and TUs and indirectly on the LMSs. In the initial years, the work of the IAG was hampered
by lack of pre-fmancing by MOE, an arrangement which could have greatly facilitated and
expedited the innovation program. Individual IAG members often had difficulty pre-financing
their travel and perdiem expenses when carrying out their project duties.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The project had substantial institutional impact on two aspects: first, there has been an
increased recognition of the value of better communication and participatory processes among
stakeholders, policy makers and practitioners at national, provincial and institutional level. This
- 10-



was evidenced by better implementation performance following the Mid-term Review of the
project in terms of improved information flow and collaboration and increased accountability in
project management and reporting. Secondly, a gradual behavior change of policy makers in
their perception of and attitude towards quality and policy support for addressing the issues and
consequently increased willingness to sustain the reforms and good practice initiated under the
project such as the innovation program.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 A major govermment reorganization that took place in the later period of the project could
have slowed down the good rate of implementation. However, with efforts made to minimize its
impact, it did not affect the steady implementation and completion.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  Implementation Capacity.  Implementation had a slow start, partly because of the
diversity of implementation capacity and experience among the 15 provincial foreign investment
loan offices (FILOs), partly because of initially weak project coordination and insufficient
proactive implementation planning. The momentum picked up in the second year, but progress
was uneven. Activities in which the provincial FILOs and project institutions had experience
tended to move faster, such as civil works construction and provincial staff training, but those
requiring central coordination, such as equipment and book procurement, continued to be
delayed.
5.2.2 Counterpart Funding/Cost Overruns in Civil Works. Counterpart funds, cost overruns and
slow disbursements were problems faced, in the initial years, by several provinces which did not
get, on a timely basis, sufficient local funding for government-financed activities and
reimbursements for Bank-funded items. The problem was due partly to the lack of agreement at
the start of the project between MOF, which held the Special Account, and MOE on
reimbursement procedures for project expenditures. Actually, MOE was authorized to open an
account of US$2 million for payments against project expenditures. Furthermore, MOE/FILO
could only process reimbursement applications every three months. A cost overrun of 54.4
percent was incurred for civil works construction as a result of price increases and the need for
more space arising from larger-than-expected student enrollments. Other cost overruns were in
staff upgrading, library development and equipment procurement, but the cost savings in the TIS,
Innovation Programs and other activities offset the overall cost overrun which finally was only 3.3
percent of the appraisal estimate. Disbursements were slow during the first two years due partly
to incomplete understanding of disbursement procedures, need for clarification on the provisions
of DCA regarding disbursement and partly to the complicated and protracted local processing
procedures among some provinces.  Following clarification of these problems at an
implementation review meeting in Hainan in late 1995 and follow-up action by MOE-FILO,
disbursements accelerated. Nevertheless, at the end of 1998, the original Closing Date, only 71
percent of the Credit had been disbursed, mainly because of the delay in the second ICB.
- 11 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 Procurement. Equipment procurement was delayed under the first and the second ICBs,
partly because of the complexities of coordinating and rationalizing equipment lists and
specifications for 124 project institutions. While the two ICBs, as a whole, were satisfactory,
several provinces voiced some dissatisfaction with the first ICB over some equipment - low
quality, damaged goods, receiving more sets of equipment than requested, late delivery of certain
items, and poor after-sales service. The feedback from the provinces helped improve preparation
of the second ICB which consequently, although also delayed, had fewer problems.
5.3.2 Audit and Financial Reporting. On the whole, the audit and financial reporting was timely
and in compliance with the credit covenants. However, the Bank's review of the 1998 Audit
Report discovered some weakness in internal control in Fujian Province and minor
non-compliance of Bank requirements in Inner Mongolia. In Fujian Province, the problem arose
from a procedural matter in regard to local accounting practice that was not in conformity with
international good practice. In Inner Mongolia, it was a misunderstanding of the use of
counterpart funds for two colleges. Both issues were satisfactorily resolved.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 Project Costs and Disbursements. At appraisal, the total base costs were estimated at
$204.3 million, physical contingencies at $15.9 million and price contingencies at $36.2 million,
bringing the total project cost to $256.4 million. Financing was distributed as follows: central
govermment, $53.0 million; provincial governments, $103.4 million, and IDA, $100.0 million. At
completion, the total project cost was $266.5 million equivalent, an overrun of 3.9 percent.
Cumulative disbursements as of April 30, 2000, when the credit account was closed, totaled
$101.6 million. The credit was fully disbursed. The additional $1.6 million was due to the
exchange rate between US dollar and SDR for the original credit of SDR72.1 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The benefits flowing from the investments made under this project have a high probability
of being sustained.  A  major benefit of China's policy of decentralization has been the
strengthening of provincial, prefecture/municipal and county authorities' role in providing and
operating education services for the people. Particularly relevant is the fact that the operational
control of teacher training for LMSs is vested in the province and prefecture; for higher middle
schools and higher education, the responsibility is vested largely in the provincial government. As
the 124 project teacher training colleges are established, on-going institutions, they are assured of
operational funds by the relevant authorities. The incremental operational costs resulting from
new project inputs (better classrooms, laboratories, libraries and computer facilities) would be
offset by cost savings through more efficient utilization of these facilities, teachers and
administrative staff. While a possible risk might arise from the operation of the TIS, all the
provincial reports at the project implementation completion seminar in December, 1999, in
Beijing, presented reasonably realistic plans for post-implementation operation for the next five
- 12 -



years, for which they provided assurance of budgetary support.  The rapidly spreading
computerization of educational administration and the development of provincial and regional
computer networks linked to CERNET and guided by MOE's EMIC would provide the impetus
for the effective development and operation of the TIS.
6.1.2 The spin-offs from the innovation research projects, a huge number of publications
including books, journal articles, audio and video tapes and computer software produced as of
January 1999, would generate income for the colleges to continue supporting the innovation
research projects in the coming years. This would be in addition to the financial support that is
likely to come from the provincial and central authorities who are convinced of the great value of
the teaching methodology innovation programs to raising the quality of teacher training and
eventually of secondary education. The project has strengthened the overall provincial capability
in managing the provincial teacher training system, thus reinforcing the decentralization of
educational management, which in turn enhances sustainability. It is hoped that the high value
Chinese culture places on education, which accounts for the remarkable achievements over the
last half century China has made in providing universal basic education and the development and
expansion of higher education, will help to sustain the strong commitment to education and assure
national and provincial budgetary support for the project's operation phase.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 Following project completion, MOE is working with each province to develop an action
plan to sustain the project and its impact in the next five years. The action plan is based on the
education development plans of each province for the next five years and the lessons leamed from
the project including such steps: (a) maintain steady investment in project institutions so as to
consolidate and expand the project achievement; (b) widely disseminate the lessons and best
practice to non-project institutions and other education programs; (c) follow-up on the pilot
programs of core seminars of teaching methodology; (d) provide budgetary support for
maintenance of the project funded facilities and equipment and TIS operations; (e) rollover staff
training for all staff and teachers, (f) increase investment in TIS at provincial and institutional level
for operation and upgrading; (g) continue the project initiated reforms towards greater efficiency
and effectiveness.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 Bank team provided able assistance in the identification and preparation of the project.
The government had strong ownership. The project was designed to respond to the objectives
defined in the government strategy ( see par. 3.1.4) and consistent with IDA's CAS. The
preparation process was efficient.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 The project benefited from the supervision and advice of more than 130 staff weeks. The
- 13 -



scope of the project which covered 124 teacher training institutions with a total enrollment of
about 205,000 in 15 provinces posed a challenge for project supervision. The supervision missions
had to be selective in visiting project provinces and institutions. Soon after credit effectiveness
following an initial delay caused by Borrower's internal administrative procedures, the project
suffered a setback when the first task manager, who designed the project, died suddenly.
Following an unprecedented implementation review in Hainan in late 1995, attended by
representatives from all the 15 provinces, the new task manager succeeded in getting the project
back on track by working closely with MOE/FILO on detailed implementation plans, key project
monitoring indicators, project reporting and reimbursement procedures.
7.2.2 Resident mission staff provided efficient and timely back-up support to supervision
missions, especially in procurement and project accounting matters. Bank project supervision was
ably aided by the efficient and conscientious work of the IAG, which effectively implemented the
project's Quality Enhancement component. Careful scrutiny by the Bank of proposals for
innovation programs ensured that the most relevant to teaching methodology and related issues
and design, were selected so that high standards were established at the outset.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1 Overall, Bank performance during project preparation and supervision is satisfactory. The
Bank's mature working relations with MOE/FILO, MOF and the provincial FILOs as well as its
encouragement extended to the development work of the teacher training institutions helped the
project reach a successful conclusion.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 Borrower performance was considered satisfactory during project preparation. Its strong
ownership and collaboration with the Bank team was essential to enable the project be prepared
quickly and efficiently.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 Borrower performance was satisfactory during most of the implementation period.
Implementation issues occurred during the first half were successfully addressed at the joint
Mid-term Review. The performance was improved and effective since the MTR.
7.5.2 In regard to Audit Reports and Annual Progress Reports, the Borrower has been in
compliance with Bank requirements. The Borrower provided timely and satisfactory support to
Bank supervision missions. Special mention must be made of the supportive role of the IAG in
setting high standards of professional work and producing timely detailed reports on the project
activities under its supervision. Its dedicated and highly professional approach to implementing
project activities ensured the successful achievement of the objective of facilitating innovation in
teaching and teacher education.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
- 14 -



7.6.1 The delay of the first ICB affected teaching programs of project institutions which had
been planned with the use of the new equipment to be procured. Similarly, the delayed
procurement of books upset the planning of certain courses that depended on the availability of
the new books. Provincial FILO requests in the first two years for reimbursement encountered
delays, partly because some provincial authorities were unfamiliar with reimbursement
procedures, partly because a few provinces had protracted procedures.  Several provinces
experienced difficulties in securing timely counterpart funding. Despite the availability of funds
from the Special Account, some provinces had problems in pre-financing certain project activities.
Delay in completing the second ICB necessitated an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1999.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 Borrower performance was considered satisfactory overall in that despite the
implementation difficulties and issues during the early phase, the project succeeded in achieving
the objectives it set to achieve which is not possible without borrower continued commitment and
collaboration throughout the implementation period.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1   The experience in the design and implementation of this project provides the following
valuable lessons:
(1)   Ownership and participation of local stakeholders. Where a project objective is in close
harmony with the larger national aim, such as reform through innovation to improve education
quality, success of the project is assured by strong ownership and active participation of the local
stakeholders.
(2)   Leadership/Communication. Where the project involves a large number of institutions and
sub-implementation agencies spread over a wide geographic area, a strong central implementation
agency characterized by dedicated and decisive leadership is necessary to guide and coordinate
provincial implementation and ensure timely execution of centralized project activities that are
linked to provincial and institutional activities. A clearly articulated communication system should
be in place at project start to ensure an effective two-way information flow from and to the
center, the province and the project institutions to facilitate project action-planning and
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and project and financial reporting.
(3)   Implementation Capacity/Coordination. To ensure the centralized activities be carried out
efficiently without adverse affect on other key project entities and the overall pace of
implementation, the Borrower and IDA should thoroughly assess institutional capacity to manage
such a large and complex project at appraisal. Action plans for the first year, therefore, should be
one of the requirements for negotiations. It is essential for all implementation agencies receive
adequate training and guidance and be familiarized with operational procedures and principles
including project management, disbursement, monitoring and evaluation, and project reporting.
- 15 -



(4)   Procurement Planning.         Procurement of equipment and educational materials
requiring ICB or local competitive procedures should be given top priority planning and
preparation so that bidding may start as soon as the project becomes effective.
(5)   Monitoring and Evaluation.  Key project monitoring indicators should be clearly
established and a standard reporting format adopted before the start of implementation to
facilitate data collection, analysis and integration, as necessary, for institutional, provincial and
national progress reports. Implementation agencies should use continuous project monitoring and
evaluation as a planning tool to prepare the action plans for the following year.
(6)   Participation. The Innovation Programs demonstrate that, where the project seeks to
improve education quality, practical research activities involving staff and students to address
actual quality issues are likely to produce outcomes that will meet project objectives.
(7)    Support and Commitment to Research.  In research projects, the benefits tend to be
short-lived where the leaders seem more interested in acquiring equipment through research funds
than in the value of the research per se; but where administrative support is genuine, the research
benefits are longer-lasting. Staff commitment to research is also a very important factor.
(8)   Impact on Education Policy.  The success of the innovation program  provides clear
evidence that well designed and implemented innovations are likely to produce positive and strong
impact on policy making by influencing the thinking and behavior of policy makers to support
reforms and dissemination of good practice.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrover/lnplementing agencv:
9.1   The Borrower thinks that the ICR made a clear description of the project and its
implementation in terms of project targets, implementation experience and results. The statistical
data supporting the report is trustworthy. The Borrower agrees on the whole to the viewpoints,
analysis and recommendations made in the ICR.
9.2   Project Background. In 1991, the government in its Ouitline of Ten-year Program for
National Economic Development and the Eighth Five-year Plan: developed the targets and
action plans to further expand nine-year compulsory education in all provinces of China at a rate
commensurate with local conditions of three geographical region. A main problem in achieving
this strategic target was the shortage of teachers and the poor quality of teachers. For example, in
1991 only about 51.8 percent of the teachers in lower middle schools were considered qualified.
To address the problem, the Ministry of Education decided to target 16 densely-populated.
autonomous and minority provinces and regions to assist in their efforts of achieving universal
nine-year compulsory education with a credit from the World Bank and counterpart funding from
the government. Following thorough preparation and negotiations, the project, Effective Teaching
Services, became effective in January, 1994.
9.3   Project Objective.     The agreed objective of the project was to improve learning
- 16 -



quality at the LMS level by providing with better teaching services, including instructional
methodology, teacher training, and better management of teacher training and assignment. While
improving the teacher delivery services, the project will have three functional objectives: (a)
improve the quality of LMS teacher training through better physical inputs, management and staff
training; (b) increase management and planning capabilities for teacher selection, training and
assignment at national, provincial and lower levels; and (c) facilitate innovative activities in
teaching and teacher training. The credit and the counterpart funding was to finance innovation
programs, civil works, teaching equipment, books, technical assistance and teacher information
system in teacher training colleges and provincial education departments.
9.4   Project Irnplementaltion anad resuilts. As ETS project was the second teacher training
project in the series of educational projects financed by the World Bank, its implementation
benefited from the lessons learned of the first teacher training project and other previous projects.
That was the increased focus on quality and innovations. It is clear that among all the projects
funded by the World Bank, the innovation program of this project is one of the most successful
ones. The main characteristics of the project were solid preparation, broad scope of its coverage
and a large number of provinces and institutions participating. During the implementation of the
project, the World Bank, MOE, Ministry of Finance and all the project implementing departments
demonstrated their diligence and cooperated closely, which ensured all parts of the project were
implemented smoothly. To ensure the project activities to be carried out in compliance with the
policy and procedures of the World Bank and that of the Government, MOE provided not only
project management training for the staff from the project provinces, but also adopted a
decentralized approach in implementation by delegating more autonomy to the project provinces
and the institutions which in part contributed to the success of implementation of all project
activities, including innovation programs, civil work construction, equipment and book
procurement, technical assistance and teacher information system. The World Bank credit was
fully disbursed at credit closing and the government provided counterpart funding in amounts
exceeding the original plan. What is particularly noteworthy, was the innovation program of the
project, the Chinese and foreign experts and the participating institutions did an excellent job and
achieved a complete success, which greatly push forward the teaching and research work of the
project institutions. Most project perfonnance indicators were reached or exceeded. The
management capability at provincial and institutional level was strengthened, and a Teacher
Informnation System (TIS) was established and operational, which accelerated the development of
the project institutions in tenn of capacity and efficiency. A few implementation issues related to
procurement and disbursement were identified and addressed in the course of implementation.
They were fully discussed in the Bank's analysis in this report. No further explanation will be
given here.
9.5   Project Sustaincability.   The Chinese government has set a high target for teacher
development in the 21st century. As this project is a major component supporting that goal, the
MOE is working with each province to develop an action plan to sustain the project and its
impact beyond the implementation period. The action plan will be based on the education
development plans and policies of each province for the next five years and the successful
experience of the project to include such a elements and steps: (a) to maintain steady investment
in the project so as to consolidate and expand the project achievement; (b) to make full use of the
- 17 -



project's exemplary function by applying its successful methods in other educational projects; (c)
to further disseminate the achievement of the innovation programs and to follow-up on the pilot
programs of core seminars of teaching methodology; (d) to provide budgetary support for
maintenance of project funded facilities and equipment and TIS operations and etc.; (e) to carry
on the training for all staff and teachers, (f) to increase investment in TIS at provincial and
institutional level for completing a national TIS network; (g) to keep the focus on the reforms of
project institutions, and deepen the structural reform for greater efficiency and effectiveness, and
(h) to maintain the stability of project management staff at all levels and make full and sustainable
use of the human resource.
9.6   Comment on World Bank's Performance. The WB officials and the consultants being sent
to China were all possessed with high professional and management abilities. Some of them had
worked harmoniously with the Chinese counterparts in previous projects. During the
implementation period of the project, the WB project task manager and consultants made many
constructive suggestions when visiting and supervising the project, and helped solve some
problems appeared in the project implementation, which contributed to the successful progress of
the whole project. During the period of the project's appraisal and initial preparations, the WB
project task manager, who did not know much about the project implementation background in
China, had made some project designs unsuitable for the actual conditions, which hampered the
project, and the rate of implementation had also been affected. For example, it is stated in the
Development Credit Agreement that the credit can only pay for 55% of the domestic goods
procured in ICB and the counterpart funds should pay for the left 45%. As the result, the total
project cost was not accordance with what reckoned by the project design at appraisal, which
caused a big shortage in counterpart funds. This had suspended the implementation during the
first half of the project. And the implementation began to be carried on smoothly only when the
agreement was amended; this is a lesson worthy to be learned.
9.7   Borrower's Perjbrmance.   At the beginning of the project implementation, it was not
easy to carry out the project because of the weak management capacity of the provinces and the
large number of the institutions included. However, the project management training combined
with the decentralized arrangements, the project provinces began to develop an experienced
project management team to handle the complex tasks. The Ministry of Education conducted site
supervisions of the project in each province during implementation to find problems and solve
them timely. MOE also provided guidance and coordination for overall implementation and in
particular for procurement and overseas training programs. Overall, MOE as the Borrower's
implementing agency successfully fulfilled its responsibilities for project implementation,
management and coordination.
- 18-



(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorIMatrx                     Prcte in last #fR                      A iEOJct atest   mate
Output Indicators:
IndicatodMatrix                     projce in last PSR        :aDLt  Estimate
Institutional Element
Female enrollment rates                50 % of enrollment                     Increased 24%
Double-subject graduates               60% of trainees                        72.5% of trainees
Percent of qualified teachers          10% increase                           Increased 30%
Teacheres weekly contact Hours         10% increase                           Increased 23%
Lab weekly open hours                  75% increase                           Increased 75%
Library weekly open hours              70 hours weekly                        69.7 hours weekly
Percent of experiments performed       100% prescribed                        99% performed
Percent of science course lab work     25% of course time                     27.7% of course time devoted to lab work
Copies of library books per student    200 per student                        143 copies per student
Percent of standard equipment operational   100%                              99% operational
Management Element
Percent of planned training carred out  100%                                  167% completed
Percent of planned TA carried out      100%                                   100% completed
Teacher Information System operational  100% at national and provincial level  100% operational
Quality Enhancement Element
Core Seminars carried out              100%                                   100% completed
Pilot programs carried out             100%                                   100% completed
Innovation programs carried out        100%                                   300% completed
End of project
-20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)  _  _         .                  ..
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost Byr C;omponent            LUS$ million     US$ million
Facilities Upgrading                                    78.00           120.40           154.4
Instructional Equipment                                100.10           104.70           104.6
Library Development                                      8.00            11.10           138.8
Staff Upgrading                                          4.20            15.30          261.9
National Management Development                          0.30             0.50           34.2
Provincial Management Development                        0.40             0.50           83.9
Teacher Information Systems                              7.30             7.50           102.7
Core Seminars                                            0.40             0.40            100
Pilot Programs                                           0.10             0.10            100
Innovation Programs                                      5.60             6.00          107.2
Total Baseline Cost                                    204.40           266.50
Physical Contingencies                                 15.90
Price Contingencies                                    36.20
Total Project Costs               256.50           266.50
Total Financing Required                256.50           266.50
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00         100.50        100.50
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                     93.00         10.00         23.80         0.00         126.80
(69.50)       (7.50)       (14.50)       (0.00)       (91.50)
3. Services                   0.00          4.30         7.20          0.00         11.50
(0.00)        (2.20)       (6.30)        (0.00)        (8.50)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         17.70          17.70
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                      93.00         14.30        31.00        118.20        256.50
(69.50)       (9.70)       (20.80)       (0.00)       (100.00)
-21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Prouremient MethtodI
Expenditure Category    |          Iroc                                    N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           127.20         127.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)            (            (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00            0.00           80.00          40.00          120.00
(71.90)        (14.90)         (0.00)           0            (86.80)
3. Servic-es                     0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (8.50)          (0.00)         (8.50)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00            1.60          17.70           19.30
(0.00)         (2.50)         (3.80)          (0.00)         (6.30)
Total                         0.00            0.00           81.60          184.90         266.50
(71.90)        (17.40)        (12.30)         (0.00)         (101.60)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
3' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
iPerentage of Appraisal
Apraisal Estimate             Actua      t     e
|  Bank      Govt       CoF.       Bank      Gov.       Co;F.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
All components           100.00     156.40               101.60     164.90              101.6  105.4   0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
-22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Mlissions:
!Stae of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
09!90                          2    Educators                             S                  S
I    Economist
06/92                          3   Educators,                             S                  S
I     Economist
I    MIS Spi.
I    TA
Appraisal/Negotiation
08/92                          4    Educators                             S                  s
I     Economist
i  /  MIS specialist
I     TA specialist
02/93                          3   Educators                              S                  S
2     Economist
I     MIS specialist
I    TA specialist
08/93                          3   Educators                              S                  S
2     Economist
I     MIS specialist
I    TA specialist
Supervision
07/94                                                                     S                  S
2   Educators
I  Operations officer
I  Procurement specialist
04/95                                                                     S                  S
4  Educators
I  Operations officer
I  Procurement specialist
I  MIS specialist
I  Disbursement specialist
- 24 -



11/95                                                                        U                  S
2   Educators
I   Operations officer
I   Procurement specialist
I   Management specialist
09/96                                                                        S                   S
2   Educators
I   Operations officer
I  Procurement specialist
I   Management specialist
I  Disbursement specialist
08/97                                                                        S                   S
2   Educators
I   Operations officer
I   Procurement specialist
I   Management specialist
I   Disbursement specialist
11/98                                                                        S                   S
2   Educators
I   Operations officer
I   Procurement specialist
I   Management specialist
I   Disbursement specialist
05/99                                                                        5                   S
I   Educators
I   Operations officer
I   Evaluation specialist
ICR
12/99                                                                        S                   S
I    Teacher educator,
I    Evaluation specialist
I    Operations officer
(b) Staff
|[    Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                USS (.000)
Identification/Preparation                 106.5                         233.3
AppraisaVNegotiation                        20.5                           50.7
Supervision                                130.6                         220.5
ICR                                          8.0                           16.8
Total                                      263.8                          521.3
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
D Macro policies
O Sector Policies
N Physical                                   *OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial
Z Institutional Development                   OH  0 SU O M  O N  O NA
I Environmental
Social
O Poverty Reduction
O Gender
O Other (Please specify)
0 Private sector development
O Public sector management                    O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
0 Other (Please specify)
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
r Lending                                            OHS OS   OU  OHU
E Supervision                                        OHS OS   OU  OHU
E Overall                                            OHS OS   OU  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS * S   O  u  O HU
O Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S  O  U  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS 0 U O HU
-27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide-memoire, Implementation Completion Mission, the World Bank
2. Borrower's contribution to the ICR by FILO, MOE ( in project files )
3. Implementation Completion Report by 15 participating provinces ( in project files )
4. The Social Effects of Innovation Programs - Assessment Report ( in project files )
- 28 -



China
Effective Teaching Services Project
(Cr. 247 1-CHA)
Implementation Completion Review Mission
December 13 - 27, 1999
Aide Memoire
Introduction
1.   A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Dingyong Hou (mission
leader), Hon-chan Chai (implementation evaluation specialist, consultant) and Grace Mak
(teacher training specialist, consultant) visited China during December 13 - 27, 1999 to
provide advice and assistance to MOE and the project provinces on implementation
completion and reporting of the captioned project. The mission held discussions with
officials of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office, Teacher Education Department and
Education Management Information Center of Ministry of Education and officials from
Hebei Provincial Education Commission and visited project institutions in Shijazhuang
and Baoding city. On return to Beijing, the mission in collaboration with MOE held a
stakeholder workshop participated by representatives from 16 project provinces and the
project's Innovation Assessment Group to identify good practice and share the lessons
learned. A wrap up session was held with MOE on December 27, 1999. The mission
wishes to express its gratitude to the staff and management of these institutions for their
good cooperation and warm hospitality. The Aide-memoire records the mission's findings
and recommendations which are subject to review by Bank's management.
2.   The main objectives of the mission were to assess: (a) the degree to which the
project achieved its development objective and outputs as set out in the project document;
(b) other significant outcomes and impact and prospects of sustainability; (c) lessons
learned and arrangement for dissemination and (d) the data and analysis to substantiate
the assessment.
Summary of Project Inmplenmentation and Achievenment of Development Objective
Project Status at Completion
3.   The project became effective in January, 1994 and will close on December 31,
1999. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1998 and an one-year extension was
requested by the government and granted by the Bank to facilitate smooth
implementation and dissemination of the innovation program and remaining
procurement. Despite a rocky startup and faced with difficulties arising from delayed
effectiveness, disbursement issues and a transitional period between the unexpected death
of the Bank's former task team leader and the taking over by a new task team leader in



the early years of implementation, the project achieved steady progress, especially
following the mid-term review. To date, the project has essentially completed all the
planned implementation activities including all planned procurement actions except four
on-going dissemination workshops for the innovation program which are taking place in
December. Disbursement will continue for the expenditures incurred in the past few
months and those to be incurred prior to the Closing Date. The cumulative credit
disbursement recorded by the Bank and the disbursement report from FILO, MOE show
that a balance of approximately US$1 million equivalent would remain undisbursed and
will be cancelled when credit accounts are finally closed. Each project province has
provided data and analysis on the project and its implementation experience, including
lessons learned and an operation plan to sustain the benefits of the project.
Towards Achieving Development Objective
4.   The development objective of the project was to contribute to improved learning
at the lower middle schools (LMS) by providing for better teaching services,
including instructional methodology, teacher training and management of teacher
training and assignment. This central objective is supported by forr functional
objectives: (a) to improve the conditions of teaching and learning at lower secondary
middle schools: (b) to improve training of LMS teachers nationwide; (c) to improve
management and planning capabilities for teacher selection, training and assignment;
and (d) to facilitate inn zovations in teaching and teacher trainiig. The project at
completion appears to have achieved these fi4nctional objectives as set out in the Staff
Appraisal Report. Measured by the key project monitoring indicators, the project has
effectively:
(a) strengthened institutional capacity through the provision of new and rehabilitated or
extended physical facilities, equipment, books and staff training for teaching, library
services and general administration;
(b) improved management of teacher training through staff development and establishing
the Education Management Information System (EMIS) in general and Teacher
Information System (TIS) in particular; and
(c) improved the quality of teacher training through staff upgrading and innovation in
teaching methodology in mathematics, science and English language.
Project Impact and Sustainability
5.   An initial assessment of the impact of the project is encouraging. A good and
surprising example was during the project completion workshop, a top teacher training
official applauded the success of the innovation program and voiced his genuine support
for further expansion and dissemination. He spoke enthusiastically of its impact on the
development of a national policy to encourage such innovations in teacher training. It is
particularly worth noting that this official who, as the Bank's main counterpart in MOE at
2



appraisal, had opposed the idea of including an innovation program was now openly
embracing the change towards quality education as the direction in the new millennium.
6.   The probability of maintaining the project achievements appears to be high as the
project has created an enabling environment and set in motion a process of continuing
improvement which contributes to the long term development objective. The
developments under the project took place in the larger context of the country's drive for
improvements in the quality of the teaching force, status of teachers, emphasis on the
contribution of education and science to national strength, and greater efficiency. In turn,
the successful outcome of the project and in particular the success of the innovation
program and active dissemination has had a positive impact on the development of
national and provincial teacher training policies to support innovation in teaching and
learning. It has also generated renewed commitment by local governments to provide
budgetary resources to finance on-going and future dissemination and expansion of the
successful pilot innovations to non-project institutions nationwide. As confirmed at the
Project Completion Workshop and in their respective project completion reports, each of
the 16 project provinces has provided an Operation Plan with budgetary support to
sustain the project operation and benefits for the next five years and beyond.
Institutional Element
Civil Works/Physical Facilities
7.   The provision of new and renovated physical facilities has been successfully
completed, despite price increases during implementation and difficulties faced by some
provinces in obtaining the necessary increase in counterpart funding. Some provinces
experienced higher price increases than others and their provision of counterpart funds
for civil works varied accordingly. This accounted for the variation in actual space
constructed among the provinces. Nevertheless, the overall civil works construction
target has been exceeded by 17 %. The actual total space constructed was 1,078,818
square meters compared with the planned construction of 922,313 square meters. The
majority of provinces exceeded their original targets, with three exceptions: Heilongjiang
(93.8 %), Hebei (88 %) and Hainan (76.4 %).
8.  In Heilongjiang, the shortfall of 3,870 square meters for the six project institutions
translates into an average of 645 square meters per institution. In Hebei, with 10 project
institutions, the shortfall averaged 996 square meters per institution. In Hainan, with only
two project institutions, the shortfall per institution averaged 3,671 square meters. In all
the three provinces, however, the construction shortfall has not materially affected the
basic needs of the teacher training institutions because the shortfalls concerned mainly
proposed renovations or extensions to old buildings which are still usable.
9.   Of the total space constructed, 874,409 square meters or 81 percent were for new
facilities and 204,410 square meters or 19 percent were for rehabilitated and extended
facilities. The total cost of civil works was RMB 674.6 million, comprising RMB 620.9
million for new construction and RMB 53.7 million for renovation and extension. This
3



represents a 57% cost overrun, which was due mainly to excess construction and price
inflation.
Equipment
10. The equipment procurement was successfully completed and the equipment is
being put to good use. The greater proportion of the equipment is for teaching in the
teacher training institutions. The equipment, which is directly related to the preparation
of teachers for teaching in the lower middle schools, includes basic instruments and other
necessities for demonstration laboratory experiments and practice in the teaching of
science (physics, chemistry, biology), social science (geography, psychology), fine arts,
music, audio-visual aids and physical education. Other things include computers and
equipment for language laboratories and libraries.
11. As of December 1999, the project provided the following categories of equipment:
science and engineering, computers, biology, music, audio visual and language labs and
physical education.
Utilization of Facilities and Equipment
12. As a result of the project, the average rate of class experiments has reached 99 % of
curriculum requirements; the average number of laboratory opening hours per week is
35; the laboratory utilization rate is 77 %; and the average classroom opening hours per
week is 56.
Library Space, Books and Reference Materials
13. Library space provided under the project totaled 667,980 square meters, of which
reading space totaled 233,719 square meters; space for stacks, 231,459 square meters;
and other (mainly administration) space, 202,802 square meters. The project aim was to
provide 3,000 to 4,000 essential books and reference materials for the library of each
project institution as part of the support for the development of library services. Book
procurement would give preference to the acquisition of dictionaries, reference books and
other materials necessary for improving knowledge of recent developments in academic
subject matter and teaching methodology.
14.  The procurement  and distribution of books and reference materials were
essentially completed in 1998. Books and journals procured and delivered to the project
institutions totaled 18.7 million copies worth US$8 million. As of December 1999, the
total library stock of the project provinces amounted to 55.8 million books and 6.62
million journals. Together they account for 5.99 million titles. At project appraisal, the
project provinces collectively had about 37 million books. The project accounted for an
increase of 18.7 million books and journals.
15. The average book-student ratio (BSR) is about 141, which is only 70.5 % of the
appraisal recommended ratio of 200.  Only two provinces (Hebei and Anhui) have
4



reached the recommended target. The BSR among the provinces ranges from a low of 69
(Jilin) and 78 (Guangdong) to a high of 169 (Fujian) and 172 (Henan). The average
number of journals per student is about 16, ranging from less than one journal per student
for Jiangxi to about 33 for Hainan. Library opening hours for borrowing books averaged
70 hours per week, with only minor variations among the provinces. The larger-than-
expected student enrollment increases have been responsible for the lower BSR.  The
total enrollments of 205,186 in the project institutions in 1991 had increased by 91 % to
391,366 in 1999.
Staff Upgrading in Institutional Development
16.  Staff upgrading in institutional development included training for (a) teaching staff;
(b) laboratory staff; (c) institutional administrative staff; and (d) library staff of project
institutions.
17. Teaching Staff Academic Upgrading. A total of 14,215 teaching staff, or 180 % of
the original target of 7,906, received training.  They included 2,779 entrusted
(commissioned) teachers on postgraduate courses; 3,508 assistant teachers and 1,438 key
backbone teachers on short advanced studies, and 1,259 domestic visiting scholars. In
addition, 5,321 staff received various short-term training courses. The three provinces
with the largest numbers of teaching staff trained were Sichuan (1,909), Guangxi (1,387)
and Liaoning (1,049). In percentage terms, the three provinces with the highest increases
were Sichuan (309%), Chongqing (298%) and Jiangxi (238%).
18.   The large increases in the number of teaching staff trained are due to the
corresponding increases in teaching staff of the project institutions as a result of the rapid
expansion of student enrollments. At project appraisal, the teaching staff in project
institutions amounted to 65,593 and that number increased to 74,823 at project
completion. A net increase of teaching staff of about 9,000.
19. Laboratory Staff Skill Upgrading. The planned total number of laboratory staff
who were to receive training was 2,094. The actual number trained was 2,390, an
increase of 14%, ranging from the lowest at 74.4% (Jilin) to the highest at 158%
(Sichuan). They included 637 laboratory directors, 1,192 laboratory teaching staff and
561 laboratory administrative staff. The three provinces with the, largest numbers of
laboratory staff trained were Henan (410), Sichuan (319) and Shandong (235). The
increased number of higher qualified laboratory staff contributed to the achievement of
99% laboratory experiment rate and 77% laboratory utilization rate (para. 12 above).
20.  Administrative Staff Management Skill Upgrading.   The planned number of
college administrative staff for training was 804. The actual number trained was 861 (+
7%). They included 231 college presidents, 218 teaching administrative staff, 195
financial administrative staff and 217 equipment management staff. Supported by the
reinforced provincial   management information system, the skill upgrading  of
management staff has strengthened overall management of the teacher training
institutions.
5



21. Library Staff Skill Upgrading.. The project provided for the training of a substantial
proportion of the library staff of the project institutions and the upgrading of library
services to make the college libraries more dynamic and interactive. Seminars led by
experts dealt with library computerization, multimedia developments and reader services.
Overseas study tours for key library staff acquainted them with modern library services in
other countries. The actual total number who received training was 1,091 or about 35%
more than the original plan of 810 staff. Bearing in mind that many staff participated in
more than one training program, the trainees were made up of 668 in short-term in-
country training; 145 in long-term training; 291 in national seminars, and 156 were on
one-year overseas fellowships.
Management Element
Management Improvement
22. The project provided for staff training at the national and provincial levels to
strengthen central-level and provincial-level management of teacher education. This
would be supported by a Teacher Information System (TIS) at the central level as part of
the Educational Management Information Center (EMIC) at the MOE and at provincial
level in each of the 16 project Provincial Education Commissions (PEdCs) and selected
county education offices as part of the Educational Management Information System
(EMIS).
23.  The project provided for the training of 20 MOE planners out of which, 6 were
trained through short overseas studies, and another 6 were through national training
workshops.  For the provinces, training was carried out for a total of 94 persons
comprising 43 planning staff, 23 financial management staff and 28 administrative staff.
It should be noted that Guangdong and Chongqing did not participate in this training
program; and Jilin did not participate in the financial management and administrative
staff training programs.
Teacher Information System (TIS)
24. Training for the TIS was practically completed by the end of 1998. It was
coordinated with the procurement of equipment under the second ICB. As of December
1999, the total number of staff trained was 1,934 or 89.6% more than the planned
number of 1,020. It should be noted that Jilin and Chongqing did not participate in this
training program. (Jilin had planned for 8 staff to be trained, but none took part; as
Chongqing was originally part of Sichuan, its quota may have been included in the
number of trained staff for Sichuan.) Among the provinces, the number of TIS staff
trained ranged from a low of 12 for Shandong to a high of 584 for Henan- Discussions
were held during the wrap up session about the above variation of data. The Training
Division of FILO explained that in the case of high number given it maybe resulted from
counting person times rather than number of persons. And in the case of low number, it's
possible that the number was referred only to the yearly data rather than cumulative.
6



FILO agreed to investigate this discrepancy for the provinces concerned and furnish the
Bank the updated data.
25. All the provinces have reported that they have established, or will soon be
establishing, their TIS as part of their operating EMIS. Some are more advanced than
others, but all have declared that the improved information system (as a result of the
project inputs of staff training to complement the acquisition of new equipment) has
accelerated the process of improving education management and office automation and
raising the level of teaching and research in the teacher training colleges and university
teacher training departments. The computerization of educational data collection and
analysis will improve efficiency in educational management. Many of the project
institutions have established their campus intranet which, in many cases, is linked with a
multimedia high-speed network joining cable television.  Several institutions are
experimenting with long-distance teaching, which in turn has stimulated the development
of related software. All the project provinces have prepared plans for the operation of
their respective TISs for the next two to five years.
The Educational Management Information Center (EMIC)
26. The EMIC has effectively carried out its responsibility of providing leadership and
guidance in the development and operation of the provincial management information
systems (MISs) and the intranets of individual higher education institutions. It has
successfully resolved the early problems of designing a system that would meet local
needs and simultaneously be compatible with the larger national systems, such as
CERNET.
27.  In the rapidly changing social and economic conditions in China, EMIC considers
that the focus of its work as the agency responsible for processing of statistical
information at the national level should "shift from the supply of unitary MIS software to
the project provinces and counties to the supply of technical standards used in exchange
of information between various MISs serving school management." In this way, the
concerned educational authorities would be enabled to fulfill unified technical standards
used in the exchange of information between various MISs when they are engaged in the
secondary development of MIS software.
28. With this redefined role in mind, EMIC has drawn up a provisional program for
sustaining the benefits of the TIS. It would host annual meetings with the provincial
authorities to help them develop their MISs and facilitate the mastery of new IT
knowledge and skills by staff. Special efforts would be made to disseminate to other
higher education institutions in project as well as non-project provinces the database
development techniques fostered by this project. Software would be updated every two
years and provinces would be given support in their efforts to develop relevant software
applications. This is to further the project objective of enabling provincial and county
authorities to incorporate relevant informatioLn in their basic databases so that they may
provide more detailed and accurate information for decision-makers in the education
departments.
7



Staff Upgrading
29. Staff upgrading comprises all training activities in the project, including (a)
teaching and non-teaching staff of project institutions; (b) management staff at national,
provincial, county and institutional levels; and (c) teaching methodology core seminars
and pilot programs. This section reports on the first two categories, the third category
will be covered in the section on Quality Enhancement Element.
30.  In-country shortAong term training. Training activities have been completed.
The overall rate of completion is 162%. A breakdown of the completion rates by
categories of training is shown in Table 1. below. All training categories have exceeded
their target numbers of persons, with the highest rate for Teacher Information System
(190%) and the lowest for In-country training of institutional administrative staff (107%).
When absolute numbers are considered as well, the most striking expansion has taken
place in In-country training of teaching staff, from a planned number of 7,906 to the
actual number of 14,240 (180%). This reflects an emphasis on the priority of upgrading
the quality of teaching staff.
31.  As reported in the aide-memoire for the mission dated April 26-May 8, 1999, these
were adjusted figures based on negotiation between FILO, MOE and the provinces and
institutions. The gist of adjustment was an increase in long-term training that is more
relevant to institutions' needs, and a corresponding decrease in less desirable short-term
training.
32. At the Project Completion Workshop held on December 17 and 18, 1999, the
representatives from the 16 provinces (including Chongqing) expressed satisfaction with
the training activities. They indicated that training had generally enhanced the quality of
both teaching and non-teaching staff. The amount of funds, and the emphasis that it
represented, for training of teachers college staff, was unprecedented.  The positive
feeling was grounded in both extrinsic and intrinsic terms. For the latter, many provincial
representatives stated that teachers college staff usually had little access to training
abroad or at top universities in China, and the ETS project had made this possible to them
and raised their self-esteem. Nevertheless, some weaknesses were reported by a few
provinces in the provision of training in terms of related cost and relevance of the training
content.
Table 1. Status of Training
Category              (A)                (B)                    Completion rate
Total no. planned  Total no. completed thru (B/A)
In-country  training  of 7906            14215                  180%
teaching staf9
In-country  training  o 2094             2390                   114%
laboratory staff
8



In-country  training  of 804               861                     107%
institutional
administrative staff
la-country  training  o 810                1091                    135%
library staff
In-country  training  o 89                 94                      106%
provincial administrative
staff
Teacher     Information 1020                1934                   190%
System
All                    12723               20610                   162%
Note: The table does not include training of MOE planners and overseas training.
33. The overall figures do not reflect the disparities among provinces. Table 2. below
provides the extent of disparity by category of training. Neither the FILO, MOE
Implementation Progress Report nor the provincial reports explained the disparities. In
some instances the striking rates may be due to a low base number. For example, Nei
Mongol had a total planned of 8 persons for TIS training and an actual of 251, thus a
completion rate of 3,138%. However, other extremes in high or low rates, especially the
0% of Guangdong, Chongqing, and Jilin, still await an explanation. The mission had
stressed in each of its previous supervisions the importance of both the description and
analysis of statistics. This continues to be an area that needs improvement.
Table 2. Inter-province Variation in Training
Cate%orv             Overall conml)[etion rate Highiest compiction rate Lowest completion rate
ln-country training of 180%                309% (Sichuan)       105% (Nei Mongol)
teaching staff
In-country training o 114%                 158% (Sicltan)       74%  (Jilin)
laboratory staff
In-country training o 107%                 154% (Chongqing)     80%  (Jilin)
institutional
administrative staff
In-country training o 135%                 273% (Henan)         90%  (Liaoning)
library staff
In-country training o 106%                 200% (Slhandong)     0%         (Guangdong,
provincial                                                      Chongqing)
administrative staff
Teacher   Information 190%                 3,138%/ (Nei M{ongol)   0%/  (Jilin)
System               I
34.  Overseas trainin .  This sub-component comprises training for teaching and non-
teaching staff. Its overall completion rate is 104% (N= planned 164, actual 171), with a
breakdown at 104 % for teaching staff (N= planned 124, actual 129), and 105% for non-
teaching staff (N= planned 40, actual 42). 7 staff out of the 42 were from MOE and the
remaining 35 staff were from the provinces.
35.  The provinces expressed a general satisfaction with overseas training, but provided
little detail. However, the head of Baoding Teachers College, which the mission visited
9



on December 15, 1999, reported that a teacher of its English Department stayed in
Australia between April 1996 and June 1997 as a visiting scholar. There, in the process
of completing his research, he came to know current developments in English teaching in
Australia and came up with some solutions for problems in this field in China.
36.  Overseas study tours.  As reported in the last aide-memoire, 17 study tours had
been completed, as compared to the planned number of 15. The actual number of
participants was 90, as compared to the planned number of 79. According to FILO's
report, the ideas and experience learned from these study tours were feedback to the
formulation of teacher training strategies and management improvement processes at
national and local levels by the participants. Another benefit is that the study tour
provided an opportunity for the Chinese Co-chairs for the five core seminars to meet and
discuss about the program with their overseas counterparts. This type of exchange
facilitated the planning and successful delivery of these seminars.
Quality Enhancenment Element
Innovation Program
37. The quality enhancement element has had a successful outcome. It comprises a
total of 462 research projects, most of which were conducted by institutions and a few by
PEdCs. Due to unanticipated personnel reasons and with the consent of all parties
concerned, two projects were cancelled. The actual number is therefore 460. They fell
into eight areas of research: (a) Professional skills enhancement and use of educational
technology (21% of total, N-95); (b) Teaching methodology in specialisms and
laboratory experiments (20%, N=93); (c) Objectives, scale and curriculum of tertiary-
level teacher education (17%, N=79); (d) Reform in educational administration (10%,
N=48); (e) Quality education (as opposed to examination-oriented education) (9%,
N=40), (f) Relevance of teacher education to local community needs (9%, N=40); (g)
Reform in education and teaching at lower middle schools (7%, N=31); and (h) Other
significant areas of reform such as education for minority groups and girls, population,
environment, and special education (7%, N=34).
38.  The research projects have been completed, and their output continues to be
published in books, journals, videotapes, newspapers, and seminar presentations. The
latest output is the volume entitled Quality-oriented Education for Modernl Teachers: The
Locomotive of Basic Educationt Reform. copies of which were distributed to participants
at the Project Completion Workshop. This volume, published in November 1999, was
edited by Professor Tu Guohua (Chairman of the IAG group) and Mr. Jin Changze
(former director of the Teacher Education Department, MOE). A collection of reports of
63 award-winning research projects, this publication is an outstanding testimonial of the
impact of this project on teacher education in China.
39.  The provinces also published their collection or selection of reports of research
projects conducted by their respective institutions. According to the representative from
Heilongjiang province, the research outcome was particularly significant at a time of
10



policy change in teacher education. Traditionally, teacher institutions monopolized
teacher supply. In recent years, graduates from other types of institutions have been able
to join the teaching profession if they have taken additional courses in teaching. Some
key schools have recruited graduates from comprehensive universities rather than those
from normal universities. The new competition has urged teacher institutions to convince
school principals of their unique value in teacher education. The presentation of the
research results has accordingly contributed to the search for a distinctive identity of
teacher education to reflect its growing esteem.
40. According to some provinces, the innovation research projects, together with staff
upgrading and institutional improvement in the other components of the ETS project,
have had a positive impact on the quality of graduates from the project institutions. For
example, Shandong and Heilongjiang reported that it has taken shorter time (varying
from one to two years) for the making of a lead teacher in lower middle schools than
before (about 10 years). Fresh graduates from the project institutions tend to be more
versatile and able to use new teaching methods, and therefore are welcomed by forward-
looking LMSs.
41. The report on the assessment of the social impact of the innovation programs,
headed by Professor Yu Jiayuan of Nanjing Normal University was completed in January
1999. The main findings are: clear and accurate choice of research topics, solid work
supported with empirical data, rich research output, and good potential for sustainability
of research benefits.
42. Officials from FILO, MOE and FILO/PEdCs generally applauded their
achievements in the research projects. They appeared to appreciate the long-term value
of this kind of qualitative enhancement in indigenous capacity building. A former top
teacher training official of MOE recalled that during negotiation of the ETS project in the
early 1990s, he was opposed to including the research projects, maintaining that it was
too much to allocate 5% of the credit to them. In hindsight, if he were to negotiate the
project again, he said, he would argue for at least 10% for them. The Chairperson of the
IAG group reiterated that because there had been no precedents for this sub-component,
he and his colleagues had been learning by experimenting as they carried out the project.
Teaching Methodology Core Seminars and Pilot Programs
43. The findings from this supervision on Teaching Methodology Core Seminars and
Pilot Programs are similar to those of the last one. The new development since the last
supervision is that the tenth Pilot Program, conducted in Chongqing, was completed in
November 1999, bringing this sub-component to completion.
44. Evaluation, Dissemination and Sustainability. As reported in the last supervision,
a spiral cycle of research, review and dissemination characterized the research projects
and Teaching Methodology Core Seminars. Participation in this model of evaluation and
dissemination proved to be effective in hands-on experience and of increasing awareness
of increasing cost-effectiveness through evaluation and dissemination. At the Project
II



Completion Workshop, provincial representatives in their reports spelt out their plans to
sustain these achievements. Some provinces said they would continue the dissemination
effort, others declared they planned to set aside a sum to continue the research effort.
Audit, Disbursenment and Financing and Other Compliance
45. Cumulative disbursement as of December 20, 1999 is USS98.5 million against the
credit of US$ 100 million equivalent. A balance of US$3.1 million remains. According to
the FILO, MOE's disbursement record, an additional US$2 million has been committed
and will be disbursed prior to credit account closing and a remainder of US$1 million
equivalent will be cancelled.  The 16 participating provinces provided counterpart
funding amounting to RMB988 million, equivalent to USS120 million, to finance civil
works, library books and materials and local training. This cumulative amount exceeded
the original funding target of RMB743 million by 33%. The total project cost at
completion amounted to US$220 million excluding the final accounting of the
counterpart funding at the national level which was planned for US$53 million. FILO,
MOE will furnish the Bank the updated data on this funding. The breakdown of
cumulative disbursement by category is shown in the table below.
Cumulative Disbursement by Category
In US dollars
Category                   Amount Disbursed            Amount Undisbursed
Equipment/materials        87,658,918.71               2,452,554.98
(Coinpotient 1, 11)
Equipment/materials         1,699,417.59               98,731.61
(Component 1I1)
Consultant/Pilot (Component 1I1)  139.849.88           -614.09
Consultant/Training (Coat III)   3,019,354.11          250, 714.31
Training/Pilots (Comilponent 1, II, 3,480,351.29       2,671,753.36
III)
Special Account            2,500,612.63                -2,300,888.73
Unallocated                0.0                         0.0
Total                      98,498.504.21               3,172.251.44
46. The Bank's review of the Audit Report 1998 indicated non-compliance of
requirements and internal control weaknesses. The mission followed up on the following
issues with MOE:
a) Inner Mongolia.   Accounting of completed civil works as counterpart fiLnds. MOE
presented the mission with a written explanation from Inner Mongolia's Education
Commission that the building of Baotao Teacher College was part of the overall civil
works project completed prior to project start but it was agreed at appraisal that such
newly completed building would be part of the facility upgrading as required by the
12



project and therefore was considered in part as counterpart contributions from the
college to the project. The mission requested official response by the Inner Mongolia
authorities to the Bank for further review. Inquiry was also made in the case of
Chifeng Teacher College about a portion of the counterpart funds which were
tentatively used for purposes other than planned project usage. The explanation from
the Inner Mongolia officials and a written statement from the college confirmed that
the funds were wrongly used by the college itself and not by a third party. Action has
been taken to return the funds and assurance obtained to prevent similar incidents in
the future. An official response in writing from the authorities was also requested.
b) Fujian Province.   The provincial PIO did not prepare its own financial statements
and separate accounts for counterpart funding. FILO, MOE explained that the
financial management was structured as such that project expenditures by project
institutions were directly reported to FILO, MOE and no expenditure occurred at the
provincial level. Based on current accounting practice in China, the provincial PIO
was therefore not required to prepare such a statement. The task team felt that such a
practice was not the best practice in terms of sound project management and financial
management and recommended that this be corrected in future implementation
arrangements.
c) Shortfall of counterpart funds in Shandong and Hebei. The mission requested an
explanation for the above. Documents were produced by FILO stating that the
shortfalls were a reflection of tentative financial difficulty of the local authorities but
all the funding gaps have been closed and final accounting of the counterpart funds
showed that the original commitment has been exceeded.
47. No other non-compliance issues, financial or legal were reported at completion.
Actions Agreed and Next Steps
48. During the wrap up session held with MOE on December 27, 1999, agreement was
reached on the following actions:
*  FILO and Teacher Education Department of MOE will ensure timely completion
of the on-going dissemination activities by December 31, 1999 and timely
completion of disbursement by April 30, 2000 or any earlier date the Bank may
establish.
*  FlLO, MOE will prepare its own Implementation Completion Report for the
project on behalf of the Borrower following the format and content agreed with
the mission shown in Annex 2.
*  FILO, MOE will prepare an Operation Plan for sustaining the project operation
and benefits and submit it together with the ICR.
13



* The Bank will prepare its ICR and provide MOE with the draft ICR for comment
no later than March 15, 2000 and MOE will furnish to the Bank its comment no
later than April 30, 2000.
* The project will close on December 31, 1999. The Bank will notify the Borrower
of the closing and the grace period for completing final disbursement.
Annex 1  Project Monitoring Indicators
Annex 2   Suggestions for Preparing the ICR.
Annex 3  Implementation Progress Report - FILO, MOE
14



