Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11273-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
FEBRUARY 19, 1993
iEnvironment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II (China and Mongolia)
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
I his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 1992)
Currency Name = Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = $0.18
$1.00 = Y 5.42
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FILO   -   Foreign Investment and Loan Office
HMS   -   Higher Middle School
IAG    -   Innovation Assessment Group
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -   International Development Association
LAN    -   Local Area Network
LCB    -   Local Competitive Bidding
LMS   -   Lower Middle School
MIC    -   Management Information Center
MIS    -   Management Information System
MOF   -   Ministry of Finance
NC     -   Normal College
NU     -   Normal University
PED    -   Provincial Education Department
SDR    -   Special Drawing Right
SOE    -   Statement of Expenditure
SEdC   -   State Education Commission
TIS    -   Teacher Information System
TSD    -   Teacher Services Department
TTI    -   Teacher Training Institution
UBE   -   Universal Basic Education
GLOSSARY
Province - China is divided into 22 provinces, five autonomous regions and three municipalities.
In this report "province" refers to any of these, as appropriate.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:         State Education Commission and 15 project-supported provinces
Amount:                SDR 72.1 million ($100.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA, with 35 years maturity
Description:           The central aim of the project is to contribute to improved learning at
the lower middle school level by providing for better teaching
services, including instructional methodology, teacher training and
management of teacher training and assignment. In assisting a range
of teacher delivery services, the project will have three functional
objectives: (a) improve the quality of lower middle school teacher
training through better physical inputs, management and staff training;
(b) improve management and planning capabilities for teacher
selection, training and assignment at provincial and lower levels; and
(c) facilitate innovative activities in teaching and teacher training. The
project will assist China's effort to strengthen lower middle school
teaching nationwide by providing for development of teaching services
in 15 provinces and autonomous regions, focusing on 124 teacher
training institutions and on provincial and county education bureaus.
It will thereby focus on a critical segment of the education system,
lower middle school teaching services, and will consist of three major
elements: institutional, management and quality enhancement. The
institutional element will address operational needs at the teacher
training institutions through facilities upgrading, provision of
instructional equipment, spares and consumables, library development,
and staff upgrading, mainly in-country. The management element will
develop general teaching system management capabilities at the
central, provincial and institutional levels through staff training and
specialist services. The selection and assignment of teachers will be
aided by the development of teacher information systems and by
training for their use. The quality enhancement element will include
teaching methodology core seminars, pilot programs and innovation
programs. The primary objective of the core seminars and pilot
programs will be to expose teacher trainers to new ideas, after which
they will apply them within the Chinese context. The innovation
programs will permit provinces, institutions and individuals to propose
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
projects of an experimental, innovative or developmental nature, to be
supported by modest inputs (maximum $50,000 each) of funds
provided under the project.
Benefits:              The project will build on the existing strengths in the Chinese
education system and assist in providing teaching services of higher
quality, primarily through improved teacher training and strengthened
management.  It will provide more opportunities for essential
laboratory work, books and reading places in libraries, more effective
language training, and extensive staff development at teacher training
institutions. Training under the project will also improve teacher
college management. At the provincial and county levels, selection,
assignment and utilization of teachers will be assisted by management
development programs, particularly through the proposed teacher
information systems. Finally, programs for improvement of teaching
will be introduced and tested, giving exposure to new approaches and
opportunities to experiment with innovations. These benefits are
expected to affect virtually all teacher trainers and trainees in the
participating provinces.
Risks:                 There are operational risks inherent in the implementation of a project
reaching 124 teacher training institutions and 15 provincial offices.
There are also questions whether the capacity building aimed at
improved management of teaching and teacher training systems will
fully achieve its targets, and whether the teacher information systems
will be utilized as envisaged. These risks will be addressed by a
structure of project management that combines the varied
administrative and professional requirements of the end-users of
project inputs with the proven strong project implementation
capabilities of the SEdC. The participating institutions, provinces and
SEdC have, furthermore, been continuously involved in discussions
during project development. Thirdly, the effective introduction of
new methods and independently conceived innovations will require
careful oversight and monitoring. An Innovation Assessment Group
has been formed for that purpose.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:LA                                  Local    Foreign    Total
---------- ($ million) ---
Facilities Upgrading                           78.0       0.0      78.0
Instructional Equipment                        67.5      32.6     100.1
Library Development                             4.0       3.9       8.0
Staff Upgrading                                 2.5       1.7       4.2
National Management Development                   *       0.3       0.3
Provincial Management Development               0.1       0.3       0.4
Teacher Information System                      3.9       3.4       7.3
Core Seminars                                   0.3       0.1       0.4
Pilot Programs                                  0.1         *       0.1
Innovation Programs                             4.0       1.6       5.6
,B,ase Cost                         160.4     43.9     20413
Physical contingencies                          12.5      3.4      15.9
Price contingencies                            32.0       4.2      36.2
Total Financing Required                               254
Financing Plan:
Government
National                                      53.0       0.0      53.0
Provincial                                   103.4       0.0     103.4
IDA                                            48.4      51.6     100.0
Totl                               204.8      5L.6    256.4
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY                              1994   1995    1996   1997   1998   1999
-------------------- ($ million) -------------
Annual                              26.4   35.9   21.4   12.4    3.0    0.9
Cumulative                          26.4   62.3   83.7   96.1   99.1  100.0
La Project-financed goods are exempted from import duties and taxes.
* Less than 0.05.
Note: Throughout this report, totals may fail to correspond because of rounding.






- iv -
CONTENTS
1     The Education Sector and Teacher Training  ..................                      1
Introduction and Background ..........................                       1
Sectoral Issues ...................................                         4
Government Strategy ...............................                         6
Bank Group Strategy ...............................                         7
Previous Bank Group Experience in the Sector ...............                7
Lessons Learned  .................................                          8
2     Project Background  ..................................                             9
Key Issues  .....................................                           9
Opportunities for Benefit ............................                      9
Objectives  .....................................                          10
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement ....................                  10
3     Description of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
The Institutional Element .11
Facilities Upgrading .11
Instructional Equipment .12
Library Development .12
Staff Upgrading .13
The Management Element .13
The Quality Enhancement Element .15
Teaching Methodology Core Seminars .15
Pilot Programs .16
Innovation Program .16
Technical Assistance .17
Evaluation of Teaching Services .17
Environmental Aspects and Program Objective Categories                     17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in August/September
1992. Mission members were Richard M. Durstine, (Senior Educator EA2EH, task
manager), Eileen Nkwanga (Senior Educator, AF4PH), Mohammed Allak (Human Resources
Economist, ASTPH, consultant), Halsey Beemer (Education Specialist, ASTPH, consultant)
and Dingyoung Hou (Project Officer, RMC). Substantial contributions to project design and
preparation were also made by James Lynch (Educator, ASTPH), Brian Smith (Computer
Systems Specialist, MN2TC) and Winnie Y. Young (Data Base Consultant). Peer reviewers
were Linda Dove (Senior Educator, ASTPH), Himelda Martinez (Senior Educator, PHREE)
and Leon Miller (Senior Economist, EA2EH). Cost tables were prepared by Linda Mih.
Clerical services were provided by Theodosia Karmiris and Imani Haidara. The responsible
Division Chief is Zafer Ecevit, and the Department Director is Shahid Javed Burki.



v 
4      Project Costs and Financing                .............................             18
Project  Costs   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Financing Plan .......... .  .  ..       . .............. .  .  .. .    .      19
5      Project Implementation  ......... .  .  .  .  .    .......... .  .  .. .  .  .    .  21
Status of Project Preparation and Implementation Plan  .      ........    .   21
Management of Project Implementation  .....   .        ......... .  .  .    .  21
Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  21
Disbursements .......... .  .. .         . .............. .  .  .. .    .     22
Monitoring of Project Implementation  .....   .       .......... .  .  .    .  25
6      Benefits and Risks  .......... .  .. .       .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .. .    .  26
Benefits ...........  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   .  26
Risks ........................................ .                              26
7      Agreements Reached and Recommendation  .....   .             .......... .   .    .  28
Agreements .................................... .                             28
Condition of Effectiveness  ........  .     .  .    ......... .  .  .  .  .  .    .  29
Recommendation  ......... .         .. .  .    ............ .   .  .  .  ..    .  29
ANNEXES
1.     Statistics Indicative of the Recent Growth of Educational Services in China .       30
2.    Responsibility for Basic Education at Various Levels    .          .36
3.     Strategy Statement Regarding LMS Teaching and Teachers  .            .37
4.     Summary of Bank Group Assisted Education Projects in China .           .43
5.     Summary of Support of Teacher Training by Bank Group and Government .               48
6.     Social and Educational Characteristics of Project Provinces  .       .49
7.    Education System Data for the Project Provinces    ..50
8.     Plans for Upgrading of Teacher College Facilities      ..53
9.     Instructional Equipment ......... .        .. .  .    ............ .  .  .  .  ..    .  54
10.   Library Books and Equipment ........ .          .  .  .  .    ......... .  .  .  .  .  .    .  57
11.   Technical Assistance Summary  ........ .          .  .  .    .........  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  61
12.   Teacher Information Systems  .. . . . .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
13.   Teaching Methodology Core Seminars ....... .            . ........... .    .  .    .  76
14.   Operating Criteria for Innovation Programs Under the Project .        .......   .    81
15.   Performance Measures for Project Implementation  ... .          .......... .    .    86
16.   Monitoring and Evaluation Scheme ....... .         .  .    ........... .  .  .  .    .  89
17.   Project Cost Estimates  ......... .        .. .    ............. .    .  .  .. .    .  92
18.   Allocation of Project Funds Among Provinces .....   .         .......... .   .    .  99
19.   Implementation Timetable  ......... .         .  .  .    .......... .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  100
20.   Design of Project Implementation ........  .       .  .    ......... .  .  .  .  .  .    .  101
21.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule  ....... .         .    ..1.0.5....... .  .  .  .  .    .  lOS



- vi -
Documents Available in the Project File  ...........................                                        106
Key to Map: Lower Middle School Teacher Training Institutions Included in Project                           107
MAP
IBRD  No. 24221   .........................................                                                 108
TABLES iN TEXT
4.1     Summary of Project Costs by Component ......................                                         18
4.2     Summary of Project Costs by Category  .......................                                        19
4.3     Financing Plan   ......................................                                              20
5.1     Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  ................                                       23
5.2     Estimated Disbursement  ................................                                             24
5.3 Disbursement Arrangements .24






THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND TEACHER TRAINING
Introduction and Background
1.1           Education plays a central role in China's development and modernization. The
education sector is currently characterized by changes which reflect decentralization and
increasing responsiveness to labor markets. With variations because of provincial diversity,
decentralization is taking place in curricula, examinations and operational control of all aspects
of education. One of the major goals is achievement of nine years universal basic education
(UBE) for all children as soon as is practical. I/ It is understood that this will not happen
nationally until early in the twenty-first century, though it is already close to reality in many
cities. Compared with many developing countries, China has been very successful in providing
schooling for its people, with more than 95 percent of those aged 6 to 11 years enrolled in
primary school and 60 percent of those aged 12 to 15 years in secondary school. As a result,
literacy rates are higher than in most countries with similar levels of economic development.
It is estimated that the literacy rate for those 15 years of age and older is over 77 percent. (It
is close to 90 percent among the 15 to 25 year age group.) This is an impressive achievement
for a country with nearly 80 percent rural population. In recent years, qualitative improvements
have taken place in all parts of the education system, especially with regard to higher and
technical education. University enrollments grew significantly in the early 1980s, but have
recently stabilized through deliberate policy in order to concentrate on improvements in quality.
The Government has been committed to strengthening the capability to train skilled manpower
and to develop research capacity within the universities and technical institutes. At all levels,
Chinese schools are well organized, teachers are diligent, textbooks are widely available and
effort is made to upgrade curricula and improve teaching methods.
1.2           Teachers, as managers of the inputs to education, are the pivotal element in its
success. Their importance is heightened by the high cost of their training relative to that of other
educational inputs, their long tenure of service and their role as coordinators in the process of
change. Provision of teachers for primary schools (grades 1 through 6) is already fairly well
accomplished. The Government now seeks assistance to strengthen teacher development
nationwide for lower middle schools (LMS, grades 7 through 9, of standard ages 12 through 14).
This initiative is of economic importance, because LMS schooling has proved to be a level
increasingly required by employers for any jobs above the simplest. Extension of LMS
education to a nationwide base and provision of trained teachers for it are therefore urgently
needed.
1/  Some statistics indicative of the recent growth of educational services in China are presented in
Annex 1.



- 2 -
1.3           Teacher Supply and Demand. The dramatic increase in enrollments at all
levels of Chinese education over the past few decades has been reflected in a corresponding
growth in the number of teachers. Their provision has been possible only through use of
community-supported (i.e., not government-funded) teachers (mainly in primary schools) and
those not adequately trained (at all levels). At the primary school level, nationwide, some
45 percent of teachers were community sponsored in 1986. In the LMSs, almost 79 percent or
teachers were unqualified in 1985. For higher middle school (HMS, grades 10 through 12), the
corresponding number was nearly 60 percent. Even though the qualitative aspects of teaching
are of primary importance, quantitative matters cannot be overlooked. The issue of teacher
supply is one of building on the present situation toward a more qualified teaching force, by
training new teachers and retraining those already in service. Projection of future teacher need
is sensitive to variables which are difficult to predict or control. For long-standing social
reasons, each province is self-sufficient for the supply of its own teachers, and there is no
significant interprovincial movement. Analysis for purposes of planning must therefore take
place at the provincial level. Similarly, little exchange between urban and rural locations is
expected. Projections beyond a few years are difficult, because of their sensitivity to class size
and attrition rate. The planning problem is compounded by the need to consider not only total
numbers, but also a suitable mix among fields of specialty. All these considerations challenge
the quantitative planning for and the implementation of an adequate supply of teachers.
Distinctions must also be drawn between qualified and unqualified teachers, regular appointees
and substitute teachers, and officially appointed and community sponsored teachers. LMS
enrollment is expected to rise from 39.9 million in 1991 to 54.9 million in 2000 as its coverage
becomes more general. National estimates indicate an increase from 2.5 million teachers (at the
present average of 15.9 teachers per student) to 3.3 million (at a projected average of 16.6).
The present figures are, however, highly variable among locations. In 1991, student/teacher
ratios were 13.2 in urban areas, 15.9 at county level, and 16.5 in rural areas. Among provinces,
they ranged from 13.5 to 18.0. These numbers need to be developed further, followed closely
through time, and the quantitative needs for teacher training developed on that basis.  It
nevertheless seems clear, with 130,000 presently graduating annually from LMS teacher training
institutions, that some expansion will be necessary, and that the requirements for in-service
teacher training will continue to be great.
1.4           Teaching Methodology and Practice. Two aspects of teaching in China must
be considered: first, what teaching is intended to be, and secondly, what happens in practice.
Being markedly different from the usual norms of Western teaching, Chinese classroom practice
has both supporters and detractors.  It is typical that: the teacher is the central source of
knowledge and an authoritative figure; teaching is a performing art and rote learning is common;
textbooks and official teacher guides dominate classroom activities; and transmission of
knowledge is the central aim. These are very general statements, and the facts vary from case
to case. Conditions in rural schools often militate against good teaching quality. These include
student home backgrounds, low staff standards, and deficient facilities and equipment. Student
home effects include parental poverty, education and occupation, home chores (heavier for girls)
and overage students. Formal staff qualifications and remuneration are closely linked. In more
prosperous locations, the differences between urban and rural practice are not so marked. There
are examples of good practice in both settings, but there is little use of modern instructional
technology.
1.5           In China, education is seen as a pathway to success both by tradition and in the
reality of modern life. It is natural, therefore, that promotion from primary school to LMS,



-3-
hence to HMS and finally to university is a matter of great competition. Since promotion
depends almost solely on scoring well on standardized examinations taken at key points of one's
school career, high performance on these has great importance. Schooling in China is therefore
driven by these standardized examinations to a large extent. The resulting problems are easily
recognized, but their resolution is not simple.
1.6           The Training of Teachers. As a rule, pre-service training of primary school
teachers takes place in normal schools, that of LMS teachers in normal colleges (NC), and that
of HMS teachers in normal universities (NU). Normal schools are secondary level institutions
which admit entrants with nine grades of general education and provide three years of subject
matter and pedagogical training. NCs are post-secondary institutions which provide two or three
years of teacher training. NUs are full four-year higher education institutions leading to a
degree. Some train both LMS and HMS teachers. All of the preceding are residential
institutions. Entry into NCs and NUs is integrally connected with the selection of students for
higher education in general, based on a national examination taken in the final year of HMS.
At that time, the student indicates in priority order the colleges and universities of his or her
choice. After the examination, applicants are selected according to their marks, their expressed
choices and the availability of institutional places. It is understood in NCs and NUs that the
student will return to their home region to teach once training is completed. The supply of rural
teachers is therefore augmented by inducements aimed at encouraging applications by rural
candidates and special provisions for their acceptance into teacher training.
1.7           Since 1985, reforms in teacher training practice have been mandated or
encouraged by the State Education Commission (SEdC). Compulsory components of the courses
have been reduced to 85 percent of the total, the remaining 15 percent going to academic
extension options and to practical studies related to the communities where the trainees will
teach. Methods of teaching are sought which involve students more actively. Out-of-class clubs
and similar activities are encouraged. In the NCs and NUs about 75 percent of the compulsory
hours are allotted to study of the major subject specialization. The great majority of this time
is given to substantive subject content and only a small part to subject specific teaching
methodology. General pedagogy and psychology are also not heavily covered. It has been the
tradition for middle school teachers to have one specialization only. Many middle schools have
relatively few students, however, and institutions preparing LMS teachers are now encouraged
to train them in two subjects. Some NCs offer a two-year course, and others a three-year
course. Effective response to the need for teachers with two specializations is easier for three-
year than for two-year colleges.
1.8           Teacher training methodology is now coming under greater scrutiny by the
responsible authorities, as are the time allocation requirements of the teacher training curriculum.
Need for more attention to delivery method is noted, as is that for diversification of subject area
specialties. A shift of attention is taking place from emphasis on knowledge to development of
student abilities. Nonetheless, the lecture method is still dominant in both schools and teacher
training institutions. NCs draw staff from major universities and from among superior practicing
teachers. Teacher training institutions identify their needs for new staff, and the provincial
government where they operate determines the number to be recruited each year. Staff are then
selected by the training institutions from pre-approved universities, based on interviews there.
Because of the changing requirements of teacher training, inter alia, the training of teacher
trainers is an issue of great importance.



- 4 -
1.9            National policy provides for six weeks of practice teaching for NC and NU
students. Most institutions provide students with opportunities to observe teaching in middle
school classrooms before they engage in actual teaching practice. In general, there is agreement
that the practice teaching period is insufficient, but extending it is difficult. Disruption at the
host school, teacher trainee supervision and lodging at the host school are all parts of the
problem.
1.10          Teacher Careers. Teachers in China usually remain in one position for their
whole working life. Expectations of salary, working conditions and social status naturally have
an effect on the decision to enter the teaching profession. LMS and HMS completers do not
have a great multiplicity of career options, and once assignment to a career and a position is
made, it tends to be permanent. The process of job selection begins early in one's schooling,
based on academic performance and the needs of the country for workers, and it continues
throughout the schooling process. Career is often more the choice of the system than of the
individual. Teaching recruits designated for rural, remote or minority population areas are
sometimes assigned for a fixed term  and receive special benefits while there.  The bulk
(80 percent to 90 percent) of teachers in training are from such areas, but these also account for
some 80 percent of the population. The fastest growing need for new teachers is also in rural
areas, which accentuates the shortage of qualified teachers there. To the extent feasible, students
are expected to return to teach near to their place of origin. Of those who complete teacher
training, the preponderance go into teaching. It is, however, evident that some qualified teachers
leave the profession before retirement. County and township schools in the rural areas are the
most severely affected, and the teachers who are leaving are typically the better educated ones.
1.11          Low teacher salaries go hand in hand with the low status attributed to the
profession. On balance, it appears that teaching in China has an image problem. There is,
however, no performance-based reason why teacher status should be poor. Teacher absenteeism
is low, and their work is diligent. Salary and perquisites, especially housing-in which teachers
fare less well than many other professions-have much to do with the profession's low status.
Issues of status and salary discourage many from entering teaching and it is the brighter and
more enterprising teachers who leave to seek a better future elsewhere. The rural areas are of
course the most at risk in this situation.
Sectoral Issues
1 .12         Issues of varying importance and urgency inhere in the state of affairs outlined
above. Together they form a context within which to identify the major problems which need
to be addressed when seeking to improve the supply, training, performance, and careers of
teachers. They therefore comprise the basis for selection of activities included in the project.
1.13          Teacher Supply and Demand.  The estimation and management of teacher
demand are complex tasks. Estimates of needed total teacher training capacity, including both
pre-service and in-service training, must thus be geared to expected rates of entry into and
attrition from teaching, and be based on projections of enrollments, teacher loading and class
size. Experience has shown that all such calculations must be made and applied at the provincial
level or lower, based on decentralized responsibilities and on a growing commitment to effective
management. There is thus a need for responsive and accurate information systems, down to
the provincial level and below, to measure the supply of and demand for teachers. They will
deal with year-by-year planning for teacher supply and require a horizon of accuracy at least as



-5 -
long as the time needed to select, train and assign a teacher. Development of central and
provincial level teacher information systems needs to take place concurrently with creation of
more effective planning and management systems. School managers, including principals, need
to be trained in the process of teacher force planning.
1.14          Teaching Methodology and Practice. Chinese schools are effective in most
respects, and they represent a considered response to the needs of society. The work they do
is not to be dismissed lightly, nor is radical change either necessary or desirable. The demands
of the modern world, however, place changing requirements on all schooling systems, including
the Chinese. Revisions to teaching content and method are therefore needed and should be based
on national and local development needs, while respecting the strengths which have been built
up in the past and recognizing the realities which constrain action.  The purpose of any
qualitative change in teaching or teacher training should be to open up options, not to make
prescriptions. Ways should be sought to reduce the effect of examinations on the content and
practice of schooling. The importance of a credential for further schooling or for a job should
not be allowed to drive out those relevant educational topics which are not easily examined.
Such issues will not be readily resolved, but should be addressed in curriculum development,
instructional methodology and teacher training.
1.15          The Training of Teachers. The challenges to teacher education have both
quantitative and qualitative dimensions. Flexibility in training capacity is required to supply the
needed numbers of qualified teachers. Both pre-service and in-service training need to be
effectively utilized and should not be treated as two separate systems of training. The capacity
for training in more than one specialization should be expanded and possibilities for further
flexibility sought. The division of instructional time among subject matter content, presentation
and pedagogy should be reconsidered in favor of more general psychology and pedagogy.
Three-year teacher training programs can more effectively meet these requirements, and a return
to (or retention of) three years of training for LMS teachers is to be preferred. Classroom,
library and laboratory space needs to be more adequately provided and its utilization more
efficiently programmed on an institution-by-institutionbasis. Teaching practice should be moved
out of the final year of training to a more even distribution across the training experience.
Continued efforts should be made to supply teachers more equitably to disadvantaged areas.
1.16          Teacher Careers. The overriding career issue is appointment of teachers to
rural areas and their continuation in posts there. An adequate supply of such teachers remains
a problem, exacerbated by a tendency to move from rural places to towns and cities.
Improvements in salaries and working conditions, to the extent possible, are called for. All
efforts need to be made to create a positive attraction for teaching jobs in the less favored
locations. The way the teaching profession is viewed by teachers and prospective teachers is
likewise a matter of concern. The rate and nature of teacher attrition needs to be fully studied
and documented with regard to its magnitude, teacher age, qualification, subject specialty,
location and reason for leaving teaching. This is another task for the information systems which
need to be developed. There are two matters for attention here: ability to predict attrition, and
remedies for that attrition.
1.17          Management of Teacher Supply and Training. All of the above issues place
demands on the management of teachers, of their training and of their assignment. The issues
will be properly attended to only if there is deliberate management action applied consistently
over a substantial period of time. The issues are neither simple nor transient. They concern



- 6 -
various interrelated aspects of selecting, training and utilizing teachers.  They impact the
different levels and aspects of the management system which controls Chinese education. This
situation thus presents a challenge for information gathering and management development.
Government Strategy
1.18          The publication, in May 1985, of the "Decision to Restructure the Education
System" marked the most significant reform in Chinese education since 1949 and called for:
universalization of nine years of basic education; expansion of vocational and technical education
at the secondary and post-secondary levels; increased enrollment in and autonomy of higher
education institutions; and strengthened education sector leadership at all levels. That decision
was followed by the Compulsory Education Law of 1986. Under it, nine year UBE was to be
achieved in stages: in the cities and coastal areas by 1990; in towns and villages with a medium
level of development by 1995; and in more backward areas at a rate commensurate with their
economic development. At the same time, responsibility for providing basic education was
delegated to the local governments (see Annex 2). The SEdC was created in June 1986 as the
successor agency to the Ministry of Education and is responsible nationally for policy, budgeting
and coordination in this sector. It therefore has the mission of overseeing the above reforms at
the national level.
l.19          It is within the above context that the present effort to improve and develop LMS
teacher training takes place. The drive toward UBE has progressed much further in the first six
grades of schooling than in the subsequent three, and the need to strengthen the LMS level is
now being addressed. The provision of appropriately trained teachers is seen as the pivotal
element. The goal of strengthened educational leadership is also important in this connection.
SEdC is, in substantial agreement with the issues raised above, giving special emphasis to those
related to rural teachers, to quality of teacher trainees, to teaching methods (with stress on
practice and reduction of excessive attention to theory), to improved equipment and facilities and
to education system management. The need to coordinate pre-service with in-service teacher
training more closely is recognized. The Government's emphasis on teacher development is
confirmed by the allocation of special funds for this purpose under the Eighth Five-Year Plan
(1991-95) by the National People's Congress. It is further evidenced by identification of the
following topics for special attention during the Plan period: standardization of teacher training
operating conditions; rationalization of teacher training system management; further educational
reforms, including those in teaching methodology and with emphasis on applications; increased
quality of teaching staff; improved textbooks and teaching materials; and the continued physical
development of teacher training institution campuses. There is, inter alia, also attention to
quality improvement and a strong trend toward decentralization of curriculum, textbooks,
management and examinations. A strategy statement regarding LMS teaching and teachers has
been prepared (Annex 3) and discussed with the Association. At negotiations, agreements were
reached that the project will be carried out in accordance with the strategy statement.
1.20          Some related matters impinge on the Government's efforts to strengthen teacher
training at the LMS level. Enrollment in post-secondary educational institutions is effectively
frozen for 1991-95 and growth will be limited to about 3 percent yearly in the 1996-2000 period.
This will constrain quantitative expansion for the time being, and promote stress on efficiency
and quality in meeting teacher supply and training needs. At the same time, some of the smaller
higher educational institutions are being phased out for the sake of efficiency. A general revision



-7 -
of basic education textbooks is now in progress. This includes the introduction of several newly
developed sets of books focused on specific populations, such as those in advanced coastal areas,
rural or mountainous regions and bilingual communities. These books are now undergoing pilot
testing and are expected to be adopted nationally beginning with the first grade in 1993. All
teachers are expected to receive training in the use of the new materials. The Association is
supporting this effort through a $57 million credit (Credit 2006-CHA) for the Textbook
Development Project, approved in 1989.
Bank Group Strategy
1.21         The Bank Group is in general agreement with the directions taken by China in
development of its education system at all levels. It seeks to provide support to this process by
maintaining a dialogue on sectoral issues and options, and by supporting selected activities which
contribute to the efficiency and quality of that system and to its relevance to national
development objectives. In order to facilitate achievement of these ends, the Association will:
(a)    give attention to efficiency of resource use, including utilization of teachers and
facilities, a more critical approach to vocational education programs at the
secondary level, and rationalization of higher education;
(b)    seek more equitable funding mechanisms, targeted at basic education in poor
rural communities; and
(c)    support institution building to strengthen the capacity of education authorities at
all levels to carry out their responsibilities, especially under conditions of
increasing operational decentralization.
The Association also supports developments in the education system regarding matters such as
educational opportunities for females and environmental improvement.
Previous Bank Group Experience in the Sector
1.22         Since 1981, the Bank Group has supported 14 projects in China which either
were devoted entirely to the education sector or had substantial education sector components.
These are summarized in Annex 4. The total loan and credit amount for education was
$1,189.8 million.  In the early 1980s, four successive higher education projects assisted
expansion and quality improvements in prominent universities, mainly the key universities
managed by SEdC, the television universities and the larger provincially operated universities.
Since 1985, IDA has assisted the Government in its effort to increase the provision of textbooks,
to upgrade LMS teachers and to improve conditions in vocational schools. It has also financed
a project in the relatively disadvantaged province of Gansu, managed by the provincial
government, part of which addresses the education sector. Most recently, support has been
given to education at the municipal level in three medium-sized cities, to key science and
engineering laboratories and to education in selected poor counties in six provinces.
1.23         Sector studies related to education finance were issued in 1986 and 1991. One
on technical/vocational education was done in 1987, and informal sector work on teacher training
was carried out in 1991.  These, combined with extensive experience in preparing and



supervising projects over the past decade, provide considerable background for identification of
sectoral needs and opportunities.
Lessons Learned
1.24          Three recent projects have addressed teacher training.   The Provincial
Universities Development Project (Credit 1671-CHA, FY86) assists selected programs in 28
normal universities among its 60 project institutions. The Teacher Training Project supports
in-service training for LMS teachers. The Education Development in Poor Provinces Project
(Credit 2339-CHA, FY92), in the course of generally upgrading educational services in selected
poor counties, also gives attention to teacher preparation. These projects have, inter alia,
demonstrated the contributions of instructional equipment of an appropriate level, of equipment
spares and maintenance, of increased library utilization, of in-country development of faculty
resources, of better institutional management, of increased student/teacher ratios, of independent
learning methods, of strengthened provincial and national capacity to plan quantitatively and
qualitatively for teacher demand, and of continuing development of implementation capabilities.
The present project incorporates all of these lessons. Past experience has also alerted provincial
governments to the importance of issues such as class size and teacher loading which now need
to be developed and dealt with on a local basis using the information handling capacity to be
developed under the project.  University capabilities strengthened under past projects have
provided the means to deliver extensive in-country training under this project.
1.25          The Bank's education lending in China has resulted in a close working
relationship with SEdC. That body is responsible to recommend government policy in the
education sector and to oversee implementation once it has been approved by the central
authorities. Actual responsibility for that implementation and for financing educational activities,
however, lies with government bodies at provincial and lower levels, except for the operation
of certain universities of national scope. The role of SEdC is otherwise coordinative and
advisory. It also provides the fora through which lower administrative levels in the education
sector exchange information  and discuss mutual concerns.   In addition, it provides
implementation services for Bank Group projects, and through time has proved effective in this
role. Both SEdC and the corresponding agencies at provincial and lower levels, however,
continue to require development of their personnel, particularly with regard to technical and
management tasks. That is provided for in the project.



-9 -
2
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Key Issues
2.1          The issues identified above (paras. 1.13-1.17) provide a foundation for the
project. Each is important and deserves serious attention. It is neither necessary nor practical,
however, to give in-depth attention to all of them at once. The project will give comprehensive
response in those areas deemed to be of priority importance.
2.2          Quantitative issues relating to teacher supply and demand are highly important
in the long run, but they are not urgent. The pace of requirements for new teachers changes
slowly, and expansion plans for NCs and NUs are presently very limited. Dealing directly with
them can therefore await development of appropriate planning, management and information
handling capacities within the provincial education bureaus. Immediate importance must be
attached, however, to development of those capacities. Regarding teaching methodology and
practice, the need for continuing effort to introduce modern techniques, as has already begun,
requires support. This will be done in the project by organized exposure to, and testing of, new
ideas which will then be assessed for their appropriateness for general introduction in China.
In observing and evaluating innovations originated outside the country, it will be essential to
maintain that which is positive about the present way of doing things. Opportunities for
innovation will be encouraged and the dissemination of successful results provided for.
2.3           The training of teachers provides the third major area of focus and the materially
largest element of the project. Instructional equipment and training in its use will be provided,
as will general upgrading of staff in the participating institutions. The capability to deal with
existing demand for teacher training will therefore be increased, and the flexibility to cope with
future demand simultaneously enhanced.  Innovations regarding teacher careers will be
encouraged. Finally, issues relating to the management of teacher supply and training run
throughout the above. They are central to all aspects of improving the provision and utilization
of teachers by the education system, and will be addressed directly by the project.
Opportunities for Benefit
2.4          Now is an opportune time to introduce a project devoted to improvement of
teaching at the LMS level. The Government is concerned with the issues outlined above,
national policy is being directed at resolving them, and special financial resources are being
provided by the Government. The LMS teacher training issue will be addressed on a national
scale by combining Association resources with those of SEdC and the provinces. Within that
context, the project will concentrate on the needs in 15 provinces and autonomous regions
(Sichuan, Shandong, Jilin, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Liaoning, Anhui, Hebei, Heilongjiang,
Henan, Guangxi, Fujian, Hainan, Nei Mongol). It will provide for qualitative improvements



- 10 -
in teacher training capacity at virtually all of the NCs and NUs in those provinces. Eight of the
project provinces (Hebei, Nei Mongol, Anhu., Jiangxi, Henan, Guangxi, Hainan and Sichuan),
with a total population of some 420 million persons, are below the national average in per capita
income. In addition, each project province has disadvantaged areas for which teachers will be
explicitly recruited and trained. The needs of the remaining provinces will be covered over the
next several years by independent provision of central Government funds and direct provincial
action. The need for LMS teacher training will thus be addressed nationally. The Government
has provided a summary statement as to how teacher training is being given financial support
throughout the country (Annex 5), and at negotiations provided assurances that it will support
with its own resources the strengthening of LMS teacher training in provinces not covered by the
project consistent with the project's objectives.
Objectives
2.5           The project's main objective is to contribute to improved learning at the LMS
level by providing for better teaching services, including instructional methodology, teacher
training and better management of teacher training and assignment. In assisting a range of
teacher delivery services, the project will have three functional objectives: (a) improve quality
of LMS teacher training through better physical inputs, management and staff training;
(b) increase management and planning capabilities for teacher selection, training and assignment
at national, provincial and lower levels; and (c) facilitate innovative activities in teaching and
teacher training. The project will therefore address several key qualitative aspects of providing
teaching and teacher training at the LMS level. The quantitative dimension of planning for
teacher provision will in due course be addressed by application of the proposed teacher
information system to be introduced under the project.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
2.6           The Government has requested the Association's support to develop teaching
resources for its LMSs. The Bank Group is familiar with the issues of teacher training from its
previous projects and from sector work. There is concurrence on the major issues to be
addressed, and counterpart resources are ready for mobilization. The project will support the
strategic goals of building an education system appropriate to modern needs, promoting its
adaptability to change, introducing initiatives aimed at improved teaching quality, decentralizing
control of teaching services, training teachers for rural areas, and developing necessary
management capabilities. It will build on the experience of past projects, with a focus on the
LMS  level.  It is made timely by recent Government policy directions (including:
decentralization of curricula, textbooks and examinations; teaching more closely geared to
individual student abilities; greater attention to the supply of qualified teachers to remote areas;
and efforts to provide improved management and information systems). It will therefore provide
support to initiatives aimed at improved teaching quality, decentralized control of teaching
services, training of teachers for rural areas and improved management capacity. Given the
expected national impact through replication of its basic features, the project will be a strategic
vehicle for achieving IDA's objective of human resource development in poor regions. These
efforts are made particularly appropriate by the scope of impact of the project, which will reach
teacher training institutions with an enrollment of 205,000 and provincial offices serving a total
population of more than 760 million.



- 11 -
3
DESCRIPTION OF TIE PROJECT
3.1          The project will help to strengthen LMS teaching nationwide by providing for
development of teaching services in 15 provinces and autonomous regions, focusing on 124
teacher training institutions and on provincial and county education bureaus (hereafter, the
project institutions). It will thereby address a well-defined slice, namely LMS teaching services,
of the entire education system. Summary statistics of the education system in the participating
provinces are given in Annex 6. The total number of NCs in the participating provinces is 115,
though some are too small to be viable and thus require closing, merger or other modification.
It is also planned to assist those NUs which have one third or more of their trainees in two or
three year courses (and therefore are destined for LMS teaching) and which have not received
Bank Group assistance previously (Annex 7). Based on studies and discussions carried out in
the course of its preparation, the project has been designed to address existing issues in terms
of their importance, urgency and potential for positive resolution. In meeting the objectives
stated in para. 2.5, the project will, over a period of five years, provide assistance through: an
institutional element supporting directly the delivery of teacher training at NCs and NUs in the
participating provinces; a management element dealing with the need for better operational
control of the supply and training of teachers; and a quality enhancement element fostering
improvements, innovations and reforms in teaching and teacher education.
The Institutional Element
3.2          This component will, first, include facilities upgrading, to be provided by
provincial and local education authorities, mainly to support better the needs of their present
student populations. In addition, the project will provide instructional equipment according to
a list of requirements prepared by Sedc, from which participating teacher training institutions
will be able to select according to their individual needs. Funds for purchase of adequate spares
and consumables will also be included in the budget of the project. Provision will be made for
training of teaching, technical and administrative staff in the use of that equipment. Library
development will be supported, and training will be provided for library staff. Finally, a
program of staff upgrading for teacher training institutions will be supported through a number
of in-country and overseas fellowships.
Facilities Upgrading
3.3          (Base cost $78.0 million). The provincial governments will carry out civil works
for new construction and rehabilitation of LMS teaching facilities at institutions assisted by the
project. This will follow the plan and proposed budgets submitted for the project by the
provinces. These have been reviewed by the Association and found acceptable. A summary of
those submissions is presented in Annex 8, and further details giving plans institution-by-
institution are included in the project file.



- 12 -
Instructional Equipment
3.4           Instructional Equipment Purchase (base cost $78.3 million, plus $14.1 million
for local insurance and freight to be paid from Government funds). Instructional equipment to
be provided under the project will be allocated to institutions based on criteria related to college
size, course programs and current holdings, according to surveys already carried out and visits
made by a panel of local experts assembled by SEdC. A catalog of teaching equipment essential
for all colleges, drawn up by the panel after consultation with participating institutions, will be
used as the basis for selection by the institutions of equipment to fit their needs. The catalogue
contains approved equipment across 13 categories to a total value of over Y 5.0 million per
college, a figure which has been used together with other factors to determine the level of
finance for equipment. It covers materials and equipment needed for teaching in LMSs and
excludes purely research equipment. SEdC has updated its record of the equipment stocks held
by all the colleges, including their value and the write-off value of any unusable stock. The
allocation of funds from the project for purchase of equipment will be on an equitable basis and
will not favor four-year over three-year institutions. All of these provisions and conditions,
which have been discussed with IDA and found acceptable, taken together will provide for a
thorough coverage of the equipment needs of the NCs.  The physical basis required for
performance of all experiments and exercises called for by the curriculum will therefore be
provided and the quality of training available in the NCs correspondingly increased. At the same
time, the project will contribute, inter alia, to satisfaction of the requirements for teacher training
in disadvantaged areas of the project provinces.  Further information on the instructional
equipment component is provided in Annex 9.
3.5           Spares and Consumables (base cost $6.2 million). Provision will be made by
the participating institutions for all operating costs of using the equipment provided to them.
Initial purchase of necessary spares and supplies, to cover a period of about two years, will be
included under the project. The provinces and institutions will be responsible for this supply
thereafter. At negotiations, agreements were reached that each project institution be provided
with and make use of sufficientfunds, spare parts and supplies to maintain in good operating
condition the equipment financed under the project.
3.6           Training for Equipment Use (base cost $1.5 million). The procurement of
instructional equipment by colleges will be supported by training, phased over the life of the
project, of both professional and technical staff in the use of that equipment. A total of 740
laboratory directors, 760 laboratory technicians and 500 laboratory administrative staff will
receive short courses. An overseas study tour of three weeks duration will be arranged for a
small number of laboratory directors.
Library Development
3.7           Stock and Equipment (base cost $7.8 million). SEdC has conducted a survey
of the current library holdings, staffing and equipment of the 124 participating institutions, of
the services offered and of physical improvements proposed. The latter include a proposed
program of library construction to be included in the civil works provided under the project.
Reading places are also to be increased from approximately 48,000, or roughly one reading place
for every four students, to 65,850 places, or about one place for every three students.
Depending on existing stock, the project will also support the purchase of additional books and
journals, including foreign language materials in such fields as science, technology and teaching



- 13 -
methods. This plan of action has been reviewed by the Association and found acceptable.
Further information on the library development component is provided in Annex 10.
3.8           Library Technical Assistance (base cost $0.2 million). The project will support
the training of a substantial proportion of the library staff of the participating institutions and the
upgrading of services to become more dynamic and interactive. Foreign experts will be engaged
to lead seminars on such issues as computerization in libraries, multi-media developments and
reader services. In addition, an international study tour will be arranged for key library staff
to visit, and in some cases to shadow, staff in established libraries in other countries.
Staff Upgrading
3.9           (Base cost $4.2 million). An extensive program of staff upgrading, both in-
country and overseas, will be provided under the project. Nearly 4,500 years of in-country
training reaching over 6,000 participants will be carried out through three-year, one-year and
short-term courses. Overseas training will be provided through 135 one-year fellowships, for
use in cases where the required course is not available in China. The former training will be
allocated on a per-institution basis and the latter on a per-province basis. Details of this and
other technical assistance programs are given in Annex 11.
The Management Element
3.10          This element will develop management capabilities for the teaching system at the
central, provincial and institutional levels through provisions of equipment, staff training and
expert services. There will be three components: national management development, provincial
management development and teacher information system (TIS). The project will thus provide
direct assistance to development of management capabilities and provide for the information
gathering and processing needed to support that management.
3.11          National Management Development (base cost $0.2  million).   This
subcomponent will provide support at the national level to continued development of sector
management, teacher management and project management. It will consist of overseas study
tours and one-year training programs for national level (mainly SEdC) staff who deal with
education planning and with project development, implementation and administration.
3.12          Provincial Management Development (base cost $0.3 million). The capacity
of the education offices in the 15 project provinces to deal with teacher management and project
management will be enhanced mainly through specialist services and training, both in-country
and overseas. A small provision will also be made for equipment to be used by these offices,
in addition to the information processing equipment covered below.  Development of
management skills at the institutional level is covered under the staff upgrading component.
3.13          Teacher Information System (base cost $7.3 million). Management information
systems (MIS) have been established at SEdC and in the education bureaus of all the project
provinces and in several of the teacher training institutions. These are equipped with different
levels and types of hardware and software. Training has been primarily provided by SEdC staff,
and by local university specialists in some provinces.  Basic data on teachers, students,
equipment and school facilities have been collected and processed intermittently by the MIS staff.
Presently, the following issues exist. First, most of the databases are created with software that



- 14 -
does not allow for high flexibility in producing summary cross-tabulations and concise indicators.
Secondly, some information is not sufficiently detailed, is missing, or is outdated. Thirdly, the
existing databases are numerous, fragmented and often scattered. Fourth and finally, not only
do these conditions affect the utilization of information for education planning and management,
but also there is insufficient feedback from end-users to the MIS staff regarding these data
requirements and their needs for information refinement and improvement.
3.14          It has been agreed to establish TIS units in the Management Information Center
(MIC) of SEdC, in the MISs at the provincial education bureaus in the project provinces, in
selected counties and in the institutions covered by the project. The TIS units will focus on the
use of information to maximize the benefit of teaching services. Once the system is running,
it will be applied, inter alia, to projecting teacher requirements and supply and to teaching staff
management. The units will be responsible for collecting, processing and presenting teacher
related information for primary, secondary and higher education. The TIS unit staff will be
selected from the existing MIS staff. Training will be provided through seminars conducted by
SEdC, local universities and foreign specialists. TIS development and application at lower levels
will be coordinated by MIC.
3.15          The project will provide hardware and software for 281 TIS units: one in SEdC,
15 in the participating provinces, 141 in selected counties, and the 124 project institutions. The
estimated base cost for equipment and software at SEdC MIC is $1.67 million. For the
provinces and counties it is $4.50 million. Additionally, civil works will be provided in some
of the provinces, with a total budget of $0.70 million. The equipment cost for the TIS units in
the teacher training institutions ($0.74 million) is included within their instructional equipment
budgets. The hardware and software requirements were estimated on the basis of information
collection and processing needs, and on available MIS equipment and staff. Equipment provided
for the TIS at SEdC will be based on a client/server architecture, an approach which should
permit acquisition of flexible processing power at attractive cost. SEdC is equally forward
looking in its procurement strategy, planning to acquire the needed systems in stages, thereby
benefiting both from an expected continued improvement in price/performance and from
increasing familiarity with the evolving technology. The TIS environment at the provincial
education bureaus will also be based on the client/server model. Therefore, at negotiations, the
Government will agree that it and each project province will establish TIS systems acceptable
to the Association, including provision, under national coordination,fordevelopment of software
applications which are both locally appropriate and compatible among administrative levels.
Equipment for the counties will consist of one microcomputer and one printer for every TIS unit.
In each of the project institutions there will be two microcomputers and one printer. Further
technical information is provided in Annex 12 and in the Project File. A timetable for
introduction of management improvements and applications of the TIS has been received and is
also included in the Project File.
3.16          Staff training to support the 77S (base cost $0.4 million) will consist of training
on hardware and software applications, advanced techniques in programming, computer
languages, system analysis, multiple software applications, local and national networking and
communications, and advanced techniques and methods of data collection, processing and
presentation. Training for TIS end-users will include advanced methods of education planning
such as teacher supply and demand projections, education efficiency analysis, school mapping,
and micro-computer models and their applications. The training will be balanced between the
TIS staff and the end-users and among staff in the institutions, counties, provinces and SEdC.
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -     --   -----



- 15 -
It will address the particular needs of each group and be designed to facilitate communication
between TIS staff and end-users and that among TIS staff in SEdC, the provinces, the counties
and the project institutions.
The Quality Enhancement Element
3.17          The project will promote innovations and other improvements in teaching and
teacher training through the introduction and encouragement of new approaches and methods.
The purpose of these will be to expose Chinese educators to possible changes in practice which
they will then be responsible to apply within the Chinese context. The first of three such project
components will provide teaching methodology core seminars to introduce selected concepts from
outside China for consideration by Chinese educators. Chinese education and teacher training
lack sufficient attention to teacher/student interactions, group work, creativity, and higher order
concept development. The current place of information technology is very limited, both
materially and pedagogically. The seminars will aim to present best international teaching
practice, initially at the national level and later cascaded down to the provincial level, under the
coordination of SEdC. A test of selected methods introduced in the core seminars will be carried
out through pilot programs in ten teacher training institutions, also to be supported under the
project. A third approach to the identification and introduction of new methods will take place
through innovation programs which will permit provinces, project supported institutions and
others to propose projects of an experimental, innovative or developmental nature, to be
supported by funds under the project and subsequently evaluated. Those deemed most successful
will receive further dissemination through SEdC and other channels of the Chinese education
system.
Teaching Methodology Core Seminars
3.18          (Base cost $0.4 million). The objective of these seminars will be to develop new
teaching methods, based on a combination of the best international and Chinese practices and
adapted to the Chinese context, with a primary focus on innovative teaching methodologies and
a secondary focus on subject area curricular materials. There will be five seminars, covering
English, mathematics, biology, physics and chemistry teaching. Among the methods to be
included are discovery, inquiry, small group activities and individualized and programmed
instruction. There will be approximately 200 participants trained at the national level and some
1,250 at the regional level. The national level seminars will be led by a small number of highly
qualified international and Chinese experts, thus combining the best of external and Chinese
ideas and practice. Each of the national level seminars will be preceded by an international
study tour for two Chinese seminar leaders for each subject area, in order for them to observe
best practices in their teaching methodologies. The Chinese study tour participants will be
hosted abroad by the international seminar leaders with whom they will jointly teach the seminar.
Each of the national level seminars will be held at a different normal university. Each project
province will send two or three participants, who will then become instructors at the provincial
level seminars to be held at project-supported institutions. The latter institutions will be selected
for their efforts to innovate, experiment with and introduce new teaching methodology. A fuller
description of the core seminars is given in Annex 13.



- 16 -
Pilot Programs
3.19          (Base cost $0.1 million). Two project-supported teacher training institutions have
been selected for each of the five subject matter areas of the core seminars, to experiment with
ways of disseminating widely the ideas and practices developed there. These institutions will
need to commit substantial staff and other resources, for which they will be compensated under
the project.
Innovation Program
3.20          (Base cost $5.6 million). The project will also provide for the support of self-
generated improvement activities and will thus seek to identify and exploit the many potentially
fruitful ideas which lie within the Chinese teacher training system. Accordingly, institutions and
provinces will be invited to propose, according to a format to be provided them, activities of
improvement or innovation, based on their own strengths and needs. The activities to be
financed will, inter alia, be required to be consistent with the objectives of the project, seek to
provide information beneficial to the development of teacher training, and take positive steps
toward solution of existing problems in teacher training and teacher service in a context beyond
that of the proposing institution. The eligible teacher training institutions will include, in
addition to the ones covered under this project, those in the project provinces which have
benefited from certain earlier IDA education projects related to teacher training. A fund will
be provided within the project to support these activities. Applications for use of that fund could
be received during the early years of the project up until the time it is exhausted. An innovation
assessment group (IAG) has been set up to evaluate the proposals, to select those to be funded,
and to review progress of work under them. The IAG is composed of representatives from the
Government and from Chinese universities. Results of funded activities will be assessed by the
IAG or by institutions designated by them. Selected results will be disseminated nationally by
means of seminars, videotapes and publications. At negotiations, agreements were reached
regarding the composition, role, procedures and responsibilities of the IAG, including adequate
staffing, budget and criteria for subproject funding acceptable to the Association. Further
information regarding the IAG and its operations, on which those agreements will be based, is
provided in Annex 14. In anticipation of the project support, a batch of nearly 250 proposals
has already been received and evaluated. Once the procedures for IAG operations have been
formally agreed at negotiations, that first batch will be discussed and preparations made for its
implementation. It is expected to include, inter alia, activities related to reform of teaching
methodology in individual subjects and in laboratories, increased vocational content in order to
move to a more comprehensive response to local economic needs, reforms in institutional
administration, development of teaching skills including skills in multiple subjects, applications
of computers and media, education of minorities, special education for disabled and
extraordinary students, examinations, teacher careers, and the development of courses related
to environment, population and natural resources. At negotiations, agreements were reached that
a mid-term review will be carried out by June 30, 1996, and thereafter that provisions will be
made for diffusion, including to provinces not participating in this project, of those innovative
methods which prove to be effective and any other significant lessons learned from the project.
Technical Assistance
3.21          Overall, a base cost of $7.3 million will be included in the project budget for
technical assistance, including $0.2 million for specialist services, $4.8 million for in-country



- 17 -
training, and $2.4 million for overseas training. There will in addition be $5.6 million provided
for the innovation program. A summary of the nature of these activities is given in Annex 11.
The technical assistance specialists will also provide guidance relating to appropriate overseas
training opportunities. In total, over 5,500 person-years of training will be provided to more
than 11,000 participants. At negotiations, agreements were reached that the Government and
the project provinces will carry out training under the project in accordance with an agreed plan
of action and that consultants' services will be retained under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association.
Evaluation of Teaching Services
3.22          The achievement of explicit project objectives will be evaluated in the customary
way against a list of quantitative objectives (Annex 15) as is indicated in para. 5.13. In addition,
to attend to longer term and more qualitative aspects, an evaluation group made up of
representatives of all concerned departments has been set up at SEdC. Three levels of evaluation
are recognized, addressing inputs, process and outputs. A description of the approach being
taken is given in Annex 16. The specific activities of the evaluation group have been initially
discussed, but details have been intentionally left open for the time being to allow it to identify
its ways of operation and to take advantage of opportunities as they arise. The services of the
TIS will eventually be used, but other evaluation activities will take place before that. Site visits
and evaluation of teacher training graduates have been mentioned. If the need arises, assistance
to these and similar activities could be provided under its innovation program component.
Environmental Aspects and Program Objective Categories
3.23          No negative environmental impact from the project is foreseen. By strengthening
capacity for training teachers for disadvantaged areas, the project will contribute to reduction of
poverty. Improved teacher training will also strengthen opportunities for women in the teaching
profession. The project, through one of its quantitative targets, will increase the numbers of
women engaged in LMS teaching and thus encourage enrollment and retention of girls in
schools. It has also been shown that improved quality of education in general also increases the
retention of girls, with resultant economic and social benefits.



- 18 -
4
PROJECTS COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.1             The project cost is estimated at $256.4 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of $51.6 million equivalent (about 20 percent) and no taxes and duties.
Project costs are summarized by component in Table 4.1 and by category in Table 4.2. More
detailed project cost estimates are given in Annex 17.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base  Foreign
--- (Y million) ----    ---- (S million) ----   (2)    (2)
Facilities upgrading             422.7    0.0    422.7   78.0         0.0    78.0   38.2   0.0
Instructional Equipment /a       365.8  176.6    542.4   67.5    32.6   100.1   49.0  32.6
Library Development /a             21.9   21.4      43.3    4.0       3.9     8.0    3.9  49.4
Staff Upgrading                    13.8    9.0      22.8    2.5       1.7     4.2    2.1  39.5
National Management Dev.             /b    1.6       1.6      lb      0.3     0.3    0.1  99.0
Provincial Management Dev.          0.5    1.7       2.2    0.1       0.3     0.4    0.2  77.1
Teacher Information Systems
Central                           2.9    6.7       9.6    0.5       1.2     1.8    0.9  69.8
Province & County               18.2   11.7       29.9    3.4      2.2      5.5    2.7  39.1
Core Seminars                       1.6    0.6       2.3    0.3       0.1     0.4    0.2  27.5
Pilot Programs                      0.3    0.1       0.4    0.1        /b     0.1      /b  25.0
Innovation Programs               21.4    8.7       30.1    4.0       1.6     5.6    2.7  28.9
Total Base Costs            869.1  238.1  1,107.2  160.4    43.9   204.3  100.0  21.5
Physical Contingencies             67.8   18.4      86.2   12.5      3.4    15.9    7.8  21.3
Price Contingencies               173.2   23.0    196.2   32.0       4.2    36.2   17.7  11.7
Total Pro1ect Cost        1,110.2  279.4  1,389.6  204.8    51.6   256.4  125.5  20.1
/a Includes related specialist service, training, and insurance and freight cost.
/b Less than 0.05.
4.2             Base costs are expressed in August 1992 prices.  Civil works and facilities,
locally procured equipment and materials, and in-country training are estimated at prevailing
local prices. The cost estimates for items to be procured from external sources are based on
recent experience. The foreign exchange portion of project costs has been estimated as follows:
zero for civil works and facilities; 40 percent for instructional equipment; 20 percent for spares
and consumables; 75 percent for central level computing equipment; 40 percent for provincial
level computing equipment; 100 percent for specialist services; zero for in-country training;
100 percent for overseas training; 85 percent for equipment under innovation programs; and
100 percent for consultant services and training under innovation programs.



- 19 -
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base  Foreign
---- (Y million) ----    ---- ($ million) ----   (2)    (2)
Civil Works and Facilities      426.5    0.0    426.5   78.7      0.0    78.7   38.5   0.0
Equipment & Materials           330.1  223.1    553.2   60.9    41.2   102.1   50.0  40.3
Specialist Services               0.0    1.0      1.0    0.0      0.2     0.2    0.1 100.0
In-country Training              25.8    0.0     25.8    4.8      0.0     4.8    2.3   0.0
Overseas Training                 0.0   12.9     12.9    0.0      2.4     2.4    1.2 100.0
Studies                          10.3    1.1     11.4    1.9      0.2     2.1    1.0   9.6
Insurance and Freight            76.4    0.0     76.4   14.1      0.0    14.1    6.9   0.0
Total Base Cost           869.1  238.1  1,107.2  160.4    43.9   204.3  100.0  21.5
Physical Contingencies           67.8   18.4     86.2   12.5      3.4    15.9    7.8  21.3
Price Contingencies             173.2   23.0    196.2   32.0      4.2    36.2   17.7  11.7
Total Project Cost       1.110.2  279.4  1.389.6  204.8    51.6   256.4  125.5  20.1
4.3            Contingency allowances have been estimated as follows. Eight percent physical
contingencies have been added to all project items. Price contingencies used for the foreign
exchange items are: 1.9 percent for 1993, 3.9 percent for 1994, 4.9 percent for 1995,
4.2 percent for 1996, 3.6 percent for 1997 and 4.6 percent for 1998. For locally costed items,
6 percent contingencies are applied annually over the life of the project.  Of expenditure
categories after contingencies are applied, 39.2 percent will go to facilities (all from in-country
funding), 56.3 percent to equipment (including library stock and information systems), and
4.5 percent to technical assistance and innovations. These inputs address the project objectives
in a balanced and effective way. The apparently low level of allocation for the last category
reflects in part the large proportion (97 percent) of in-country training.
Financing Plan
4.4            The National People's Congress has made available to the State Education
Commission (SEdC) Y 160 million for each year of the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95) to
support special developments, a substantial part of which is for LMS teacher training. SEdC
will join with IDA and the provinces under the project to develop LMS teaching services. The
financing plan will include $100 million IDA resources (about 39 percent), $53.0 million from
the central government (about 39 percent), allocated among provinces according to their number
of assisted teacher training institutions and their level of development, and $103.4 million from
the provinces themselves (about 41 percent), mostly for civil works. Almost $93 million of the
proposed credit, at standard IDA terms, will be onlent to the project provinces. (This will cover
all of foreign exchange costs and 23.6 percent of local costs.) The financing plan for the project
is given in Table 4.3. The amounts to be provided by SEdC in project counterpart funds and
the amounts from the credit to be allocated to each province are given in Annex 18. At
negotiations, the Government will agree to make a part of the proceeds of the Credit available
to participating provincial governments, to be repaid over 10 years with a service charge of
1.5 percent per annum, following a 5-year grace period. The provincial governments will bear
the foreign exchange risks on those proceeds.
4.5            Project Sustainability. There are no significant increases in the operational
costs of teacher training institutions arising from the project, except for the requirement that



- 20 -
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Local          Foreign            Total             x
Government
National               53.0               0.0            53.0            20.7
Provincial            103.4               0.0           103.4            40.3
IDA                       48.4             51.6            100.0            39.0
Total              204.6             51.6            256.4           100.0
adequate provision be made for operation, spares and maintenance for the equipment supplied
under it. This will contribute a very low and easily absorbed incremental cost, amounting to less
than 2 percent of annual operating cost of the participating teacher training institutions. No other
impacts on recurrent costs are expected to result from the project, which in itself will not
contribute to any expansion of school or teacher training enrollments. The project works within
and makes use of existing institutional arrangements, which gives assurance to its sustainability
in that regard.



- 21 -
5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Project Preparation and Implementation Plan
5.1          The identification of key issues to be addressed by the project resulted from
studies carried out jointly by Association and Chinese university staff and discussed with SEdC.
Priorities for project focus were determined in the course of that work and during subsequent
identification and preparation missions. Special attention has been given to procedures for
selection of instructional equipment, to the design of appropriate training and management
development programs, to formulation of the seminars and to setting up a system to carry out
the innovation programs provided for under the project. All of these topics were discussed and
tentatively settled upon jointly by Association and Chinese Government staff during project
preparation. The expected timetable for implementation is given in Annex 19.
Management of Project Implementation
5.2          The qualitative and professional decisions related to the project will be made by
officials of the participating teacher training institutions and provinces, by technical departments
of SEdC and by the IAG. Arrangements for these functions have been discussed and are in
place (Annex 20). Overall coordination of the technical aspects of project execution, including
procurement and financial operations, will be carried out by SEdC through its Foreign
Investment and Loan Office (FILO), using technical and administrative resources which are
familiar to the Association and have proved satisfactory in the past. FILO was formed in 1981
to implement the first Chinese University Development Project (Loan 2021-CHA and Credit
1167-CHA) and has extensive experience in the technical aspects of project execution. The
aspects of implementation devolved to provincial education bureaus will include development of
management and teacher information systems at that level, with the coordination of FILO and
the Management Information Center of SEdC. A further description of project implementation
responsibilities, including a plan for supervision by the Association, is given in Annex 20. A
total of 33 staff-weeks of field supervision are foreseen, or 6 staff-weeks per year through
project closing. A mid-term review of project progress will be held using information provided
through the TIS to support project monitoring. At negotiations, agreements were reached that
Government, the project provinces and the project institutions will carry out the project in
accordance with annual plans of action provided by April 1 of each year during project
implementation, acceptable to the Association, including adequate staff to implement the project.
Procurement
5.3          The categories for procurement under the project are: civil works and facilities;
equipment, materials and books; specialist services; in-country training; overseas training; and
equipment, training and consultant services under the innovative program. FILO will be



- 22 -
responsible for overall procurement arrangements, using their own technical and administrative
resources and the services of the International Tendering Company of the China National
Technical Import and Export Corporation. These are familiar to the Association and have
proved satisfactory for work of this kind in the past. The timing of procurement activities will
conform with the project implementation timetable given in Annex 19. All procurement will
follow the Bank's guidelines.
5.4           Civil works and facilities procurement will consist of providing or upgrading
buildings, laboratories and classrooms at the teacher training institutions supported by the
project, and will be financed wholly by Government funds. Force account and other customary
local procedures will be used. The works and facilities provided through this category will
support effective use of the equipment, materials and personnel provided under the project.
5.5           Equipment and materials will be procured by international competitive bidding
(ICB) except for: (a) books and publications; and (b) contracts for items valued at $200,000
equivalent or less up to an aggregate total of $14.0 million (exclusive of books and publications).
Qualified domestic suppliers will receive a preference in bid evaluation in ICB bidding of
15 percent or the prevailing rate of customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Books
and publications will be procured either directly from their publishers or authorized distributors,
or on the basis of competitive quotations from established booksellers. Packages of less than
$200,000 will be procured by local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the IDA.
Packages of less than $50,000 up to an aggregate total of $4.0 million, may be procured by local
shopping from at least three suppliers. Spares for proprietary equipment provided under the
project will be purchased directly from the supplier. Standardized documents, as prepared under
the auspices of the Bank Group and the Ministry of Finance, will be used for all competitive
tenders.
5.6           Consulting services and training will be procured according to the Guidelines
titled "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency," except for contracts below $100,000 equivalent, which will be arranged directly with
the selected institutions or individuals. Overseas training will take place at a large number of
institutions selected according to available specialties. Because of the small contracts likely to
be involved, this training will therefore normally be arranged through direct negotiation with the
selected training institutions.
5.7           Prior Review.  The Association will review, prior to bidding, items of
equipment or goods to be procured under ICB, along with any changes to be made in the
standardized bidding documents. An estimated 70 percent of total equipment and materials
contracts will be covered by such reviews. Prior review will also be required for specialist
services and training to be provided under contracts of $100,000 equivalent or more.
5.8           Procurement Summary. The procurement arrangements for the project are
given in Table 5.1.
Disbursements
5.9           The proposed IDA Credit for $100.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over
a period of 5.5 years as shown in Table 5.2. The related detailed disbursement schedule
presented in Annex 21 conforms with the standard disbursement profile for China. The



- 23 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement method            Total
ICB    LCB   Other       NIF      costs
Civil Works and Facilities           -       -        -       100.5    100.5
(0.0)     (0.0)
Equipment (Including Spares)        94.0   10.0    13.6/a    -          116.6
(69.5)  (7.5)   (7.0)               (84.0)
Books and Other Library Stock        -       -       10.2/b    -         10.2
(7.6)               (7.6)
Insurance and Freight                -       -        -        17.6      17.6
(0.0)    (0.0)
Studies                              -       -        2.1/c    -          2.1
(2.1)               (2.1)
Specialist Services                  -       -        0.2/c    -          0.2
(0.2)               (0.2)
Overseas Training                    -       -        2.9/c    -          2.9
(2.9)               (2.9)
In-country Training                  -       4.3      2.0/c    -          6.3
(2.2)   (1.0)               (3.2)
Total                          93.0   14.3    31.0    118.1    256.4
(69.5)  (9.7)  (20.8)      (0.0)  (100.0)
NIF = Not IDA-financed.
La   Local shopping ($5 million).
Spares for proprietary equipment provided under the project ($8.6 million).
L2   Direct procurement from publishers and authorized distributors.
Li   Direct contracting below $100,000. According to World Bank Guidelines for higher
amounts.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
percentages of disbursement for each category of expenditure under the Credit are given in
Table 5.3. In order to finance rapid start-up of the technical assistance and quality enhancement
activities of the project, retroactive financing of $5 million is provided for expenditures incurred
after December 31, 1992.



- 24 -
Table 5.2: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
($ million)
Bank FY                       1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
Annual                        26.4    35.9    21.4    12.4        3.0      0.9
Cumulative                    26.4    62.3    83.7    96.1    99.1   100.0
Table 5.3: DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Amount          I of expenditures
Category                       ($ million)         to be financed
Equipment, Materials and           75.5       100% of foreign expenditures,
Books                                        55% of local expenditures
Specialist Services                 0.4       100%
In-country Training                 2.7        50%
Overseas Training                   2.7       100%
Equipment Under the Inno-           3.2        85%
vation Program
Consultant Services and             2.2       100%
Training Under the Inno-
vation Program
Unallocated                        13.3
Total                        100.0
5.10         Special Account. A Special Account in United States dollars, with an authorized
allocation of $6.0 million based on four months of average disbursements, will be established
in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. It will be replenished monthly
or whenever it is drawn down to half of its initial deposit level, whichever occurs first.
Disbursements for staff training in China or abroad will be made from the Special Account
against the actual cost of travel, subsistence and training fees incurred.
5.11         Documentation of Expenditures. Reimbursements of expenditures relating to
training, to contracts for specialist services valued at less than $100,000 equivalent, and to
contracts for equipment and materials each valued at less than $200,000 equivalent will be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) to be certified by FILO. Documents supporting
the SOEs will be retained by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and made available for inspection
by IDA supervision missions. All other disbursements will be made against full documentation.
5.12         Accounts and Audits. Project accounts and details of the Special Account will
be maintained by FILO. Annual audits will be performed by the State Audit Commission. At
negotiations, agreements were reached that annual audit reports, prepared by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, will be submitted to the Association within eight months



- 25 -
of the end of each Government fiscal year, and that the audit will contain a separate opinion
regarding the SOEs.
Monitoring of Project Implementation
5.13         During project implementation periodic missions from the Association will
review the progress of project implementation, according to the supervision plan given in
Annex 20 and based on the indicators presented in Annex 15. FILO, with the assistance of the
IAG, will monitor progress on the same basis. A midterm review will be undertaken about the
first half of calendar 1996.  At negotiations, agreements were reached that project
implementation will be monitored according to indicators acceptable to the Association.
5.14         Completion and Closing Dates. Project completion is estimated for June 30,
1998. The Closing Date for the IDA Credit will be December 31, 1998.
5.15         Project Reporting. Reports of the progress of project implementation will be
prepared by FILO annually, beginning April 1, 1994, based on information received from the
operational institutions and agencies of the project. These reports will give special attention to
the development of the TIS, teaching methodology activities and innovative programs. A project
completion report will be prepared by FILO and submitted to the Association within six months
of the closing of the project.



- 26 -
6
BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.1           The project will build on the existing strengths in the Chinese education system
and assist in providing teaching services of higher quality more broadly, primarily through
improved teacher training and strengthened management. It will provide more opportunities for
laboratory work, more reading places in libraries, more effective language training, and
extensive staff development at teacher training institutions. At the provincial and county levels,
selection, assignment and utilization of teachers will be assisted by management development,
particularly through the proposed TIS. Finally, programs for improvement of teaching will be
introduced and tested, giving exposure to new approaches and opportunities to experiment with
innovations. These benefits are expected to affect virtually all teacher trainers and trainees in
the participating provinces.
6.2           The project conforms closely with directions being taken by the Govermnent in
the education sector, particularly regarding the provision of nine years of UBE. It will in
particular support equity in the delivery of educational services by facilitating the provision of
qualified teachers, trained to teach in more than one subject area, to LMSs in rural and other
disadvantaged regions. The project will, furthermore, concentrate resources on activities aimed
at improving the content and style of teaching. In time, enhanced institutional development and
operational efficiency could be expected to have a strong beneficial impact on the performance
of the education system.
6.3           Though the management development activities under the project will concentrate
on teachers and teaching, the resultant capabilities will eventually benefit other aspects of
education as well. Attention to management in the provinces and counties will assure that it is
strengthened at these key levels. Similarly, establishment of an effective TIS will form the
foundation for a more comprehensive MIS for educational services and provide, inter alia, for
more accurate projection of future teacher requirements.
6.4           A diversity of experimental and innovative activities aimed at qualitative
improvements to teaching will be supported and evaluated under the project, with the intent of
identifying practices and methods for further development. Participation in such activities by
individuals and small groups will also assist their professional development.
Risks
6.5           There are operational risks inherent in the implementation of a project reaching
124 teacher training institutions and 15 provincial offices. There are also questions whether the
capacity building aimed at improved management of teaching and teacher training systems will



- 27 -
fully achieve its targets, and whether the teacher information systems will be utilized as
envisaged. These risks will be addressed by a structure of project management that combines
the varied administrative and professional requirements of the end-users of project inputs with
the proven strong project implementation capabilities of the SEdC. The participating institutions,
provinces and SEdC have, furthermore, been continuously involved in discussions during project
development. Thirdly, the effective introduction of new methods and independently conceived
innovations will require careful oversight and monitoring. The IAG has been formed for that
purpose.
6.6          It will continue to prove difficult to maintain a sufficient supply of qualified
teachers in disadvantaged locations. This problem will grow as the coverage of LMS services
expands toward the goal of nine years of UBE. It is inherent in the wider extension of
educational opportunities, and its solution will come through the availability of better prepared
teachers and more attractive teaching careers. Both of these matters will be addressed by the
results of the management development efforts of the project, once they become operational.



- 28 -
7
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
7.1           At negotiations, agreements were reached as follows:
(a)   that the project will be carried out in accordance with the strategy statement
regarding LMS teaching and teachers (para. 1.19, Annex 3);
(b)   that the Government will support with its own resources the strengthening of
LMS teacher training in provinces not covered by the project consistent with the
project's objectives (para. 2.4);
(c)   that each project institution be provided with and make use of sufficient funds,
spare parts and supplies to maintain in good operating condition the equipment
financed under the project (para. 3.5);
(d)   that the Government will agree that it and each project province establish TIS
systems acceptable to the Association, including provision, under national
coordination, for development of software applications which are both locally
appropriate and compatible among administrative levels (para. 3.15);
(e)   that the composition, role, procedures and responsibilities of the IAG, including
adequate staffing, budget and criteria for subproject funding, will be acceptable
to the Association (para. 3.20, Annex 14);
(f)   that a mid-term review will be carried out by June 30, 1996, and thereafter
provisions will be made for diffusion, including to provinces not participating
in this project, of those innovative methods which prove to be effective and any
other significant lessons learned from the project (para. 3.20);
(g)   that the Government and the project provinces will carry out training under the
project in accordance with an agreed plan of action, and that consultants'
services will be retained under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association
(para 3.21, Annex 11);
(h)   that the Government will make a part of the proceeds of the Credit available to
participating provincial governments, to be repaid over 10 years with a service
charge of 1.5 percent per annum, following a 5-year grace period (para. 4.4);



- 29 -
(i)   that the Government, the project provinces and the project institutions will carry
out the project in accordance with annual plans of action provided by April 1 of
each year during project implementation, acceptable to the Association, and
including adequate staff to implement the project (para. 5.2, Annex 20);
(j)   that annual audit reports, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, will be submitted to the Association within eight months of the end
of each Government fiscal year, and that the audit will contain a separate
opinion regarding the SOEs (para 5.12); and
(k)   that project implementation will be monitored in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Association (para. 5.13, Annex 15).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.2           As conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   the Government shall provide the Association with project implementation
agreements, acceptable to the Association, to be entered into between the
Government and each province;
(b)   the Government shall provide the Association with a detailed plan of action,
acceptable to the Association, for implementing the first year of project
activities; and
(c)   the Government's State Council shall have approved the Development Credit
Agreement.
Recommendation
7.3           On the basis of the preceding, the Effective Teaching Services Project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Credit of SDR 72.1 million ($100.0 million equivalent), on standard IDA
terms with 35 years maturity to the People's Republic of China.






- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
OUANTITATIVE GROWTH OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1949 - 1988
1949    1958    1965    1212   1979   1988
Kindergartens
Schools (thousand)                                 261.9          171.8
Infants (million)                                    9.0           18.5
Teachers (thousand)                                334.8          670.4
Primary Schools
Schools (thousand)        347.0   777.0   683.0  982.2  924.0  973.3
Pupils (million)           24.4    86.4   116.2  146.2  146.6  125.4
Graduates (million)          0.6              6.7   25.7   20.0   19.3
Teachers (million)                                   5.2    5.4    5.5
Secondary Schools
Schools (thousand)           5.2    28.9    81.0           150.0  105.0
Students (million)           1.3     8.5    14.4            60.3   53.6
Graduates (million)                           2.3   21.8   24.0   15.4
Teachers (million)                                           3.2    3.4
Of which. General Secondary
Schools (thousand)                                 201.3           91.5
Students (million)                                  67.8   59.1   47.5
Graduates (million)                           2.1   21.4   23.8   14.1
Teachers (million)                                   3.2    3.1    3.0
Higher Education
Colleges/Universities
(thousands)             205      791     434    404    633   1075
Undergrad. students
(thousands)             120      660     670    625.3 1020   2065.9
Graduates (thousand)        21              186    194.4   85    553.5
Teachers (thousand)                                186.0  237    393.2
Postgraduate Students (thousand)                                  100.8
Graduates (thousand)                                               36.3
Source:   China - A Survey of Teaching Services: Supply, Performance, Training
and Careers
po.te:    The available statistics do not distinguish between lower and higher
middle schools.



ANNEX 1
- 31 -                        Page 2 of 6
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
NUMBER OF TEACHERS SERVING IN SELECTED YEARS
1952    1962   1970    1979    1982    1985   1988
Primary Schools
Total (thousand)       1,435   2,511  3,612   5,382   5,505   5,377  5,501
Male                   1,189   1,813    NA    3,413   3,508   3,249  3,217
Female    n              246      698    NA    1,969   1,997   2,128  2,284
Percent female            17%      28%   NA         37%      36%      40%    42%
Student/teacher ratio   35.6    34.1* 30.1#    27.2    25.4    24.9   NA
Secondary Schools
Total (thousand)         130      473  1,213   3,191   2,871   2,967  3,389
Male                     120      381    NA    2,408   2,120   2,131  2,377
Female    "               10       92    NA        783      751      836  1,012
Percent female             8%      19%   NA         25%      26%      28%    30%
Student/teacher ratio   24.2    24.2  20.2#    18.9    16.4    17.2   NA
Higher Education
Total (thousand)          27      144    129       237      287      344    393
Male       "              24      114    NA        176      213      252    282
Female    "                3       30    NA         61       74       92    111
Percent female            11%      21%   NA         26%      26%      27%    28%
Student/teacher ratio    7.1        6.3*  4.9#       4.3      4.0      5.0   NA
Source:   China - A Survey of Teaching Services: Supply, Performance, Training
and Careers
Notes:    NA denotes not available.
* indicates 1957
# indicates 1965



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
STUDENT/TEACHER RATIO AND TEACHER REOUIREMENTS. 1990-2000
Student/Teacher Ratio          Teacher Reguirements (Thousands)
Year      Total   Urban  County  Rural    Total   Urban    County    Rural
Primary Schools
1990      21.9    19.6    20.6    22.5        5,572    684       630       4,258
1991      22.0    20.0    20.9    22.5        5,620    680       633       4,307
1992      22.2    20.3    21.1    22.6        5,657    676       632       4,349
1993      22.3    20.7    21.4    22.6        5,695    672       631       4,392
1994      22.4    21.1    21.7    22.7        5,734    668       630       4,436
1995      22.5    21.5    22.0    22.7        5,773    664       630       4,479
2000      23.1    23.5    23.5    23.0        6,275    676       658       4,942
Lower Middle Schools
1990      15.6    12.7    15.7    16.6        2,471    473       446       1,552
1991      15.8    13.2    15.9    16.5        2,525    471       454       1,599
1992      15.9    13.6    16.1    16.5        2,585    469       462       1,654
1993      16.0    14.1    16.4    16.4        2,648    467       470       1,711
1994      16.1    14.6    16.6    16.4        2,712    465       477       1,771
1995      16.2    15.1    16.8    16.3        2,779    462       485       1,832
2000      16.6    18.0    18.0    16.0        3,309    475       554       2,280
Source:  World Bank calculations based on data provided by SEdC



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
STUDENT/TEACHER RATIO AND TEACHER REOUIREMENTS
IN UPPER MIDDLE SCHOOLS. 1990-2000
(Thousands)
Student/Teacher Ratio*          Teacher Reguirements (Thousands)*
Year    Total   Gen  Agr&Voc  Tech  SkWrk    Total  QgM  Agr&Voc Tech SkWrk
1990    12.4    12.8   12.7   12.8    9.9    1,069   562   195   176   135
1991    12.8    13.3   13.3   13.0    9.9    1,060   542-  200   177   141
1992    13.2    14.0   13.9   13.1    9.9    1,053   523   204   178   148
1993    13.7    14.6   14.6   13.3    9.9    1,047   504   209   178   155
1994    14.2    15.3   15.3   13.5   10.0    1,042   486   214   179   162
1995    14.6    16.0   16.0   13.7   10.0    1,038   469   219   180   170
2000    14.3    16.0   16.0   12.8   10.0    1,324   500   344   240   240
Source:  World Bank calculations based on data provided by SEdC
Notes: * Gen denotes general schools.
Agr&Voc denotes agriculture and vocational schools.
Tech denotes technical schools.
SkWrk denotes skilled worker schools.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN AND GRADUATES OF TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS. 1990-2000
(Thousands)
=    Schools              Colleges             Universities
Year         nl         Grads       Enroll     Grads       Eroll       Grads
1990        602.0       210.0       302.0      138.0       217.0        53.0
1991        614.0       211.0       304.0      130.0       220.0        56.2
1992        603.0       203.0       306.0      130.0       215.0        58.6
1993        600.0       202.0       308.0      129.0       210.0        50.7
1994        597.0       201.0       310.0      133.0       212.0        53.0
1995        594.0       200.0       312.0      136.0       212.0        53.0
2000        585.0       195.0       398.0      173.0       270.0        67.6
Source: SEdC



- 35 -                        ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND OF TEACHERS IN CHINA. 1985
Two-year      Normal      Less than                   Percent
University      College       School          LMS         Total    Unqualified
Primary           0              0        3,043,136    2,381,427   5,424,563          43.9 %
LTMS           120,445        337,092    1,481,992        206,260   2,145,789         78.7
HMS            182,521        156,817        99,541         12,232      451,111       59.5
Agriculture
School           9,841         20,060        36,953          6,625       73,479        86.6
Source:   China - A Survey of Teaching Services: Supply, Performance, Training and
Careers



CHIN
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
LOCUS OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Post-secondary
Lower Middle         Higher Middle             (Higher)
Primary Schools           Schools                Schools              Education
Prefecture
County               Province
Operating            Township                 County               Prefecture              Nation
Township                                    Prefecture
Township                 County                County                Province
Financing       Local fund raising      Local fund raising         Prefecture              Nation
Comprehensive
Universities
Teacher                                   Junior Normal        Normal Institutes         Key Normal
Training for       Normal Schools              Colleges           or Universities         Universities
(Province               (Province             (Province              (Province
Prefecture)             Prefecture)             Nation)                Nation)



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
STRATEGY STATEMENT FOR LOWER MIDDLE SCHOOL TEACHING AND TEACHERS
Background
1.          A single policy for education in China cannot be stated beyond very
general principles. First, the situation changes rapidly with regard both to
economic development needs and to the response of the schooling system to them.
Secondly, the demand for schooling vary considerably among places, according to
their level and style of development. This is also true of their capability to
meet those demands.
2.          Historical Context. The publication in May 1985 of the "Decision to
Restructure the Education System" called for: universalization of nine years of
basic education; expansion of vocational and technical education at the secondary
and post-secondary levels; increased enrollment in and autonomy of higher
education institutions; and strengthened leadership at all levels. That decision
was followed by the Compulsory Education Law of 1986. Under it, nine years of
basic education for all was to be achieved in stages: in the cities and costal
areas by 1990; in towns and villages with a medium level of development by 1995;
and in other areas at a rate commensurate with their economic development. At
the same time, responsibility for providing basic education was delegated to the
local governments.
3.          Existing Conditions.  Nine years of basic education will not be
achieved nationally until the next century, but it is already near reality in
some cities.   Compared with many developing countries, China has been very
successful in providing schooling for its people, with more than 95% of those
aged 6 to 11 years enrolled in primary school and 60% of those aged 12 to 15
years in secondary school.   The 1990 population census indicates that the
literacy rate for those 15 years of age and older is over 77%. (It is close to
90% among the 15 to 25 year age group.) Qualitative improvements have taken
place in all parts of the education system.   University enrollments grew
significantly in the early 1980s, but have stabilized in recent years in order
to concentrate on improvements in quality and on the needs of general schooling
and teacher training.
4.          There is great diversity among provinces and between urban and rural
situations. Varying needs and capabilities for providing schooling also exist.
Decentralization of control has been a natural result. This began by devolution
of responsibility for the financing of schools to provincial, prefectural and
lower administrative levels, followed by a further recognition of the need for
increased local autonomy in the management and control of schools.  This has
resulted in more local authority over curricula, textbook selection, examinations
prior .o that for university entrance, and assignment of students to university
places and to jobs thereafter.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
General Strategv for Education Development
5.          Curriculum and Textbooks.  Until recently, the content of schooling
at all levels was controlled by the State Education Commission (SEdC). Leader-
ship in educational development is now centered in six major regions, with one
normal university designated to take the lead in each.   With some things,
particularly textbooks, additional diversity occurs at the provincial and
institutional levels. It is relatively easy to get permission to experiment with
new content and methods.
6.          Instructional Method.    Chinese  schools  are  effective  in most
respects, and they represent a considered response to the needs of society. The
demands of the modern world, however, place new requirements on all schooling
systems,  including the Chinese.   A shift is taking place from emphasis on
knowledge to development of individual student abilities.   Nonetheless,  the
lecture method is still dominant.
7.          Examinations.  Though the entrance examination for higher education
is still standardized at the national level, preliminary examinations are being
moved to provincial control and lower. The end-of-year examination is no longer
the sole and all powerful measure of student achievement, and evaluations by
teachers are also coming into play. Nevertheless, a centralized examination for
entrance to higher education means that, beyond a certain level, course content
is predetermined to a large degree.
8.          Teache.  The selection of teacher trainees, their training, their
assignment to post and payment of their salaries and benefits are all the
responsibility of the administrative jurisdiction where they work. Once students
are enrolled in teacher training, they understand that they will take up
secondary school teaching as a profession after graduation.   In most cases,
teachers work in their place of origin.  The supply of teachers therefore is
dependent on the availability of qualified trainees, as well as on the economic,
social and physical conditions where they will work. Because of the rapid growth
of schooling in recent years, many locations have had to hire some relatively
unqualified teachers.  In primary schools, many come from outside the formal
recruitment system (community sponsored or minban teachers) and work under less
favorable terms of service than teachers   on the official payroll (gongban
teachers). There are fewer minban teachers in secondary schools, though there
are many who do not possess formal qualifications for teaching.
Teaching and Teachers in Lower Middle Schools
9.          The several directions indicated above are further evidenced by
identification for special attention during the Plan period of the following
topics related to teaching: improved textbooks and teaching materials; reforms,



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
in teaching methodology; emphasis on applications; increased quality of teaching
staff; standardization of teacher training operating conditions; rationalization
of teacher training system management; and the continued physical development of
teacher training institutions.
10.         Teaching Methodology.  Presently, most teaching is formal and teacher
centered, with little attention to development of higher order concepts and to
student/teacher interactions. The students have a passive role, and the emphasis
is on rote learning with much written homework.   The place of information
technology is limited, both pedagogically and materially. Revisions to teaching
content and method would be derived from national and local development needs,
while both respecting the strengths which have been built up in the past and
recognizing the realities which constrain action.
11.         Teacher Supply.  There are many indications of an over-supply of
teachers in some locations and subject areas.  At the same time, there is an
under-supply in certain circumstances, as in rural, remote and economically
backward places. The situation is not a simple one of reassigning or dismissing
teachers. Teachers do not move freely from one location to another. A calli-
graphy teacher does not readily teach biology. Teachers have job security, and
even if retired out of service often ccntinue to be paid at full rate. Also, the
appropriate level of supply is not clearly defined. The ratio of students to
teachers in China is generally low by international standards, but this does not
mean that classes are small. On the contrary, they are often quite large, a big
disadvantage especially in science and language.  A typical norm for teacher
loading is 2.8 teachers per class, but teachers have many other tasks related to
student development and welfare.  A movement toward increased teacher loadini
beginning, but this will necessarily be a long term process.
12.         In disadvantaged locations, the supply of teachers is not adequate.
This will become more severe as the availability of lower middle schools expands.
Recruitment of qualified teachers is therefore very important. Since these
schools tend to be smaller in size, it is desirable that those recruited be able
to teach in more than one subject.  New teachers in such areas are sometimes
assigned for a fixed term and receive special benefits. The bulk (over 80%) of
teachers in training are from such places, which also account for some 80% of the
population. The fastest growing need for new teachers is also in these areas.
Special consideration is given to recruitment of teacher trainine candidates from
disadvantaged Rlaces, and formal qualifications for training are frequently
relaxed. In some places, trainees who do not return to their home location to
teach are required to repay their training costs.
Teacher Training
13.         The conditions identified above provide a basis for the changes
sought in teacher training for lower middle schools. Questions of teacher



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
supply, qualifications in appropriate subject matters, and the locations where
teachers will serve must be dealt with simultaneously.   There needs to be
coordination among the various sources of teachers. notably pre-service teacher
training in-service teacher training and comprehensive higher education
institutions.   Progress is being made in this direction.   Better information
bases and management systems to assist the control of teacher preparation and
assignment are also needed and are gradually being developed at the appropriate
administrative levels. It is a national goal to guarantee a minimum level of
operational and physical conditions for teacher traininz, though many locations
will go well beyond that.
14.         Duration of Training.  Most pre-service teacher training is of three
years duration in residential colleges. Some is of two years as an emergency
measure, but where that is the case it is the intention to return to three years
of training as soon as possible. In some more advanced places, such as Shanghai,
lower middle school teacher training is done in a four year degree course. This
is an eventual target for the country as a whole. Though most teacher training
takes place in institutions dedicated to that work, some also takes place in
comprehensive institutions of higher learning.  The relative merits of these
different approaches are being carefully considered. Sometimes, teacher training
institutions are combined with colleges of other specialties in the interests of
efficiency and of effective response to labor force requirements.   Municipal
universities are being created in Guangdong and elsewhere in direct response to
labor force requirements. Re-training of under qualified teachers is also done
in special institutions, through residential courses, evening courses,
correspondence courses or a  combination.  Efficiency is being sought in some
places by combining pre-and in-service training functions. The latter is also
being used to give periodic professional refreshers to qualified teachers.   In
the future, more autonomy will be given to local authorities to define the
enrollments of teacher training institutions according to proiected local needs.
15.         Training Curriculum and Resources.   Teaching materials for some
subjects are compiled by the SEdC and are recommended to institutions for their
use. These can also, according to their needs, develop their own materials or
choose  ones  offered by various  publishing houses.    The  teacher  training
curriculum concentrates on subject matter content far more than on teaching
skills, and practice. There is, thus far, an absence of integrating concepts in
curriculum planning, the burden resting on the trainees.    Cross-curricular
themes, and applications of information technology have been lacking.   Such
themes are now being gradually addressed. including environment. Population and
health. The role of teacher training institutions, is, furthermore, now being
expanded to include broader course coverage in response to economic development
requirements. Changes in practice will gradually move toward more flexibility.
more electives, and more attention to training in instructional method. pedagogy
and educational Psychology. Teaching practice emphasis will increase in contrast
with theory. Facilities are often insufficient, particularly in language and
computer laboratories. Steps are being taken to improve facility utilization,
especially through more interactive and individual usage. Library utilization
is also subject to improvement, in terms of supply and appropriateness of
materials, access to facilities, and multi-media equipment. These matters are
all being increasingly addressed in individual cases as more resources become
available.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
16.         Othgr Matters. The requirements of smaller schools in rural and like
areas makes desirable the training of teachers to work in more than one subject.
Because of the highly specialized curriculum requirements, this must generally
be in cognate   subjects,  i.e., those with considerable overlap in content.
Teaching practice, which now is usually limited to six weeks, will be extended
gradually as conditions permit.  The year after graduation is a probationary
period during which the new teacher is guided by experienced staff. If this
period is passed successfully, the trainee becomes a full teacher. Attention is
given to the needs of minority students and to the provision of teachers for
minority areas. Special courses and incentives are provided, and these efforts
will continue. Regarding the training of teacher trainers, a nationwide network
of higher teacher training institutions has been set up, with Beijing Normal
University as its center. Teacher training institutions are being encouraged to
engage in more research and pilot programs, in both subject content and
methodology. They are also encouraged to do research and avRlied develoRment to
serve local economic needs, including establishment of subjects or specialties
to address them.
Management
17.         Effective management of all the inputs to education is essential to
the efficient and productive operation of the schooling system.   Management
responsibilities occur at all levels from the national to the county, and
sometimes lower. They involve many areas of action such as planning, scheduling,
budgeting, finance, operations and  efficiency as they relate to facilities,
equipment, curricula, teaching practice, textbooks, examinations, and of course
teachers.
18.         There  is a need to develop management  skills at the level of
individual teacher training institutions regarding matters such as deployment of
staff time-table making and effective utilization of equipment and facilities.
In addition to individual institutions, steps are being taken to strengthen
school and teacher training management at higher administrative levels. The key
operational level for teacher training is the province, because it is there that
most of the decisions regarding resource allocation take place. Guidance from
the national level is also expected, as is that from the six major development
regions. Efforts are thus being made to rationalize teaching system management,
especially at the provincial and national levels, even as many individual
functions  are being decentralized.   Progress quite naturally varies among
locations, but in all cases it is expected to be helped by the availability of
better information from computer based information systems. Compatibility of
these among administrative levels is important, as is training for their use and
for management generally.  The recruiting and assignment of staff to schools,
their training, and the allocation of resources are technical tasks which require
coordination and rational control. The action being taken to improve management
of the education system are intended to respond to that requirement.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
Priorities for Change
19.         The provision of effective teaching services in China is a complex
matter which will be subject to improvement well into the future. The pace of
development will vary from place to place. It is important. therefore. that the
conditions for positive change be recognized and encouraged whenever aRpropriate.
Four criteria for assessing possible improvements can be mentioned: a) need for
the change in terms of improving the coverage or quality of educational service;
b) readiness for the change in the place where it is proposed, on an case-by-case
basis; c) the costs of the change, both immediate and longer term; and d) the
impact of the change on related activities.
20.         Overall, it can be expected on the basis of present realities that,
of the areas mentioned above, the following will call for the most immediate
attention:  decentralization of curriculum, texts. examinations: lower middle
school teaching methodology: assurance of an adeguate suRvlv of disadvantaged
area teachers: revised teacher training curriculum and methodologv: multi-subject
teacher training: merring Rre- and in-service teacher training: phvsical re-
sources and their utilization: management develoRment: and information systems.
There can be no fixed strategy, but rather a constantly changing effort based on
evolving experience and opportunity.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
- 43 -
CHINA
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT IN POOR PROVINCES PROJECT
SUMMARY OF BANK GROUP ASSISTED EDUCATION PROJECTS IN CHINA
University Development Proiect (1981-1985)
LN 2021 CHA - $100.0 M, CR 1167 CHA - SDR 81.4 M ($100.0 M)
1.          The University Development Project was completed in January 1987.
It sought to strengthen science and engineering in Chinese universities. The
project involved 28 universities in 15 provinces, municipalities and
autonomous regions and had three main objectives. The first was to increase
the quality and quantity of graduates and research at the project universities
through provision of buildings, furniture and equipment, specialist services,
fellowships and training. The second was to strengthen planning and
management capabilities of the project universities and the Ministry of
Education through provision of equipment, specialist services, fellowships and
training. The final objective was preparation for future investments in the
education sector.
Agriculture Education and Research Project (1983-1988)
CR 1297 CHA - SDR 67.8 M ($75.4 M)
2.          The Agriculture Education and Research Project was designed to
assist China to strengthen higher education and research in the agricultural
sciences. The project comprised four components: (a) quality improvement in
teaching and research; (b) expansion of enrollment and research capabilities;
(c) improvement of resource management; and (d) development of future
investment in agricultural education and research. The project, which was
managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery, included
11 colleges and 7 agricultural institutions.
Polytechnic/Television University Project (1984-1989)
CR 1411 CHA - SDR 79.6 M ($85.0 M)
3.          The Polytechnic/Television University Project was completed in
December 1989. The project, which had a total cost of US$206 million, sought
to increase the number of students and improve the quality of instruction in
China's polytechnic and television universities. The project involved 17
polytechnic institutions and 28 television universities and consisted of three
components. The polytechnic system component involved construction and
rehabilitation of libraries, laboratories and classrooms, as well as provision
of educational equipment and implementation of curriculum and staff
development. The objective of the television universities component was to
increase enrollment in the television universities. This component also



ANNEX 4
44                           Page 2 of 5
improved the quality of instruction provided by the television university
system and the management of resources through the provision of computer
equipment and senior staff training. The final component involved:
evaluation of current investments in the polytechnic and television university
systems; and planning and preparation for future investments.
Rural Health and Medical Education Proiect (1984-1989)
CR 1472 CHA - SDR 80.2 M, ($85.0 M of which $43.3 M for medical education)
4.          The education component of this project was designed to enhance
the quality of education, training and research in 13 core medical colleges
through the provision of civil works, furniture, equipment, technical
assistance and fellowships. The objectives of the other two components were:
(a) to improve the health status in 46 counties of 3 provinces and one
autonomous region; and (b) to develop the National Center for Preventative
Medicine and the Research Center for Health Planning and Statistics, and to
support applied research at the Sichuan Institute for Chinese Materia Medica.
Second Agricultural Education Project (1984-1992)
LN 2444 CHA - $45.3 M, CR 1500 CHA - SDR 22 M ($23.5 M)
5.          The first objective of this project was increased enrollment and
improved quality of instruction and management at 12 agricultural colleges.
This objective also included introduction of new specializations and
postgraduate programs and development of modern libraries and food science
facilities at 11 other agricultural colleges. The second objective was
increased training capacity and improved curriculum at eight training,
extension and support centers. The third objective was increased enrollment
and improved instruction at 12 technical schools. The fourth objective was to
improve broadcast education programs in agriculture, increase capacity at the
Agricultural Film Studio of the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries, and to increase supplies of agricultural teaching materials.
Finally, the project sought to improve and assist the evaluation and planning
of investments in agricultural education.
Second University Development Project (1986-1991)
CR 1551 CHA - SDR 148 M ($145 M)
6.          The objective of the Second University Development Project was to
increase China's high level technical and managerial manpower through policy
and institutional changes related to the engineering and economics/finance
education subsector. The project cost totaled $1,162 million of which IDA
financed $145 million. The project included financing for engineering and
economics/finance subprojects and national programs to be carried out by
eligible institutions. The project consisted of the following four
components: enrollment level and structure adjustment, quality improvement,
planning and management development and studies.



ANNEX 4
- 45 -                      Page 3 of 5
Provincial Universities Proiect (1987-1992)
CR 1671 CHA - SDR 108 M ($120 M)
7.          The objective of the Provincial Universities Project is to expand
enrollment and improve the quality and management of higher education
programs. The project's first component assists 60 universities by providing
for civil works, equipment for teaching and research, curriculum
reorganization and staff development in the form of fellowships, study tours
and specialist services. The second component assists in the strengthening of
planning and management primarily through the provision of technical
assistance. The third component of the project helps the State Education
Commission to: determine the requirements of industry, agriculture, commerce
and government; set enrollment targets; and locate areas where new
institutions are needed. The project is also helping to determine the supply
of and demand for teachers.
Gansu Provincial Development Project. Education ComDonent (1988-1994)
LN 2812 CHA - $20 M, CR 1793 CHA - SDR 119.1 M ($150.5 M, of which $20.0 M for
education)
8.          This project is part of a comprehensive plan to attain universal
nine-year basic education and to improve the quality of instruction in primary
and lower secondary schools in Gansu Province. The program was designed to
increase enrollment ratios and improve the status of teachers. The project
finances civil works, equipment, furniture and technical assistance in order
to: (a) increase the output of qualified lower secondary school teachers by
expanding the capacity of five normal colleges to accommodate both pre-service
and in-service trainees; (b) improve the quality of pre-service primary
teacher training schools; (c) reduce the number of unqualified teachers by
assisting the Gansu TV Education Institute to expand its in-service training
program to cover the entire province; (d) improve science instruction in the
400 lower secondary schools in poor counties; (e) establish a Center for
School Administration to train school and government administrators in order
to improve educational administration; and (f) improve the management of
education through assistance for development of a new school supervision
system and for the managing educational information system.
Teacher Training Proiect (1989-1993)
CR 1908 CHA - SDR 36.8 H ($50.0 M)
9.          The Teacher Training Project was designed to assist universal
basic education through the expansion and upgrading of inservice training for
lower secondary school teachers. The project emphasizes institution building
and improvements in teacher quality. The project provides construction,
equipment, books, teaching materials and related technical assistance, and has
three components. The first assists 16 provincial and 53 prefectural
institutes to train lower secondary teachers. The second supports three



ANNEX 4
-46 -                          Page 4 of 5
municipal institutes of education to develop the capacity to become
information research centers on teacher training. The third component aims to
improve the management capability of the teacher training system.
Textbook Development Project (1989-1995)
CR 2006 CHA - SDR 41.8 M ($57.0 M)
10.         The Textbook Development Project supports the textbook upgrading
program introduced by the Chinese Government in 1987. The principal
objectives are: (a) to improve the educational quality of textbooks at all
levels of schooling; (b) to increase the variety of available textbooks; and
(c) to improve the efficiency of textbook production. The project finances
civil works, equipment and technical assistance for five components. The
first assists the Government in updating and improving new primary and
secondary school textbooks. The second, third and fourth support key central
agencies in 22 provinces and 21 university presses, to expand typesetting and
printing capacity in order to meet growing demand and to improve the
production quality of textbooks. The fifth component provides for training of
publishing and printing staff from central agencies and university and
provincial publishing houses.
Vocational and Technical Education Project (1990-1995)
CR 2114 CHA - SDR 38.5 M ($50.0 M)
11.         The objective of this project is to improve the quality of
vocational and technical training in China. It concentrates on industrialized
provinces and municipalities and has four components: (a) development of
vocational training centers in 59 secondary vocational and technical schools
in ten provinces and three municipalities; (b) expansion and improvement of
laboratory and workshop instruction in nine technical teacher training
colleges and three university technical teacher training departments; (c)
establishment of one national and two regional VTE research and development
centers to improve the quality, efficiency, and cost-effectiveness of the VTE
system and to develop inexpensive teaching materials and equipment for the VTE
schools; and (d) improvement of the management capability of the VTE system.
Medium-Sized Cities Development Project (1990-1997)
LN 3286 CHA - $79.4 M, CR 2201 CHA - SDR 62.2 M ($80.8 M of which $14.1 M for
education)
12.         This project assists Changzhou, Luoyang and Shashi municipalities
to improve overall and sector planning and management, to formulate and
implement policies that better utilize existing facilities, to reduce waste in
the design of new investments, to provide more appropriate financing
mechanisms for local development, and to promote water pollution control at
the industrial enterprise level. The loan and credit finance investments to
support policy reforms in planning, management and municipal services.



ANNEX 4
- 47 -                       Page 5 of 5
Key Studies Development Proiect (1991-1996)
CR 2210 C-A - SDR 92.9 M ($131.2 M)
13.         The Key Studies Development Project supports the government's
plans to reform management of science and technology programs. The project
seeks: (a) to increase the output of scientific researchers trained to
international standards in master, doctoral and post-doctoral programs; (b) to
enhance the quality and productivity of research in strategic areas relevant
to long-term economic and social development; (c) to strengthen the management
of scientific research at both the national and laboratory levels; (d) to
provide a modern scientific infrastructure for Chinese scientists trained at
home and abroad; and (e) to encourage scientific cooperation across
institutional and national boundaries. The project consists of: (a) support
for research and graduate student training in 133 State Key Laboratories and
Special Laboratories affiliated with universities and with the Chinese Academy
of Sciences (CAS); (b) a pilot program to assist seven of the project
laboratories to improve management efficiency and the quality of research and
training of graduate students in science; (c) development of a demonstration
computer network that would link Tsinghua and Beijing Universities and the
computer center of the CAS, and establish an enhanced computing facility at
the CAS center; and (d) a program advisory group of Chinese and foreign
experts that would provide advice to implementing agencies on the overall
direction and progress of all components.
Education Development in Poor Provinces Project (1992-1998)
CR 2339 CHA - SDR 93.2 M ($130.0 M)
14.         The project works in 114 poor and remote counties in six of the
least developed provinces of China to support three main goals for the
development of education in the next decade: (a) to improve literacy, school
attendance ratios and school efficiency and quality by assisting the
provincial governments to implement nine year compulsory education; (b) to
support ongoing efforts to carry out institutional reforms needed to improve
the management of provincial universities, and their quality and efficiency;
and (c) to improve overall planning and management of provincial and municipal
educational services. To support the implementation of the compulsory
education law, the Project finances investments needed in small towns and
rural areas to support reforms in municipal and county education services. To
assist the process of restructuring higher education, the project supports
pilot projects in selected universities that are attempting to improve
efficiency through internal reorganization and mergers. Finally, to improve
planning and management of county education bureaus, the Project supports
adoption, in project counties, of software already developed in China to
collect and analyze data on teachers, students, infrastructure and resources.
It will also improve the student examination systems and the capacity to do
research and to prepare future investment plans.



- 48 -
ANNEX S
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
Summary of Support of Teacher Training by Bank Group and Government
Past Bank                                   Government
Province. etc.       Group Projects*        This Project          Funding Plan**
Beijing             US$ 7.30 million
Tianjin                 4.20                                    Y   2.00 million
Hebei                   3.80              US$ 7.10 million
Shanxi                                                             13.20
Nei Mongol              1.40                  3.00
Liaoning                3.95                  4.99                  8.00
Jilin                   4.20                  4.37                  2.20
Heilongjiang            1.90                  4.58                  4.40
Shanghai                8.00                                        4.00
Jiangsu                 2.05                  6.27                  2.00
Zhejiang                1.20                                       12.00
Anhui                   1.80                  4.83                  2.50
Fujian                  1.80                  5.62
Jiangxi                 3.30                  6.16
Shandong                1.90                 10.40
Henan                   3.40                  9.92
Hubei                   2.30                                        8.00
Hunan                   1.90                                       19.80
Guangdong               4.10                  5.62                  4.00
Guangxi                 1.80                  6.42                  2.50
Hainan                                        2.03
Sichuan                 4.50                 11.43
Guizhou                 1.70                                       15.00
Yunnan                  1.80                                       17.50
Shaanxi                 1.50                                       12.50
Gansu                   2.40                                       10.00
Qinghai                 1.20                                        5.00
Ningxia                                                             5.00
Xinjiang                0.80                                        7.50
US$74.20 million      US$92.74 million      Y 157.10 million
(US$29.00 million)
Source: SEdC
*   Does not include possible funding of teacher training colleges under the
Education in Poor Provinces Project
** Excludes civil works. Includes equipment, furniture, books and training.



EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
SOCIAL AND EDUCATIONAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECT PROVINCES
Highest Eduation Level (Percent ot Populations) 1/
Annual                                               Percent
(Million)   __    per Cavita       Junior Technical Hiaher Lower      Illiterate and
Province    Population Agricultural Income 21 Universit Colleae Secondarv Middle Middle Primary Semi-Literate 3/
Hebei           60.28      86.2     511      0.4    0.8      1.8   8.9  35.2   52.8        21.9
Nei Mongol      21.11      68.1      514     0.8    1.3      2.8  11.3  36.3   47.5        21.9
Liaoning        39.98      57.8      770     1.2    2.0      2.7  10.9  40.3   42.9        11.6
Jilin           25.15      60.9      643     1.2    1.8      3.0  13.4  34.3   46.3        14.3
Heilongjiang    34.77      57.3     641      0.8    2.0      2.8  12.6  37.2   44.7        15.1
Jiangsu         68.17      79.4      702     0.9    1.4      1.9  10.4  36.9   48.4        22.6
Anhui           56.29      86.0      497     0.7    1.0      1.8   6.5  32.6   57.4        34.4
Fujian          30.61      81.0      609     0.8    1.2      2.3   8.3  25.0   62.5        22.9
Jiangxi         38.28      81.3      499     0.5    1.0      2.0   8.6  28.1   59.9        23.8
Shandong        83.43      86.3      608     0.4    0.9       1.9   8.2  36.2   52.4       23.1
Henan           86.14      86.6     441      0.3    0.8      1.5   8.7  38.4   50.2        22.9
Guangdong       63.21      77.4      776     0.7    1.3       1.9  10.2  30.8   55.1       15.2
Guangxi         42.53      86.0      431     0.5    0.7       1.8   7.6  25.7   60.5       16.5
Hainan           6.42      81.9      457     0.4    1.3      2.0  12.3  33.1   50.9        21.3
Sichuan        106.37      85.7      447     0.6    0.8       1.7   5.7  30.1   61.2       21.4
TOTALS         762.74      80.2      565     0.6    1.1       2.0   8.9  33.7   53.5       21.2
Source: Calculations based on 1990 Census and World Bank Reports
Notes: 1/ Percent of population aged 6 and over
2/ 1986 figures, Yuan
3/ Percent of population aged 15 and over



-50 -                       ANNEX7
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
COVERAGE OF TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
PHYSICAL
Teacher Training Institutions
Not Included      Prolect 5/       61
11   2/   31   4  Construction    Librarv
Province       ITa  Included   A                       r lm       Books
Hebei            13       10    3    0    0    0           97.7     3060
Nei Mongol        6        5    1    0    0    0           19.5     1020
Liaoning         15        6    2    7    0    0           43.2     1680
Jilin             9        5    3    1    0    0           32.0     1490
Heilongjiang     10        6    1    2    1    0           82.7     1582
Jiangsu          11        8    1    1    1    0           72.5     3742
Anhui            12        9    1    1    1    0           59.7     1735
Fujian            9        8    1    0    0    0           47.0     1587
Jiangxi          10        8    2    0    0    0           57.3     2457
Shandong         16       14    1    0    1    0           55.6     4589
Henan            14       12    2    0    0    0           62.8     4478
Guangdong        12        7    5    0    0    0           39.3     1528
Guangxi          11        9    1    1    0    0           37.7     2574
Hainan            2        2    0    0    0    0          31.0       536
Sichuan          18       15    2    0    0    1           69.7     5019
TOTALS          168      124   26   13    4    1          807.9   37077
Notes:
11 Received assistance under a past IDA credit, or sufficiently
attended to by other means.
2/ Changed to community institute status, or otherwise moved.
3/ Responsibility of a sectoral ministry.
4/ Does not train lower middle school teachers.
5/ Thousands of square meters according to provincial project proposal.
6/ Thousands of volumes in project institution libraries.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
- 51 -
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
COVERAGE OF TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
ENROLLMENT AND STAFF
(1991\
Enrollment        Teachers           Total Staff
Province         Number % Female  Number % Female  Number Yo Female
Hebei              13604      52.2     1933      38.7     4404      37.9
Nei Mongol          5529      49.3     1137      29.1     2494      34.0
Liaoning            8727      59.3     1629      37.3     3043      41.8
Jilin               8580      52.5     1498      42.4     3219      41.0
Heilongjiang        8903      52.1     1473      36.3     3604      39.1
Jiangsu            20356      40.2     3083      23.0     6554      29.1
Anhui              11470      27.3     1870      23.1     3687      28.0
Fujian              9618      32.3     1245      30.4     2496      34.1
Jiangxi            14669      26.2     1891      23.0     4009      31.5
Shandong           27192      37.4     3575      24.8     8443      31.5
Henan              22559      36.7     3708      26.7     8163      33.2
Guangdong          13498      35.6     1523      25.3     3362      34.5
Guangxi             9612      39.0     1767      26.4     3881      37.8
Hainan              2633      35.1      397      23.4      853      38.3
Sichuan            28236      36.8     3406      29.2     7381      36.9
TOTALS           205186       39.3    30135      28.5    65593      34.5



ANNEX 7
- 52 -                      Page 3 of 3
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
CONDITIONS IN LOWER MIDDLE SCHOOLS OF PROJECT PROVINCES
Full Time   Students      Averaae
Province          Enrollment    Teachers   rer Teacher   Class Size
Hebei                1763643       130365         13.5           46
Nei Mongol            865805        62351         13.9           46
Liaoning             1552174       111266         14.0           48
Jilin                1015038        68351         14.9           47
Heilongjiang         1534309       107263         14.3           46
Jiangsu              2412107       139788         17.3           49
Anhui                1907269       106587         17.9           54
Fujian                893792        57040         15.7           47
Jiangxi              1545499        85755         18.0           55
Shandong             3199604       211967         15.1           53
Henan                3033004       202542         15.0           52
Guangdong            1979067       110035         18.0           50
Guangxi              1196182        66633         18.0           52
Hainan                193056        13697         14.1           48
Sichuan              3409642       198032         17.2           48
PROJECT TOTAL       26500191      1671672         15.9           50
NATIONAL TOTAL    38686508        2470355         15.7           49
Source: SEdC 1991



- 53 -
ANNEX 8
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
PLANS FOR UPGRADING OF TEACHER COLLEGE FACILITIES
(Thousands of sguare meters of construction)
Classrooms
Laboratori       and Libraries
Province         IQ       M          F    iehab,   sN    Rehab.
Hebei              97.7     49.6       1.5     43.6      3.0
Nei Mongol         19.5      2.0       0.0     17.5      0.0
Uaoning            43.2      3.0       1.7     21.5     17.0
Jilin              32.0     17.6       4.4      8.0      2.0
Heilongjiang       82.7     36.4       6.1     37.3      3.0
Jiangsu            72.5     29.4      10.4     20.1     12.6
Anhui              59.7     23.2       0.0     36.5      0.0
Fujian             47.0     31.8       9.0      5.9      0.3
Jiangxi            57.3     26.2       2.5     28.6      0.0
Shandong           55.6      6.3       6.7     40.2      2.4
Henan              62.8     35.7       3.6     21.4      2.2
Guangdong          39.3     31.7       0.0      7.6      0.0
Guangxi            37.7     16.9       0.0     20.8      0.0
Hainan             31.0     13.3      4.7      13.0      0.0
Sichuan            69.7     28.0       7.4     29.0      5.4
TOTALS            807.9    351.1      58.0    351.0     47.8



- 54 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
INSTRUCTIONAL EOUIPMENT
1.          Eguipment Lists.  The project will support the purchase of
instructional equipment, spares and consumables together with training for
equipment use. The equipment will be allocated to institutions based on
criteria related to college size, course programs and current holdings,
according to surveys and visits already conducted.  A catalogue of teaching
equipment essential for the demonstration experiments and practice contained
in the Syllabus for Normal Colleges has been prepared by a panel of experts.
It includes basic necessities for physics, chemistry, biology, geography,
music, fine arts, physical education and psychology.  This catalog has been
reviewed by the Association and found acceptable.  In addition to specific
subject requirements the catalogue contains library, computer, audio visual
aids and language laboratory equipment.   Provision is made for consumables
and 'live materials'. For all categories except music, physical education,
psychology, library and computer an optional list is included. The catalogue
covers materials and equipment needed for teaching in the LMS, excludes purely
research equipment but includes low cost items - estimated to cost less than
200 Yuan. The total value of equipment is estimated at 4.34 million Yuan for
essentials and 5.16 million Yuan including optional items (Attachment 1).
2.          Procedures.  Project institutions will be asked to choose, from
the catalogue that has been widely circulated, the equipment they require both
to replenish and replace existing stock and to cater to new introductions into
and modifications of the syllabus. The 124 institutions will submit their
lists through their credit office to the credit leadership group within the
Provincial Education Office. Here the lists will be reviewed for their
relevance and need. The Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of Sedc
will arrange experts to collect and check the equipment lists and then carry
out the tendering and procurement according to the procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
3.          Spares and Consumables.  Within the procurement of equipment,
provision will be made for spares estimated to be sufficient for two years.
Provinces and institutions will be expected to guarantee sufficient funds for
a sufficient supply of spares and consumables thereafter. Provisions for
equipment maintenance should be guaranteed for a year, after which provinces
and institutions will be expected to be responsible for this through regular
budgetary provision estimated at about five percent of equipment cost, either
on their own accounts or, in the case of especially sophisticated equipment,
through insurance provided by the supplier.



- 55 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
4.    Training for Eguipment Use.  During the first four project years, a
total of 740 laboratory directors and 760 technicians will be trained
initially for four weeks and then for a further one week follow up course.
One week courses will be mounted for 500 laboratory administrative staff. An
overseas study tour of approximately will be organized for five laboratory
directors.



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
EQUIPMENT DISTRIBUTION BY SUBJECT SECTORS IN THE NORMAL COLLEGES
(Value in RMB Yuan)
TOTALS
Live   Excluding    Including
Subiect      Necessary  Optional  Low Cost Consumable Materials  Optional    Optional
Physics         759174   149100    76417         5000         0   840591      989691
Chemistry       551560   190550   135000    100000            0   786560       977110
Biology         448640    56710    78000        75000      5000   606640      663350
Geography       234862    42200    18535         3000         0   256397      298597
Music           406626    60000       4720       2000         0   413346      473346
P.T.            325660      7634    26025       24320         0   376005      383639
Fine Arts       107760    12000       4860       8000         0   120620      132620
Psychology       73500         0      1400       1000         0    75900        75900
Library         172740         0         0       7000         0   179740      179740
Computer        372080         0         0      12000         0   384080      384080
Audio Lab       106560   135000       1000       1000         0   108560      243560
Audio Visual    138360      4500      7000       1000         0   146360       150860
Teach. Admin.   140500    70000          0          0         0   140500      210500
TOTALS         3838022   727694   352957    239320         5000  4435299    5162993                       > >
rt
iU 
n v
ft



- 57 -
ANEX 10
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
LIBRARY BOOKS AND EQUIPMENT
1.              Library Development.  The project will support the purchase
of books and library equipment. A survey (Attachment 1) of current library
holdings, staffing, equipment, services offered and planned building works
among the 124 TTIs indicate a proposed program of library development.
Under this plan, library construction will be included in the project's
civil works component, reading places will be increased from approximately
48,000 to 65,800, that is, from about one place for every four students to
one for every three students. The targets of this library development
program are to increase opening hours to 70 a week, establish an open shelf
policy in 50% of the libraries; computerize major library operations;
increase each library's stock by 3,000 to 4,000 additional essential books;
and upgrade staff at different levels.
2.              Eguipment.  In order to make things more convenient and
efficient for the reader the project will supply equipment with first
priority going to the acquisition of book shelves, book cases and
protective devices used in open shelved reading rooms; book duplicating
equipment; audio-visual equipment; Chinese and foreign language word
processors; and mini computers with auxiliary equipment. These items are
included and costed in the general instructional equipment catalogue from
which each college will choose.
3.              Books.  For some time book acquisition has been impeded by
soaring prices and inadequate funding to upgrade stock holdings. The
project will supply current publications, both Chinese and foreign, and
make college book holdings more appropriate to course needs. Emphasis will
be placed on acquiring dictionaries, reference books and materials needed
to improve knowledge of recent developments in teaching subject methodology
and content. In choosing books libraries will be advised to ensure that
there was a balance across subject areas while at the same time
concentrating on materials required by the educational reform and by
emerging vocational and technical teacher training programs. These will
include materials that supplement existing stock in science and technology,
agriculture and industrial production, law, economics, population control
and environmental protection. Book lists will be reviewed by the libraries
committee of SEdC. The normal colleges will be advised that this supply of
books should be seen as supplementing, not replacing, the funds allocated
for book acquisition in their annual operating budgets.



- 58 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
4.              Library Staff Training.  To improve library efficiency the
project will support training of a substantial percentage of library staff
as in Attachment 2. Courses will be managed on a regional basis by each of
five universities. Two foreign experts will be contracted to assist in
courses in the application of new technologies to library management. The
results of these training activities will be disseminated through, inter
alia, regional networks of library staff.



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE ON>L LIBRARIES STOCK FACLITIES AND STAFFING
NAK4 E OF      | IN STS  ST UDENT S T EAGHINGESSR  iiBRARY    ST A i F;  STUDENIT S; READING READS/            PL ADING PL  BOOKS   FOREIGN  BOOKS   STUDENT    B'OKS   Ti-ACI1ER BOOKS PER
PROVINCE  -                         STAFF       _      STAFF    LID STAFF   LID STAFF  PLACES  PER STUDEN                  __   LANG BKS PER STU  PER FLBK  PER TE.ACH  PER FLBK  LIB STAFF
SICHUAN               IS      29,908      3.422   8 74        484         7 07       61 79     7807           0 26     4,616.000         196    154 34     152 59     I,341n I2      17 46     9,53719
SSHANDONG            14      20,873      3,619    577        434         834         4809      5,160          025      4.589.000        294    21985        71 00     1,26803       1231    10.57373
JIU1                  5       8.723       1.742    5 01      203         8 58        42 97     2J136          0 24     1,476,000        120    169 21       7269        847 30      14 52     7.270 94
GUANDONG              7       8.921       1.091   8 18       172         6 34        51 87     3.342          0 37     1,529,000         68    171 39      131 19     1,401 47      16 04     8.809 53
JIANGSU               8      15,119       2,087    7 24      274         7 62        55 18     2.723          0 18     3.477,000        230    229 98       65 73    1,666 03        9 07    12.609 78
JIANGXI               8      14.936       1,995    7 49      275         725         54 31     4.640          0 31     2.312,000         98    154 79      152 41     1.158 90      20 36     8.407 27
iLIAONING       I    6         9.603      1,675    5 73       182         920         52 76     2,322         0 24      1.614,000        183    169 07       52 48      963 58        9 15     8.868 13
AN UI                 9       11,653      1.816   6 42       226         8 04        51 56     2,116          018      1,734.000          0    148 80        ERR        954 85       ERR      7.672 57
HEBEI                10      13,604       1,976    6 88      295         G70         46 12     3,041          0 22     2.951,000        163    216 92       83 46     1,493 42      12 12    10,003 39                 UI
HEILONGJIANG          6       9,198       1,431    643       159         900         5785      1,670          018      1,453,000          0    15797         ERR      1,01537        ERR      9.13836                  .0
HENAN                12      22,724       3.556   6 39       455         702         49 94     4,299          0 19     4,478,000        277    197 06       82 04     1,259 28      12 84     9,841 76
FUJIAN         I     8        80.02       1,336   6 59       106         7 10        47 32     2.416          0 27     1,569,000        136    178 25       64 72     1,174 40       9 82     8.435 48
GUANGXI               9      12.091       1,834    6 59      237         774         51 02     3,104          0 26     2,487,000          0    205 69        ERR      1.356 05       ERR    10.493 67
HAINAN                2        2.696       402   6 71          54        744         49 93       598          0 22       473,000         31    175 45       86 97     1,176 62      12 97     8.759 26
NEIMENGGU             5       6,322       1.213   5 21       165         735         38 32     2,484          0 39     1,018,000        188    161 02       33 63       839 24        645     6.169 70
TOTAL              124      195,173     29.195    6 69     4,367         6 69    =4469    47,938              0 25 _35.776.000         1984    18330        9837      1,22542    _1472          ,19209
A 21ibrary wk I
rjQ



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
Annual  I n-Coun try  Tra I n ina PI an  Plor. L I brary  S tafr 
Proposed Ef f ec t i ve Teach i ng Serv i ces Proj ec t
August.   1992.
llo       hlim  of Seminars                  Timins                        post                  Number of                      Provinces
______________________                        ~~Parti  c  ipantis
III    Library Directors
IJI                                 Second ball of J993        E8st Chila Normal Unlv.             42              Jiangsu. Pujian, Henan, Shandong
112                                 First hail of 1994         East China Normal UnIv.             41              Jiangai,  Anhui, Guangxl, llebei,
laner Mongolia
103                                 Second hall of 1994        Bail China Normal Univ.              41             SIchun   Guengdong,  llamnan
______________                          ___________   il~~~eilongliang, Liaoning. .illin
200    Collection/Development
Cataloging
20I                                 Second hail of 199J    NanJin  VninorsilY                      42             Jiangsu, Fujian, Henan, Shandong
202                                 First half or 1994         Sichuan University                   41             Slchu:s; Gusngdong. lIlniT   in
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I__ _ _ _ _        ,__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  BeI lo glo n .  L im nnin   J i l
203                                 Second hall ol 1994        Dallan Unly. of Technology           41             Jlangxi, Anhul, Cuangxi, Hebei,
Innor Mongaolla
300    Reader ServiceI
301                                 Second hall 1993           Manlnsg Unlversity                   42             Jiangsu, Fujian, lienan, Shandong                              0
302                                 First hail ot 1994         Sichuan University                   41             Sichuan  Cuengdong. llaina,
__________________          ______________________                               Il~~~~~~ello ngllang . Lia0oning,  Jilin
303                                 Second helf of 1994        Dalian Univ. of 7echnology           41             Jlangal,  Anhui, Cuangxl, llebei,
Inner iongolis
400     Librare automaIion
(long term m n rs)
401                                          1993              Chon vdu .ln1v   of Science          62             Jiangal.  Anhul,  Cu.n.don B ainan,
and 1___h__l__                                      Llaeln  Jilln,  Oel ong lang
402                                          1994              Chongdu Univ. o1 Science             62             Jlangsu, Shandong  PuJ In, Henan,
and Technology                                      51chusn,  Innor Mongolia
500     Overseas Study lour                  1993
Equipment and Facilltlet
Supplies  Department of SEdC
-                                                                                                                    N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



- 61 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 12
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMMARY
The following is a description of the technical assistance
activities under the Effective Teaching Services Project. Data for this Annex
are taken from reports presented by various units of the SEdC. These data, as
well as unit costs for each activity, were discussed in detail with SEdC staff
and represent understandings between the appraisal mission and the SEdC as to
the range, scope and scale of technical assistance activities to be supported
by the proposed project. Detailed terms of reference are included in the
project file.
Note: All study tours are of three weeks duration
I. INSTITUTIONAL ELEMENT
A.    Instructional Equipment - Training
1.    Laboratorv Directors - 740 participants
two training seminars, four and one months in duration
2.    Laboratory Technicians - 760 participants
two training seminars, four and two months in duration
3.    Laboratory Administrative Staff - 500 participants
one training seminar of one month
4.    Laboratory Directors Overseas Study Tour - 5 participants
B.    Library Materials - Training
1.    Short-term Recurrent Staff Training - 372 participants
one training seminar of 20 days
2.    Long Term Staff Trainine - 124 participants
one year training
3.    National Seminars - 124 participants, 2 foreign experts
(a)   2 7-day training seminars of 62 participants each
(b)   2 foreign experts
4.    Overseas Study Tour - 6 participants



- 62 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 12
C.    Staff Upgrading - In country
1.    Teaching Faculty - 5332 participants
(a)   entrusted post graduates
744 units for 3 years
(b)   assistant advanced study classes
1736 units for one year
(c)   key backbone teachers advanced study
248 units for one year study
(d)   domestic visiting scholars
124 units for one year study
(e)   short term training
2480 for one-half month
2.    Administrative Staff - 868 participants
(a)   high level administrative staff- college
presidents
124 units for one-half month
(b)   teaching administrative staff
248 units for one-half month
(c)   financial administrative staff
248 units for one-half month
(d)   high level laboratory and library
management - Vice-presidents
124 units for one-half month
D.    Staff Upgrading - Overseas -
1.    Teaching Faculty - 108 participants
108 teaching faculty one year overseas fellowships
2.    Administrative Staff - 27 participants
27 administrative staff one year overseas fellowships



- 63 -                   ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 12
II. MANAGEMENT ELEMENT
A.    National Level Management Development - Training
1.    Prolect Administration Staff Training Study Tours -
24 participants
four overseas study tours of 6 participants each
2.    National level staff training -
a)    one year overseas training fellowships for 8 SEdC staff
from Planning, Finance and Teacher Training Dept. and FILO.
b)    training for SEdC end-users - Planning, Financial, and
Teaching Training Departments
(i)   two 10 day in-country seminars for
20 staff persons participating in
B.2.(a) and (b) below
(ii)  two overseas study tours of 7 participants each
B.    Provincial Level Management - Training and Specialist Services
1.    SRecialist Services -  9 foreign experts
nine foreign experts for in-country training
seminars/workshops - two for each of B.2.(a),
(c), (e), and three for (d)
2.    Training - in country - 279 participants
(a)   two 10 day seminars for 60
provincial level planners and statisticians
(b)   two 10 day seminars for 124
institutional level planners and statisticians
(c)   (i)   two 7 day workshops for 30 provincial
level financial administrators (2 from each
province), each participant both workshops



- 64 -                 ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 12
(ii) 2 Chinese financial specialists
(d)   (i)   two 7 day workshop for 30 provincial
level evaluation specialists (2 per province)
(ii) one 7 day workshop for 23 national level
evaluation specialists
(iii) 9 Chinese evaluation specialists
(e)   one 10 day workshop for 35 provincial level
administrators for facilities management
3.    Training - Overseas and in-country - 30 participants
overseas and in-country one year training for a total of
30 provincial level planners and statisticians
C.    Teacher Information System (TIS) - Training and Specialist Service
1.    Institutional TIS Training - 744 participants
7 day seminars for 744 members of TIS staff of
124 institutions
2.    County Level TIS Training - 1410 participants
(a)   7 day computer operation seminars
for 1128 members of 141 survey county
level TIS staff
(b)   7 day computer application seminars
for 282 members of 141 survey counties TIS staff
3.    Project Provinces Training - 165 participants
(a)   7 day seminars of 2 members of each
of the provincial TIS leadership staff
(b)   7 day network seminars for 2 members
of each of the provincial TIS staff
(c)   7 day computer database seminars for
2 members of each of the provincial TIS staff
(d)   15 day county database seminars for
2 members of each of the provincial TIS staff
(e)   15 day basic education database seminars
for 2 members of each of the provincial TIS staff



- 65 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 12
(f)   15 day higher education institution database seminars
for 2 members of each of the provincial TIS staff
(g)   21 day study tour abroad for 15 provincial
level TIS staff
4.    SEdC and EMIC Staff - 209 participants, 2 foreign experts
(a)   200 staff weeks - at 7 days a week -
TIS training for SEdC staff
(b)   international costs for SEdC training:
(i)   2 foreign experts to assist in training
of 200 SEdC staff in II.A.4.(a) above.
(ii)  4 persons study abroad for one-half year
(iii) 5 persons on one 3 week study tour abroad
III, QUALITY ENHANCEMENT ELEMENTS
A.    Core Seminars - Five Seminars
1)    Individual Seminars:
a)    Chinese participants from 15 provinces (200 total)
b)    Chinese Co-Chairmen (5 persons)
c)    International Co-chairmen (5 persons)
d)    Seminar Materials/costs
e)    Study Tour (10 persons)
2.    Pilot Projects
dissemination and research activities for
each institutional support of each core seminar
3.    Provincial level dissemination seminars
15 day seminars for a total of 1,250
participants from 15 provinces



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
ANNUAL PLAN FOR OVERSEAS TRAINING
One Year Overseas
for Provincial Staff          One Year Overseas
One Year Overseas              (Administration and           One Year Overseas
for College Faculty           Management)                    for SEdC Staff         Study Tours
(1 Year )                      C year)                    (l rear)             3 Weks Each
1993                   --                            --                             1*               Laboratory DLrectors (5 participants)
*National level menagement - 1 - (6 participants)
*LLbrary Directors (6 participants)
*Core Seminar Study Tour - 1 - (4 participants)
*Core Seminar Study Tour - 2 - (2 participants)
*Core Seminar Study Tour - 3 - (4 participants)
1994                   --                            15                             2-              *Provincial Level TIS staff (15 participants)
3              *National level management - 2 - (6 participants)
*Planning and Management - 1 - (7 participants)
*National level management - 3 - (6 participants)
1995                   30                             --                            1*                Natl. and prov. level TIS staff (5 participants)
3              *Planning and management - 2 - (7 participants)
*National level anagement - A - (6 participants)
1996                   50                             15                             2                         ----
1997                   28                             12                            --                         -
TOTALS                108                             42                             12             79 three-week study tours                                            p-tF
*These are 1/2 year TIS positions



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES FROJECT
ANNUAL PLAN FOR IN-COUNTRY TRAINING FOR TEACHING FACULTY
Post Graduates        Assistant Advanced            DomeatLc Viitlng              Key Backbone      Short-term            Total
(3 years)             Study Classes                 Scholars                   Teacher Class      Training
(1 year)                    (1 year)                      (1 year)        (half month)
1993               248                    496                          40                             62              496                1,342
1994               248                    496                          42                             62              496                1,344
1995               248                    496                          42                             62              496                1,344
1996                -                     248                          -                              62              496                  806
1997                -                       -                                          -                              496                  496
0'
TOTALS              744                  1f 7321.iQ]480                                                                                      321
-4|
o  -
X X.
_l4



EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERtVICES PROJECT
ANNUAL PLAN FOR IN-COUNTRY TRAINING FOR MANAGEMENT
Provincial. Level      Institutional          Facility        Evaluation        Financial
SEdC Planners             Planners                Planners            Maaemn           Seminar         Maaen            Total
aI                                                          cidi
1993                         10                      60                                              -53                             -           123
bl                                           E~~~~~~~~~~~lI4
1994                                                 15                                              -            30                30            85
1995                         10                                             124                     35             --                            169
1996                                                                                                 - --                           30            30
1997                                                                                                                                  
TOTALS                       20                      75                     124                     35            83                60           407                    O
Notes
lI      Seminars of 10 days duration
kI      Training of one year duration
Si      23 seminars of one week duration plus 30 pairs of seminars
one week duration each
dli     Pairs of seminars of one veek duration each
>-
i-



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
ANNUAL PLAN FOR IN-COUNTRY TRAINING FOR TIS STAFF
Provincial TIS Staff Traininx
Country    Basic       Higher
InstitutLonal           Country Levei               Center    Network  Database  Education  Education    SEdC and EMIC
TIS Traning           5TIS Training             Directors    Staff    Staff    Database   Database              Staff          Total
1993                                         141                      -          15         -          -            _              -               156
1994                 372                     423                      -          15         -          -           -               50              860
1995                 372                     564                      15                    15         -           15              50            1,031
1996                  -                      282                      -           -         15         15           15             50              377
1997                  -                       _                       15          -          -         15            -             50               80
TOTALS              744                    13410                      30         30         30                      30            200            2.504             'D
Duration (days)        7                     7                          7        7          7          15           7              7
0Z



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
ANNUAL PLAN FOR IN-COUiTRY TRAINING FOR ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Teaching            Flnancial          Laboratory and
College         AdminLstrative        Administrative           Library         National Llbrary
Presidents             Staff                Staff           Vice Presidents         Seminars            Total
1993              24                 49                     49                   24                   24                170
1994              25                 50                     50                   25                   25                175
1995              25                 50                     50                   25                   25                175
1996              25                 50                     50                   25                   25                175
1997              25                 49                     49                   25                   25                173
TOTALS           124                248                    248                  124                  124                868
Duration (days)  15                  15                     15                   15                    7                                                              i
CD
'Ii 
O Q
0



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
IN-COUNTRY TRAINING PLAN FOR LABORATORY STAFF MEMBERS
Year                        1993                               1994                            1995                 1996
Province                                     Administrative
Total   Sub-total Technicians    Staff    Sub-total  Directors Technicians Sub-total Directors  Technicians Directors
Sichuan            418       106         46           60        89         44         45       135         44         91        88
Shandong           386        98         42           56        83         41         42       124         40         84        81
Henan              368        92         40           52        79         39         40       119         39         80        78
Hebei              264        67         29           38        56         28         28        85         28         57        56
Guangxi            245        62         27           35        52         26         26        79         26         53        52
Jiangsu            243        61         26           35        52          26        26        78         26         52        52
Jiangxi            225        57         24           33        48         24         24        72         24         48        48
Guangdong          210        53         23            30       45          22        23        68         22         46        44
Fujian             210        53         23           30        45         22         23        68         22         46        44
Liaoning           193        48         21           27        42         21         21        62         20         42        41
Anhui              193        48         21           27        42          21        21        62         20         42        41
Heilongjiang       175        44         19           25        38          19        19        56         18         38        37
Jilin              158        41         17            24       34          17         17       50          16         34        33
Inner Mongolia     123        31         14            17       26          13         13       40          13        27        26
Hainan              89        21         10            11       20          10         10       29           9         20        19
TOTALS            3500       882        382           500      751         373        378     1127         367        760       740
1. Timing:                        4 months   1 month                4 months  4 months              4 months  2 months   1 month                  0 
Note: Above figures denote number of training seminars to be provided for 2000 participants



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
IN-COUNTRY TRAINING PLAN FOR LIBRARY STAFF
Number of
Title of Seminar           Triming                 Host            Participants           Provinces
Library Directors (20 days)                                                 124
Second half of 1993   East China Normal Univ.       42     Jlangsu, Fujlan, Henan, Shandong
First half of 1994    East China Normal Univ.       41     Jiangxi, AnhI, Guangxi, Hebei,
Inner Mongolia
Second halt of 1994   East China Normal Univ.       41     Sichuan, Guangdong, Hainan,
Heilongjiang, Llaoning, Jilin
Collectlon/Development                                                      124
Cataloging (20 days)
Second half of 1993   Nanjing University            42     Jiangsu, Fujian, Henan, Shandong
First half of 1994    Sichuan University            41     Sichuan, Guangdong. Halnan,
Heilongjlang, Liaoning, Jilin
Second halt of 1994   Dalian Univ.of Technology     41     Jiangxi, Anhi, Guangxi, Hebei,
Inner Mongolia
Reader Service (20 days)                                                    124
Second half of 1993   Nanjing University            42     Jiangsu, Fujian, Henan, Shandong
First half of 1994    Sichuan University            41     Sichuan, Guangdong, Halnan,
Heilongjiang, Llaoning, Jilin
Second half of 1994   Dalian Univ.of Technology     41     Jiangxl, Anhi, Guangxi, Hebei,
Inner Mongolia
Library Automation -                                                        124
long term Training
(one year)               1993          Chengdu Univ.of Science      62      Jiangxi, Anhui, Guangdong, Hainan,                       Z
and Technology                       Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongliang                         o  Z
Hebei, Guangxl -,
1994         Chengdu Univ. of Science      62      Jiangsu, Shandong, Fujian, Henan,                     0
and Technology                       Sishuan, Inner Mongolia



- 73 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
Teacher Information Systems
General
1.          The project includes the equipment, civil works and software
needed to make physical provision for teacher information systems (TIS) at the
institutional, county, provincial and central levels. Computer hardware and
peripherals, related equipment such as furniture and air conditioning, and
software packages are provided in the project budget. Where civil works are
provided for, they will be entirely funded from government sources. Data
collection, software development for application to specific teacher systems
and other activities utilizing the hardware and software thus provided will be
the responsibility of the project institutions and the governments where the
applications take place. The TIS will operate within the framework of the
existing management information systems (MIS), though only the teacher
information aspect will be supported by the project. It is understood, of
course, that the hardware and software will in due course also benefit the
operation of more general MISs as applied to education. Training will also be
provided, as is described in the body of this report.
2.          The TIS will be applied to all quantitative record-keeping,
projections and accounting having to do with teachers. This may include, but
need not be limited to, teacher supply, teacher loading, teacher
qualifications, teacher assignment, time until retirement, pre-service and in-
service training, and teacher salary records. Appropriate software
applications will be developed to carry out this work, according to the
location, administrative level and priority of the information use. This
development will be coordinated by the MIC of SEdC and will be focussed on the
needs of the end-users of the information, mostly at provincial levels and
lower. The content and timing of all aspects of development of the TIS,
including both hardware and software, will be subject to review, comment and
agreement by the Association. Special attention will be paid to TIS
development during project supervision missions.
Institutional Level
3.          Each of the 124 teacher training institutions supported under the
project will have a TIS unit. The budget estimate for hardware and software
is US$6000 per institution, covering equipment as follows:
Microcomputer (2)
Printer (2)
Uninterruptible power supply (2)
Software (2)



- 74 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
The total base cost for 124 institutions is therefore US$744 thousand. This
is included in the project budget under the cost of instructional equipment.
County Level
4.          From the 15 projected project provinces, 141 counties have been
selected as sites for TIS implementation. Each county will be provided with
equipment and software to facilitate TIS development and maintenance. Because
more immediate methods will not be required initially, TIS at the county level
will use floppy disks for data exchange with normal college and provincial
units. At county level, standard TIS provision will consist of one each of
the following hardware:
- Microcomputer
- Printer
- Uninterruptible power supply (UPS)
Minimum technical specifications for the microcomputer will be:
- 386DX 33 MHz
- 4MB RAM (expandable to 16MB)
- 80 MB hard drive
- 1.44MB and 1.2MB floppy drives
- VGA color monitor
- Chinese character set supported
5.          The initial plan was to use dot matrix printers, though laser
printers are also being considered to yield better performance at greater
cost. This substitution will depend on adequate Chinese character set
support, sufficient budget and availability of suitable technical support at
the county level. The decision will be made on a county-by-county basis. The
need for UPS and power stabilization units should be confirmed and appropriate
specifications developed. SEdC may wish to procure systems offering power
conditioning and battery backup in the same unit.
6.          The budget estimate for hardware and software at the county level
is US$3000 per set. Some of the counties already have some or all of the
equipment needed. A base cost of US$300 thousand has been used for project
costing.
Provincial Level
7.          The Education Bureau of each project province will establish a TIS
unit within its existing MIS. Provision of hardware and software for this
unit will vary according to the size of the province and the level of its
development. Provisional budget estimates have been made and are included in
the Project File.



- 75 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
8.          SEdC had earlier developed general specifications for a typical
system configuration using a mixed environment combining host/terminal and
client/server architectures. Based on recommendations made by the project
preparation mission, however, it reconsidered in favor of the increased cost-
effectiveness available from using client/server processing only. Rather than
concentrating computer resources within the MIS group, a distributed LAN
alternative will be used. A typical configuration will consist of three
connected departmental LANs, for the finance, planning, and MIS sections of a
provincial Education Bureau. Each LAN will include: a 486 50MHz server, with
12MB RAM, 1GB hard disk and tape backup; ten 386 client PCs; and three laser
printers. Such a system will provide superior performance at lower budget
than the original proposal. In addition, using, the client/server
architecture, it will be possible to purchase the needed hardware and software
in stages. The initial need will be limited, so a portion of the system could
be purchased the outset, and the remainder in two or three years. The
benefits available from this experience and from the rapid technical
developments expected in the computer field could be used in the writing the
specifications for the second procurement.
9.          A total of US$3.25 million has been budgeted for hardware and
software at the provincial level, based on the phased procurement of
client/server architecture. A budget of US$0.95 million for supporting
furniture and equipment is also included for a total of US$4.20 million base
cost.
Central Level
10.         Based on a year-long study, SEdC concluded that it is uneconomic
to upgrade its existing IBM-compatible mainframe installed in 1985, and plans
to move to a new "open systems" environment. General specifications for the
central TIS at SEdC headquarters have been prepared based on the client/server
architecture discussed above for the provincial case. Servers equivalent to
but generally more powerful than those at the provincial level will be used.
Technical specifications were developed during project appraisal and are
included in the project file. The total cost for hardware and software is
estimated at US$1.40 million. A budget of US$0.27 million for supporting
furniture equipment is also included for a total of US$1.67 million.
Summary
11.         The current estimated cost of all TIS components is therefore:
Teacher training institutions (124)   US$0.74 million
Counties (141)                              0.30
Provinces (15)                              4.20
Central                                     1.67
TOTAL                             US$6.91 million
of which US$6.17 million is budgeted under the management element of the
project and US$0.74 million under the institutional element.



ANNFX 13
- 76 -                         Page 1 of 5
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
TEACHING METHODOLOGY CORE SEMINARS
Summary
l.          The objective of these seminars will be the development of best
Chinese and international teaching methods and practices appropriate to the
Chinese reality, with a primary focus on innovative teaching methodologies and
a secondary focus on subject area curricular materials. There are five
seminars covering English, mathematics, biology, physics and chemistry
teaching. There will be approximately 200 participants trained at the
national level and some 1250 at the provincial level. Funds will also be
provided to support two pilot programs connected with each seminar, to
experiment with the ways of disseminating widely the ideas and practices
developed in the seminars. Participants in the national level seminars will
become instructors in the provincial level seminars and will be expected to
produce teaching and other materials for them. The national level seminars
will 'Se led by a small number of highly qualified international and Chinese
experts.
2.          Each seminar will be preceded by an international study tour for
the Chinese instructors, in order to examine best practices in the relevant
teaching methodologies. The Chinese study tour participants will be hosted
abroad by the international instructors with whom they will jointly teach the
seminar.
3.          Each of the national level seminars will be held in a different
SEdC-administered normal university. Each project province will send two or
three participants, who will then become instructors at the provincial level
dissemination seminars to be held at project-supported normal colleges. The
latter institutions have been chosen because of their efforts to innovate,
experiment with and introduce new teaching methods.
4.          Additionally, some normal colleges will be chosen as pilot
projects to carry out research and further testing of teaching methodology.
These institutions will need to commit substantial staff and institutional
resources to this work, for which they will be compensated by the project.
(see criteria for selection in Para 10 below)
5.          The Teaching Methodology Core Seminars have been developed during
discussions among the mission, the SEdC and the Chairman of the Innovation
Advisory Group (IAG). The appraisal mission confirmed with the SEdC and the
IAG the component's objectives, scope and scale as outlined above, and
discussed implementation in some detail. Implementation of the Core Seminar
component of the project will be the responsibility of the SEdC, the
Provincial Education Commissions (PEdC) and the IAG.



ANNEX 13
- 77 -                      Page 2 of 5
6.          At the time of appraisal, the mission was informed that the SEdC
has: (i) working with the IAG, selected the five Chinese normal universities
which will host the national level seminars, and the 10 pilot project
institutions which will carry out research on the teaching methodologies
developed during the Core Seminars; (ii) utilizing existing institutional
twinning linkages between these Chinese normal universities and foreign
institutions, selected appropriate international co-chairmen for the national
seminars; (iii) developed plans to send the Chinese co-chairmen abroad in
teams or individually to study teaching methods and meet with the
international co-chairmen to plan the seminar; and (iv) utilizing the IAG,
established a process to monitor the implementation of the national level
seminars and oversee the regional dissemination courses as well as the 10
dissemination pilot projects.
National Core Teaching Methodology Seminars
7.          At appraisal, the mission, the SEdC and the IAG agreed to the
following institutional hosting responsibilities for the national level core
seminars, the dates of the seminars and the appointment of the two co-
chairmen:
Teaching Methodolozy Subject          Locatio                        Date
(proposed)
A) Teaching of English              East China Normal University  4/95
Shanghai
Chinese Co-chairman -          Professor Huang Yuanshen
International co-chairman -   Professor John Sinclair
(proposed)                   Birmingham University
England
B) Teaching of Mathematics         Central China Normal Univ.    5/95
Wuhan, Hubei Province
Chinese Co-chairman -          Professor Liang Zhaojun
International Co-chairman -   Professor David Singmaster
(proposed)                   Southbank University
London, England
C) Teaching of Biology             Northeast Normal University   7/94
Changchun, Jilin Province
Chinese Co-chairman            Professor He Mengyuan
International Co-chairman      Professor B. Harvey
(proposed)                   Saskatoon University
Canada
D) Teaching of Physics             Nanjing Normal University       9-10/94
Nanjing, Jiangsu Province
Chinese Co-chairman -          Professor Liu Bingsheng
International Co-chairman -   Professor Dr. D.K. Nachtigall
(proposed)                   Dortmund University
Germany



-78 -ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 5
E) Teaching of Chemistry           Beijing Normal University        5/94
Beijing
Chinese Co-chairman -          Professor Wu Guoqing
International Co-chairman -  Professor W.T. Lippincott
(proposed)                  University of Arizona
United States of America
8.          Upon completion of the 5 national seminars, participants will
return to their own province as lecturers in provincial-level dissemination
seminars. They will be responsible for producing materials for these
provincial-level seminars as well as distribute materials produced at the
national level seminars. Provinces with a small number of project-supported
normal colleges may join with adjoining provinces to give these seminars.
Evaluation of Seminars
9.          Evaluation will be an integral part of seminar implementation.
Each seminar will be evaluated using questionnaires administered to
participants. The organizers will be encouraged to gather participant's
reactions and will test their learning gains. Furthermore, papers presented
at the seminars will be published for wider consideration and comment.
Pilot Institutions
10.         During appraisal, the mission, the SEdC and the IAG agreed on the
criteria to choose the pilot institutions for the regional dissemination of
and further research on the teaching methodologies. These criteria are:
a) The pilot institution must be a project-supported normal college or
university possessing of appropriate faculty size and scale of teacher
training. The population in the area served by the institution must be
over 6 million, the enrollment over 1,500, and the size of the school
(number of teaching classrooms, library holdings, etc.) must have
reached the criteria set by the SEdC for normal colleges.
b) The pilot institution must have sound academic and administrative
leadership, and must has already set definite academic development and
teacher training reform targets.
c) The pilot institution must have a senior teaching staff of sufficient
academic rank and research experience to carry out the task of regional
dissemination and study of the new theories presented in the national
seminars.
d) The pilot institutions must have already carried out research and
obtain results in ares of academic reform.



- 79 -                       ANNFX 11
Page 4 of 5
11.         The pilot institution portion of this activity will be supervised
and managed by the PEdCs. The pilot institution activity will use the
following procedures:
a) Within three months of the core seminars and under the guidance of
the Chinese co-chairman of the specific core seminar for which they are
responsible, each pilot institution will submit an action plan to the
appropriate PEdC and the SEdC for approval outlining their plans for
regional dissemination courses and research on the new teaching theories
presented at the core seminars, along with a budget for carrying out
these activities. The budget for the pilot institution's activities
will be supported from the project's Innovation Fund and will total not
more than US$ 10,000. Upon approval of the action plan by the PEdC and
the SEdC, 70% of the proposed and approved budget will be allocated to
the pilot institution.
b) During the implementation of the pilot project, SEdC/FILO, the
Teacher Training Department of the SEdC, the PEdCs and the IAG may
organize supervision missions to visit the pilot institutions in order
to provide guidance to the pilot institution's project-supported
programs.
c) Each year the pilot institution will submit an annual progress report
to the local PEdC, SEdC/FILO and the IAG.
d) Upon completion of the pilot institution's activities (which must be
completed by the end of the overall project) the institution will submit
a final evaluation report. The SEdC will organize visits to assess the
results of the pilot institution's activities, and if the results of
such the assessment are positive, the remaining 30% of the budget will
be allocated to the pilot institution.
12.         During appraisal, the SEdC and IAG submitted and the mission
approved the following names of institutions which will be pilot institutions:
1) Baicheng Normal College, Jilin Province  - Chemistry
2) Linyi Normal College, Shandong Province  - Mathematics
3) Liuan Normal College, Anhui Province        - English
4) Yancheng Normal College, Jiangsu Prov.   - Physics
5) Nanyang Normal College, Henan Province   - Chemistry
6) Langfang Normal College, Hebei Province  - Biology
7) Jiujiang Normal College, Jiangxi Prov.   - Mathematics
8) Foshan University, Guangdong Province    - English
9) Yulin Normal College, Guangxi Province   - Physics
10) Chongqing Normal College, Sichuan Prov.  - Biology



ANNEX 13
- 80 -                        Page 5 of 5
Chinese Co-chairmen International Study Tours
13.         In the first half of 1993, the Chinese Co-chairmen of the five
core seminars and members of the IAG will make three study tours to North
America, the United Kingdom and Germany to meet with the International Co-
chairmen of the seminars. During these visits the study tours will examine
the teaching programs and teaching methodologies in the host countries. The
primary task of the study tours will be to allow the pairs of seminar co-
chairmen to determine the teaching methodologies to be introduced, the study
and reference materials to be prepared, and the procedures to be used at each
of the core seminars.
14.         Upon return from abroad, the Chinese co-chairman will complete
organization of the core seminars and produce detailed teaching materials for
the seminars. It is expected that 600 copies of the teaching plans for each
subject will be prepared and printed before the seminars are given.



- 81 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 5
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
OPERATING CRITERIA FOR THE INNOVATION PROGRAM UNDER THE PROJECT
PURPOSE
1.          To provide support for independently initiated activities which
will operationalize potentially fruitful ideas which lie within the Chinese
teacher training system, especially through promoting reform in teacher
training institutions and improving the quality of middle school teaching and
teacher training.
CRITERIA
2.          Eligible Institutions.  Proposals for innovation activities may be
put forward by: institutions which receive support under the present project;
institutions within the 15 provinces of the present project which were
previously assisted by Bank Group education projects; agencies associated with
education bureaus of the 15 proJect provinces; and departments of and agencies
associated with the State Education Commission (SEdC).
3.          Eligible Topic Areas.  Curriculum reform or experimentation; new
or revised teaching methodologies; laboratory instruction techniques;
development of teachers' professional skills; investigation of lower middle
school student learning characteristics; experimental courses, including those
with increased vocational content; education regarding environment, population
or natural resources; educational psychology and pedagogy; enhancement of
student ability to solve real world problems; improved utilization of
laboratories and libraries, including extended and individual laboratory
usage; laboratory scheduling and management of equipment use; use of computer
information systems for equipment management; applications of audio-visual
methods; utilization of computers in teaching; education of minorities,
disabled, or exceptional students; teaching for rural areas; expanded
opportunities, inducements and methods in the education of women; reforms in
content and delivery of examinations; reforms in administration and management
of teacher training institutions; applications of statistical information to
teacher system management; combinations of in-service, with pre-service
teacher training; other reforms in teacher training operation; and other
activities, on an individual basis, consistent with the objectives of the
Project and acceptable to the Association.



- 82 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 5
4.          Eligible Expenditures.  Equipment and consultant services and
training (including research studies, experimental programs and pilot
activities). See below for types of disbursement which qualify and percent of
reimbursement.
PROCESS
5.          The Innovation Assessment Group.  Operation of the innovation
program will be the responsibility of an Innovation Assessment Group (IAG) set
up by the SEdC. The IAG will: solicit proposals; evaluate proposals and
select activities for funding; supervise progress of those activities;
evaluate their results; report on the status of the innovation program; and
made recommendations for dissemination of selected results.
6.          Selection of Activities.  Activities to be recommend for funding
will be selected by review of applications, by field visits of IAG members to
selected sites, and by subsequent discussion and secret vote. A majority vote
will be deemed sufficient for selection. The following guidelines will be
used in selection of activities for funding:
The activity must be in conformity with the principles of teacher
training and teacher training reform of the SEdC.
The activity must promise to provide information potentially
beneficial to the development of teacher training.
The activity must: take steps toward positive solution of existing
problems; be applicable in a context beyond that of the proposing
institution alone; and have characteristics which are lacking in
similar proposals.
The proposing institution must be able to provide the necessary
manpower, facilities and counterpart resources to carry out the
activity successfully.
The part of the cost of the activity to be paid by the Project
should not exceed US$50 thousand equivalent.
Unnecessary overlaps between activities should be avoided, and a
reasonable balance among provinces and regions should be sought.
By December 31 of each year of the Project (but not so late that the proposed
activity cannot be completed by the Closing Date), the IAG will submit to the
Association for its review and approval a list of new proposed activities.
The Association will provide comments by March 1 of the following year. If no
reply is received by that time, the list will be considered approved. The
proposed activities for the first year of the project will be submitted to the
Association no later than the date of project effectiveness, and the
Association will provide comments within two months of their receipt.



- 83 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 5
7.          The following information will be provided to the Association for
each proposed activity: its title; the name and location of the institution
proposing it; a brief summary description; the eligible topic area or areas
which it covers; a justification in terms of its innovative nature; its likely
duration; expected results and proposed measures of outcome; and a summary of
costs to be covered by the project and by the host institution.
8.          SuRervision and Reporting.  During the implementation of the
program, the IAG will monitor the progress of each activity by means of
periodic reports sent by the participating institutions and agencies, and by
field inspections by IAG members as deemed necessary or appropriate. The
annual reports will be summarized into a report of the program as a whole and
sent annually to the Association along with the progress report for the
Project as a whole. Members of supervision missions sent by Association to
review progress of the Project will be permitted to visit activity sites at
their discretion.
9.          At the conclusion of each activity, an appraisal of results will
be made by the IAG and a summary sent to the Association. This will include
confirmation of timely implementation, that the budget was spent according to
the proposal, and the degree to which objectives were achieved according to
expected and actual outcomes of the activity. The IAG will report especially
good results to the SEdC with recommendations for dissemination, further
action and possible reward. The Association will review and comment on these
through the overall reporting process established for the project.
DISBURSEMENT
10.         Disbursement of project funds for the innovation program will be
at 85% against purchases of equipment and at 100% against expenditures for
consultant services and training. Expenditures for purchase of equipment will
be documented according to the Bank Group's guidelines for withdrawal of
proceeds. Reimbursement for expenditures for consultant services and training
(those not subject to prior review by the Association) will be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure to be certified by FILO, and may include
(but need not be limited to) such things as fees, travel, subsistence,
meetings, printing and expendable materials.
11.         The institution carrying out each activity will provide
counterpart support through the provision of personnel, facilities, existing
equipment, institutional support, and 15 percent of the cost of equipment
purchase, inter alia.
OTHER IAG ACTIVITIES
12.         The IAG will also provide technical advice for provision of
equipment and consultant services and training for the pilot institutions
selected in connection with the teaching methodology core seminars under



- 84 -
ANNEX   14
Page 4 of 5
the Project. In so doing, procedures and criteria similar to those above will
be used, except that the institutions themselves will have been pre-selected.
COMPOSITION OF THE IAG
13.         The initial composition of the IAG is as follows.
Leader
Tu Guohua
Professor of Physics and Vice-President
Nanjing Normal University
Deputv Leader
Wang Yongchao
Professor of Biology
Beijing Normal University
Members
Yang Jiexin
Associate Professor of Physics
East China Normal University
Lan Baochun
Associate Professor of English Linguistics and President
Huanggang Teachers College, Hubei Province
Lin Qiqing
Deputy Division Chief
Division of Teachers Colleges and Normal Universities, SEdC
Wang Xiaoqing
Deputy Director, Project Division
Foreign Investment and Loan Office, SEdC
Secretary
Sun Sangen
Director of the Laboratory Management Office, Nanjing Normal University
(plus another to be decided)



- 85 -
ANNEX 14
Page 5 of 5
Changes in membership or addition of members will be made with the agreement
of the Association. Efforts will be made to find qualified members with
experience in teacher training for the lower middle school level
14.         A secretariat for the IAG will be set up at Nanjing Normal
University. Sufficient resources from the Project, the University and the
SEdC will be provided so that the secretariat and the IAG itself will be able
to carry out the activities prescribed for them.



- 86 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
PERFORMANCE MEASURES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
These measures will be used to assess the achievement of project
objectives in terms of the delivery of project inputs and the resultant
changes in teacher training practice. In some cases, quantitative targets are
used (e.g., number of new volumes supplied to libraries), and in others rate
of improvement will be measured (e.g., increase in number of hours taught, or
in percent of qualified staff).  The general and the institutional measures
will be applied at three levels: individual teacher training institutions,
participating provinces, and the project as a whole.  The management goals
will be applied to participating provinces and the project as a whole.  The
quality enhancement goals relate only to the project.
Target for
Measure                     6/30/98
GENERAL GOALS                   Percent of qualified        increase of 10%
(Institution,                  teaching staff in lower    over present level
Province and                   middle schools
Project level)
Rate of female graduation  increase the number
from middle school          of female graduates
teacher training            so as to reduce by
institutions                20% any present
deficit below 50%.
Average weekly hours
taught by full time lower  increase of 10%
middle school teacher       over present level
training faculty
Percent of lower middle
school teacher trainees    60% of trainees in
studying to qualify in      each project
more than one subject       province



- 87 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 3
INSTITUTIONAL ELEMENT
(Institution, Province and
Project Level)
Instructional Equipment        Percent of prescribed                100%
experiments performed
Percent of equipment                100%
operational with full
supply of consumables and
adequate budget for
spares
Percent of science course            25%
time devoted to
laboratory work
Hours per week for which   75% over present
Laboratories are open       number
Library Materials              Additional volumes           3000 volumes per
supplied to libraries       college
Library book collection    200 per student
Libraries open 70 hours    100% of libraries
weekly or more
Libraries with open-shelf  80%  of libraries
policy
Staff Upgrading                Percent of planned           100% of programmed
training program carried   trainees
out
100% of programmed
training duration
MANAGEMENT ELEMENT
(Province and Project Level)
National Management            Percent of planned           100% of programmed
Development                 training program carried   trainees
out
100% of programmed
training duration



- 88 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 3
Provincial Management           Percent of planned          100% of programmed
Development                 technical assistance         trainees
program carried out
100% of programmed
training duration
Teacher Information             National level equipment   100% operational
System
Provincial level            100% operational
equipment
Provincial/National data   100% operational
links
Percent of planned          100% of programmed
technical assistance        trainees
program carried out
100% of programmed
training duration
Teacher information being According to agreed
supplied on regular basis  timetable
QUALITY ENHANCEMENT ELEMENT
(Project Level)
Core Seminars                  National Seminars            5 seminars
200 participants
Regional Seminars           All seminars
completed according
to plans
1250 participants
Pilot Programs                 Two programs in each of    10 programs carried
five subjects               out
Innovation Programs            About 150 innovative and   All activities
developmental activities   approved and funded
90% of activities
positively
evaluated



- 89 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Scheme
Rationgle
1.          Efficient monitoring and evaluation is acknowledged as being a
critical element in project design. It may be used to assess the
effectiveness of the implementation of project components, to gauge short term
project impact, and to investigate the long term effects of targeted
investments in educational innovations. Good project evaluation is
transparent and measures the achievement of both technical and policy
objectives. This project will incorporate routine project monitoring and
evaluation coupled with the trial and modification of a more permanent
evaluation system. All administrative levels will be informed of the project
targets and will be fully involved in monitoring and evaluation activities.
Institutional Arraneements and Procedures
2.          Institutional Involvement.  Within the State Education Commission
(SEdC) the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) will take the lead in
project monitoring and evaluation. FILO will collaborate with the Management
Information Center (MIC) and Teacher Services Department (TSD) and other
appropriate SEdC departments to devise means of collecting and processing
relevant data and to develop an impartial evaluation system. Each
collaborating department will assume overall responsibility for collecting,
collating and evaluating appropriate data. In doing this they will rely on
appropriate SEdC divisions, the Provincial Education Departments (PED) and the
Teacher Training Institutions (TTI) for initial raw and aggregated data.
3.          Procedures.  The first most crucial step in the process is the
establishment of an evaluation group comprising representatives from each of
the relevant departments together with local experts. The group will be
responsible for overseeing and improving evaluation within the current project
and for establishing a permanent evaluation system for subsequent programs and
projects.
4.          When the evaluation group has delineated data requirements and
procedures for their collection, collation and analysis, a seminar will be
held for provincial representatives of the credit leadership group who will be
informed of what data are required, when they should be available, how they
should be presented, the channels for their submission, how they will be used,
and, importantly, what feedback might be expected. During the seminars
reporting requirements will be outlined. These will include annual progress



- 90 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 3
reports by the TTIs that will be submitted to SEdC through the PEDs. Since
effective monitoring begins early in project implementation, the provincial
seminar should be held shortly after project effectiveness, probably during
the second half of 1993. This will allow provinces sufficient time to inform
he TTIs who will appraise staff of their responsibilities.
5.          Data will be collected, aggregated and reviewed throughout the
project. Some may be submitted in the annual reports. Others will be
acquired during on site visits by PED and SEdC staff.
6.          A key point in project implementation is the mid-term project
review. At this stage two important questions will be asked. The first,
concerns the status of implementation of the current project; while the second
looks at the effectiveness and possible broader application of the monitoring
and evaluation model being applied. At this decisive point a workshop
involving international personnel will be held to review project status and to
critique the monitoring and evaluation system including proposals on ways to
make it more effective and efficient. Seminar participants will include
Chinese and international education evaluation experts, and the World Bank.
It could usefully be arranged by the EDI. An appropriate time for this
seminar is mid-1996.
7.          The final step in project monitoring and evaluation will take
place upon project completion when a full report will be compiled of project
inputs, processes and impacts. At this stage it will be possible to describe
the model monitoring and evaluation system to be used in assessing the
systemic effects of educational investments and innovations.
Data Reauirements and Processine
8.          Reguirements.  The monitoring of this project is complex since it
involves institutions at three levels (four, including the lower middle
schools (IMS)), three major components with nine sub-components, and a variety
of material and non-material inputs. Consequently, the questions to be asked
may be classified under several headings. These include measures to evaluate
implementation at each institutional level, each project component and, what
might be termed, 'bridging' activities under the project such as procurement
and technical assistance/training.
9.          An acceptable educational evaluation model that is gaining
increasing credibility is one that extends the traditional input-output
production model to include processes and outcomes thus: Input-Process-
Output-Outcome. In practice, in the context of a project, this model requires
modification because human resource development is a long term process and
project duration is usually too short to produce results among the ultimate



- 91 -
ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
target group. For example, in this project, it is probable that there will be
observable changes in the way normal college lecturers present their materials
but it is only barely possible that this will reflect in better teaching in
the lower middle schools within the life of the project. It will certainly
not result in better achievement among LMS students within five years.
However the possibility of improvements at the school level must not be denied
as they are among the intended long term project objectives. So the evalua-
tion scheme to be used sets out to assess the impact of the project upon the
TTIs and develops a model for assessing the ongoing long term impact of the
project in the LMSs.
10.         Two overlapping evaluation models will be used.  The first,
project evaluation, will involve monitoring project inputs, the efficiency
with which these are used, and how they impact upon delivery within the
education system (or operational quality). The latter model for more long
term application would add considerations of outputs (improvements in
achievement) and outcomes (applications) in TTIs and LMSs.
11.         Several 'levels' of data will be gathered.  They include basic
numeric data on project inputs such as funding, equipment, books, and
training; evidence of how these inputs are being utilized in terms of
quantitative efficiency showing, for example, that more students have access
to science equipment and books, library hours are extended to accommodate more
students, and teaching staff are better distributed; and evidence of how these
inputs are impacting on the system qualitatively so that, for example, normal
college lecturers are applying a wider range of teaching methodologies and
management practices are responding to institutional and systemic change. The
last category could include evidence of the impact on newly trained teachers
entering the LMSs with data being gathered from observations of newly
appointed and long-serving teachers.
12.         Procedures.  During the seminar described above data requirements
listed by the SEdC evaluation group will be made available to the provinces
for both them and the TTIs. In the interests of uniformity data sheets are
recommended. From the time of project effectiveness records will be kept at
each administrative level. Data from the institutions will be sent from the
college credit office through the provincial credit leadership group (where it
will be aggregated if necessary) onto the SEdC. Here, further aggregation and
analysis will take place. Development of this work could be considered as an
area of funding by the IAG.
Targets
13.         Targets for each project sub-components are given in Annex 15.
More may be added after the deliberations of the evaluation group.



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT BASE COSTS
(US $ Thousands)
1993       1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       Total
INSTITUTIONAL ELEMENT
Facilities Upgrading                   15596.7    23395.0    23395.0    15596.7        0.0         0.0    77983.4
Instructional Equipment                 5654.0    52425.6    19975.4    18498.4      2293.3     1224.4   100071.1
Library Development                       63.3     1247.0     1994.3     1949.5      1949.5      779.5     7983.1
Staff Upgrading                          229.1      483.6     1057.6     1389.3       815.4      229.1     4204.1
Sub-Total                              21543.1    77551.2    46422.3    37433.9      5058.2     2233.0   190241.7
MANAGEMENT ELEMENT
National Mgmt Development                 73.6      120.6      103.1        0.0         0.0        0.0      297.3
Provincial Mgmt Development               26.1      177.1       97.8       47.2       56.2         0.0      404.4
Teacher Information System
Central                                 190.2     1007.5      569.5        3.7        2.5        0.0      1773.4
Province&County                        591.4      3133.7     1771.5       11.6        7.6        0.0     5515.8
Sub-Total                                881.3     4438.9     2541.9       62.5        66.3        0.0     7990.9
QUALITY ENHANCEMENT ELEMENT
Core Seminars                             51.8       64.9      183.0       118.2        0.0        0.0      417.9
Pilot Programs                             0.0        0.0       51.9        0.0         0.0       22.3       74.2
Innovation Prograrr,                     832.5     1665.0     1665.0      560.0       560.0      280.0     5562.5
Sub-Total                                884.3     1729.9     1899.9      678.2       560.0      302.3     6054.6
o '-
TOTALS                                 23308.7    83720.0    50864.1    38174.6      5684.5     2535.3   204287.2                    1



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US $ Thousands)
1993       1994      1995        1996      1997       1998       Total
INSTITUTIONAL ELEMENT
Facilities Upgrading                   18217.2    28965.4    30703.3    21697.0       0.0        0.0   99583.0
Instructional Equipment                 6604.0    63037.9    25423.4    24755.0    3313.9      1873.3   125007.5
Llbrary Development                       72.1     1485.3    2496.8      2568.6    2697.3      1133.7    10453.7
Staff Upgrading                          267.6      598.8     1326.9     1810.4     1141.8      358.1    5503.5
Sub-Total                              25160.9    94087.4   59950.4    50831.0    7152.9       3365.1   240547.7
MANAGEMENT ELEMENT
National Mgmt Development                 81.5      137.7      122.6        0.0       0.0        0.0      341.8
Provincial Mgmt Development               29.4      207.5      119.3       58.9      72.8         0.0     487.9
Teacher Information System
Central                                217.2     1201.6      712.9        5.0        3.4        0.0    2140.1
Province & County                      675.5     3737.5     2217.4       15.6       10.6        0.0     6656.6
Sub-Total                               1003.6     5284.2    3172.2        79.5      86.8         0.0    9626.3
QUALITY ENHANCEMENT ELEMENT
Core Seminars                             57.4       77.2      236.3      164.4        0.0        0.0      535.3
Pilot Programs                             0.0        0.0       66.5        0.0        0.0       33.6      100.1
Innovation Program                       833.1     1666.7    1667.2       562.8      563.4      282.0    5575.1
Sub-Total                                890.5     1743.9     1970.1      727.1      563.4      315.6     6210.5
TOTALS                                 27054.9   101115.6   65092.7    51637.6    7803.1       3680.6   256384.6



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT ELEMENT BY SUMMARY ACCOUNT
(RMB Yuan Thousands)
Project Element                          Physical              Price
Quality                  Contingencies       Contingencies
Institutional  Management Enhancemnt   Total         %     Amount        %      Amount
SUMMARY ACCOUNT
Civil Works/Facilities       422670.0      3816.0       0.0   426486.0         8.0    34118.9     19.7    83862.6
Equipment/Materials          500140.0    33865.0        0.0   534005.0         8.0    42720.4     17.1    91214.6                     1
Specialist Services             104.0      593.0      342.0      1039.0        8.0       83.1      8.5       87.8                     p
In-country Training           22485.0      1720.0     1642.0    25847.0        8.0     2067.8     24.9     6438.3                     1
Overseas Training              9296.0      3317.0      281.0    12894.0        8.0     1031.5     13.4     1722.6
Innovation Program
Equipment                        0.0        0.0    19171.0    19171.0        0.1       16.1      0.3        49.7
Cons. Serv. & Trg.               0.0        0.0    11379.0    11379.0        0.3       32.2       1.0      111.8
Insurance/Freight             76415.0        0.0        0.0    76415.0         8.0     6113.2     16.6    12698.0
Total BASE COSTS             1031110.0    43311.0    32815.0  1107236.0        7.8    86183.2     17.7   196185.4
Physical Contingencies        82488.8      3464.9      229.5    86183.2
Price Contingencies           190169.8     5399.6      616.6   196186.0        7.4    14528.5
Total PROJECT COSTS          1303768.6    52175.5    33661.1  1389605.2        7.2   100711.7     14.1   196185.4
of Which:
Taxes                             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange             244762.1    25140.7      9543.0   280124.9        7.2    20106.6                                        o 
0



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(RMB Yuan Thousands)
1993        1994         1995        1996        1997         1998      Sub-total
SUMMARY ACCOUNT
Civil Works/Facilities     99628.8    159827.2    167413.6    117597.8          0.0          0.0    544467.4
EqulpmentMaterials          3800.3    339490.2    141162.1    140666.9       29047.3     13773.2    667940.0
Specialist Services          107.6       616.8        354.9        33.3         97.4         0.0      1210.0
In-country Training         1896.2      8804.2      10196.4      7311.6       4068.1      2076.6     34353.1
Overseas Training            987.7      1891.8       4221.4      5901.1      2646.1          0.0     15648.1
Innovation Program
Equipment                 2845.5      5691.0       5868.7       1897.0      1897.0      1037.5      19236.7
Cons. Serv. &Trg.         1669.9       3342.2      3538.2       1153.2      1156.4       672.9      11532.8
Insurance/Freight          35701.7     28382.9      20057.2      5315.2       3380.4      2388.8      95226.2
TOTALS                    146637.7    548046.3    352812.5    279876.1       42292.7     19949.0   1389614.3
X-.
oq
> 
o 
_,



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS BY YEAR INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US $ Thousands)
1993        1994        1995        1996        1997        1998       Sub-total
SUMMARY ACOUNT
Civil WorkslFacilities    18381.7     29488.4     30888.1     21697.0         0.0          0.0    100455.2
Equipment/Materials         701.2     62636.6     26044.7     25953.3      5359.3       2541.2    123236.3
Specialist Services          19.9       113.8        65.5         6.1         18.0         0.0       223.3
In-countryTraining          349.8      1624.4      1881.2      1349.0        750.6       383.1      6338.1
Innovation Program          182.2       349.0       778.9      1088.8       488.2          0.0      2887.1
Equipment                 525.0       1050.0      1082.8       350.0       350.0       191.4      3549.2
Cons. Serv. &Trg.         308.1        614.8       651.0       212.8       213.4       124.1      2124.2
Insurance/Freight          6587.0      5236.7      3700.6       980.7        623.7       440.7     17569.4
TOTALS                    27054.9    101113.7     65092.8     51637.7       7803.2      3680.5    256382.8
Ln
1a



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY OF COSTS BY CURRENCY
RMB Yuan Thousands                      SUS Thousands               % Foreign    % Total
Local      Foreign       Total        Local      Foreign       Total     Exchange   Base Costs
SUMMARY ACCOUNT
Civil Works/Facilities    426486.0          0.0    426486.0      78687.5          0.0     78687.5          0.0        38.5
Equipment/Materials       318605.1    215399.8    534004.9       58783.2     39741.7      98524.9         40.3        48.2
Specialist Services            0.0       1039.0      1039.0          0.0        191.7       191.7        100.0         0.1
In-country Training        25847.0          0.0     25847.0       4768.8          0.0      4768.8          0.0         2.3                 1
Iverseas/Training              0.0      12894.0     12894.0          0.0       2379.0      2379.0        100.0          1.2               10
Innovation Prograrr.                                    0.0                                   0.0
Equipment                 11502.6      7668.4      19171.0      2122.3       1414.8       3537.1        40.0          1.7
Cons. Serv. &Trg.         10241.1      1137.9      11379.0       1889.5       209.9       2099.4        10.0          1.0
Insurance/Freight          76415.0          0.0     76415.0      14098.7          0.0     14098.7          0.0          6.9
Total BASE COSTS          869096.8    238139.1   1107235.9    160350.0        43937.1    204287.1         21.5        100.0
Physical Contingencies     67826.9      18356.3     86183.2      12514.2       3386.8     15901.0         21.3          7.8
Price Contingencies       173234.3      22951.1    196185.4      31962.0       4234.5     36196.5         11.7         17.7
Total PROJECTS COSTS    1110158.0    279446.5   1389604.5    204826.2         51558.4    256384.6         20.1        125.5
"H
3Q2
0'
o H
m _-.



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
Government of                                Local
IDA             China             Total       Foreign    (Excl.  Duties
Amount   %       Amount    %      Amount   %        Exch.    Taxes)  & Tax
DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
Civil Works/Facilities                   0.0    0.0  100455.3  100.0  100455.3  39.2          0.0 100455.3    0.0
Equip/Materials-Purchase             86011.4   75.0   28670.5   25.0  114681.9  44.7    45265.6  69416.3    0.0
Equip/Materials-Spares                2566.3   30.0    5988.0   70.0    8554.3   3.3       1552.5  7001.8    0.0
Specialist Services                    223.2  100.0        0.0    0.0      223.2   0.1      223.2      0.0    0.0
Overseas Training                     2887.1  100.0        0.0    0.0    2887.1   1.1      2887.1      0.0    0.0
In-country Training                   3169.1   50.0    3169.1   50.0    6338.2   2.5          0.0  6338.2    0.0
Insurance/Freight                        0.0    0.0   17569.4  100.0   17569.4   6.9          0.0  17569.4    0.0
Innovation Equipment                  3016.8   85.0      532.4   15.0    3549.2   1.4      1418.3  2130.9    0.0
Consultant Svcs & Trng                2126.1  100.0        0.0    0.0    2126.0   0.8       213.2  1914.4    0.0
Total Disbursement                  100000.0   39.0  156384.7   61.0  256384.6 100.0    51559.9 204826.3    0.0
o



- 99 -
ANNEX 18
CHIN
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
Allocation of Proiect Funds Among Provinces
Contributed by             Onlent from
Province                          SEdC                   Credit Funds
Hebei                      Y  25.00 million           US$  7.10 million
Nei Mongol                     13.75                       3.00
Liaoning                       15.00                       4.99
Jilin                          12.50                       4.37
Heilongjiang                   15.00                       4.58
Jiangsu                        10.50                       6.27
Anhui                          24.75                       4.83
Fujian                        20.00                        5.62
Jiangxi                        22.00                       6.16
Shandong                      21.00                       10.40
Henan                          30.00                       9.92
Guangdong                     10.50                        5.62
Guangxi                       24.75                        6.42
Hainan                         5.00                        2.03
Sichuan                       37.50                       11.43
TOTALS             Y 287.25 million          US$ 92.74 million
(US$53.00 million)
SEdC Financed Credit Items:
National Management Training         US$  0.34 million
Teacher Information Systems               4.87
Innovation Programs                       2.05
GRAND TOTAL                 US$100.00 million



CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
(Percent of Total Expenditure)
1993        1994         1995         1996         1997        1998
INSTnTUIONAL ELEMENT
20%         50%          80%         100%
Facilities Upgrading                  I            I            I           I
6%          58%          78%         97%          99%           100%
Instructional Equipment               I            I            I           I            I             I
1%          16%         41%          66%          90%           100%
Library Development                   I            I            I           I            I             I                         H
11%         52%          76%          96%         99%           100%                       0
Staff Upgrading                       I                         I           I                        _
MANAGEMENT ELEMENT
25%         65%          100%
National Mgmt. Dev.                   I            I            I
6%          50%          74%         86%          100%
Provincial Mgmt. Dev.                 I            I            I           I
10%         67%          100%
Teacher Inform. System
QUALITY ENHANCEMENT
ELEMENT
11%         27%          71%         100%
70%         70%          70%           100%
Pilot Programs                                                  I           I            I             I
15%         45%          75%          85%         95%           100%
Innovation Programs                   1            I            I           I            I             I



- 101 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1 of 4
CHIN
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
Design of Proiect Im2lementation
Basic Implementation Structure
1.          This project deals with a large number of provinces (15) and
educational institutions (124), while covering a limited technical area of
education system development (teacher training for lower middle schools). It
is important to maintain autonomy of action as close as possible to the
operational sites of the project, in order to deal effectively with the
variety of conditions there. At the same time, it is essential to maintain
centralized coordination of certain aspects of project implementation, such as
overall quality and the technical details of implementation like procurement,
accounting, training, and provision of technical assistance, inter alia. Only
thus can such a diverse set of activities be carried out effectively in such a
large number of places. It is therefore important to define the locus of
responsibilities for the various aspects of project execution, with particular
attention to the effective decentralization of those responsibilities.
2.          The qualitative and managerial decisions relating to the project
will take place at institutional, provincial or central levels according to
the needs of each part of the project. Coordination, administration,
technical implementation and liaison with the Association will be the
responsibility of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of the State
Education Commission (SEdC). The preparation, planning, operation and
budgeting for each component of the project will, however, to the extent
possible, be disaggregated to a level appropriate for both response to local
needs and to effective operational control of the project as a whole.
Operational Agencies of the Project
3.          Teacher Training Institutions.  A credit office will be set up in
each of the normal colleges and similar institutions assisted by the project.
It will deal with the implementation of civil works, the selection of
instructional equipment and library stock and equipment, the choice of staff
to receive training and the implementation of any other activities which are
to be handled at the institutional level. This office will work with the
normal managerial channels of the institution to assure the best fit of
allotted project resources with its needs. It will also select proposed
projects for support by the innovation fund for submission to the review and
approval process which will be set up for that purpose.



- 102 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 4
4.          Provincial Education Bureaus.  In each province covered by the
project, a credit leadership group will be set up, chaired by a deputy
director and staffed by representatives of the concerned departments. This
group will be responsible for coordinating the participating teacher training
institution budgets for civil works, instructional equipment, library inputs,
staff upgrading and other training activities. Allocations will be made
according to the needs of the provinces and to the ability of each institution
to benefit from the activities offered by the project. It will advise and
assist the project institutions in selecting equipment and materials for
procurement and staff for training in both formal courses and short term
seminars. The group will also make provisions for development of managerial
capabilities and teacher information systems as provided for under the
project. It will arrange for provincial participation in the sub-national
seminars, particularly those following from the teaching methodology seminar
program. Finally, the group will review and make recommendations regarding
proposals which have been submitted by the participating institutions within
the province for support by the innovation fund. The detailed administrative
work related to project implementation at the provincial level and lower will
be the responsibility of the provincial education loan offices.
5.          Innovation Assessment GrouR (IAG).  The IAG will be responsible
for review and selection of innovation proposals to be funded. It will choose
those for support under the national and the provincial portions of the fund,
according to the scope of their perceived likely benefit. It will also
monitor execution of the chosen innovation activities, assess their success
and make recommendations for dissemination of key results. The IAG will, in
addition, provide advice of a technical expert variety to the SEdC regarding
other aspects of the project, such as assistance in evaluation, in preparing
the teaching methodology seminars and designing the pilot projects following
from them.
6.          State Education Commission.  A credit leadership team will be set
up and headed by a vice-minister, to coordinate project operations at the
central level. Leadership of technical aspects of the project will be
devolved to the appropriate departments of the SEdC. The Teacher Services
Department will, for example, deal with issues related to staff development
and teaching methodology. The Management Information Center will be
responsible to assist in training and teacher information system (TIS)
activities at the provincial level, as well as for managing TIS at the SEdC.
These two units will also be concerned with developing a system for project
monitoring and for evaluation of efforts to improve the effectiveness of
teacher training. Other SEdC departments will also be involved, as
appropriate, to deal with the technical issues which arise in areas such as
instructional equipment selection, library development and staff training.
7.          Foreign Investment and Loan Office.  This office within SEdC will
be responsible for all administrative details of project implementation,
including project evaluation, procurement of equipment and of library stock,



- 103 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3 of 4
contracting of specialist services, coordination of training and all overseas
contacts and arrangements. It will select a qualified trading company to
undertake international and local competitive bidding for the project. It
will also be responsible to prepare for disbursements under the project,
except those devolved to the provincial or institutional levels in the
interest of efficiency. It will inform MOF of procurement decisions, and MOF
will then be responsible for project accounts, for arranging necessary audits
and for formal communications with the Bank Group.
SuDervision of Proiect Progress
8.          FILO will have overall responsibility for project supervision from
the government side, except for the financial matters to be handled by HOF,
providing for coordination among the several operational institutions and
agencies of the project and preparation of semi-annual progress reports based
on information received from them. Staff from the Association will carry out
supervision activities by means of review at headquarters of progress reports,
audit reports, procurement actions and other matters which arise, and through
supervision missions carried out approximately twice yearly. The initial such
supervision mission would be charged with acquainting provincial officials
with their duties in carrying out the project. Implementation at the
institutional level would be similarly coordinated by those provincial
officials. The supervision missions will observe, review and discuss project
provinces and make visits as appropriate to a sampling of provincial and
institutional sites. The following table summarizes the general plan for
project supervision in the field.



- 104 -
ANNEX 20
Page 4 of 4
IDA SUPERVISION MISSION INPUT TO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate                                 Expected Skill        Staff-Weeks
Date               Activity               Reguirements            Input
4/93        Supervision Mission         General Education           5
(Project launch)           Teacher Training
Information Systems
2/94        Supervision Mission         Teacher Training            3
(Equipment selection        Information Systems
and procurement
Information system
development
Core seminars
Innovation programs)
9/94        Supervision Mission         General Education          3
(Staff upgrading           Teacher Training
programs
Technical assistance
Core seminars
Innovation programs)
4/95        Supervision Mission         General Education          5
(Introduction of new       Teacher Training
equipment                 Information Systems
Library innovations
Information system
development
Innovation programs)
11/95        Supervision Mission         General Education          3
Information Systems
Teacher Training
6/96        Mid-Term Review             General Education          5
Information Systems
1/97        Supervision Mission         General Education          3
Teacher Training
8/97        Supervision Mission         General Education          3
Teacher Training
3/98        Supervision Mission         General Education          3
Teacher Training
Total            33
Annual Average            S staff-
weeks in
the field



- 105 -                      ANNEX 21
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Source
Semester       (in US$ thousands)              IDA Cumulative
Ending       IDA    Govt. of China    Total    Amount   %  Profile *
12193     1,657.4  25,397.6    27,055.0    1,657.4   1.7     3
6/94     24,711.2  25,846.5    50,557.7    26,368.6  26.4    14
12/94    24,711.2  25,846.5    50,557.7    51,079.8  51.1    38
6195     11,176.0  21,370.4    32,546.4    62,255.8  62.3    50
12195    11,176.0  21,370.4    32,546.4    73,431.8  73.4    66
6196     10,303.8  15,515.1    25,818.8    83,735.6  83.7    70
12196    10,303.8  15,515.1    25,818.8    94,039.4  94.0    78
6/97      2,105.4   1,796.1    3,901.6    96,144.8  96.1    86
12/97     2,105.4   1,796.1     3,901.6    98,250.2  98.3    86
6/98       874.9     965.4     1,840.3    99,125.1  99.1    94
12/98       887.9     965.4     1,840.3   100,000.0  100.0    94
TOTALS   99,125.1  155,419.2   254,544.3
Standard disbursement profile for China projects



- 106 -
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.    CHINA - A Survey of Teaching Services: Supply, Performance, Training and
Careers (December 27, 1991)
2.    CHINA - A Survey of Teaching Services: Results of Fieldwork Regarding
Lower Middle School Teachers and Teacher Training (December 31, 1991)
3.    Proposed Effective Teaching Services Project: Pre-Appraisal Mission,
June 1992 -- Aide-Memoire
4.    Proposed Effective Teaching Services Project: Appraisal Mission,
August/September 1992 -- Aide-Memoire
5.    Project Development Handbook (April 22, 1992)
6.    Proposed Effective Teaching Services Project:  Listing of Tasks to be
Accomplished (August 13, 1992)
8.    Survey of the Proposed Project Provinces (SEdC, June 1992)
9.    Survey of the Normal Institutions in the 15 Project Provinces (SEdC,
June 1992)
10.   Basic Statistics of the Normal Institutions in the 15 Project Provinces
(SEdC, August 1992)
11.   Construction Plan for the Teaching Building and the Laboratory Building
of the Proposed Project Institutions (SEdC, June 1992)
12.   The Funding Plan for the Normal Institutions (1992-1997) (SEdC, August
1992)
13.   List of the Required Teaching Instruments for Teachers College (SEdC,
April 1992)
14.   TOR for TIS Unit in SEdC (SEdC, September 1992)
15.   Training Program of TIS (SEdC, September 1992)
16.   A Time Table of TIS (SEdC, October 1992)
17.   List of Innovation Programs (SEdC, August 1992)
18.   Implementation Guidelines of the Effective Teachers Services Project
(Draft) (SEdC, September 1992)
19.   Report for Mr. Smith's Proposal for TIS H&S Requirements
(SEdC, September 1992)



- 107 -
CHINA
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
KEY TO MAP
LOWER MIDDLE SCHOOL TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS INCLUDED IN PROJECT
HEBEI                           NE! MONGOL                     LIAONING                      JILIN                         REILONGJIANG
01  HRbat N.I.                  01  Neimemggu N.C.             01  Shenyang N.I.             01  JIlin N.I.                01  QLqiha'.r N.I.
02  Langfang N.C.               02  Baotou N.C.                02  Dalian N.U.               02  Tonghua N.I.              02  Mudanjiang N.I.
03  Zh-rgJlakou N.C.            03  Zhao'uda N.C.              03  Anshan N.C.               03  Changchun                 03  Ha'.rbin N.C.
04  B.oding N.C.                04  Wumeng N.C.                04  Fushun N.C.               04  Changchun U.             04  Suihua N.C.
05  Ch.ngde N.C.                05  HaLla'ar N.C.              05  Yingko N.C.               05  Balchang N.C.            05  Jianmusl N.C.
06  ShLjiazhuang N.C.                                          06  Jinzhou N.C.                                           06  H.UxexJiang N.C.
07  Eandan N.C.
08  Hen3shui N.C.
09  Xingtat N.C.
10  Cangzhou N.C.
JIANGSU                         ANHUI                          FUJIAN                        JIANGXI                       SHANDONG
01  Xuzhou N.I.                 01  Fuyang N.I.                01  Zhangzhou N.I.            01  Shar.rao N.C.            01  Qufu N.I.
02  Yangzhou N.I.               02  AnqLng N.I.                02  Fuzhou N.C.               02  Fuzhou N.C.              02  Yantal N.I.
03  Changshu N.C.               03  Liu'an N.C.                03  Jimws  N.C.               03  JI'an N.,C.              03  Llaocheng N.I.
04  Nantong N.C.                04  Hluzhou N.C.               04  Quanzhou N.C.             04  Yichun N.C.              04  JLnan N.C.
05  Yancheng N.C.               05  Wuhu N.C.                  05  Sanming N.C.              05  Jiujlang N.C.            05  Qingdao N.C.
06  Hualyin N.C.                06  Tuzhou N.C.                06  Nanping N.C.              06  Gannan N.I.              06  Zibo N.C.
07  Zhenjiang N.C.              07  Suzhou N.C.                07  Ningds N.C.               07  Pingxiang N.C.           07  Zaozhuang N.C.
08  Nanjing N.U.                08  Chaohu N.C.                08  Longyan N.C.              08  Jingdezhen N.C.          08  Changvei N.C.
09  Huainan N.C.                                                                          09  Jining N.C.
10  Taj'an N.C.
11  Binzhou N.C.
12  D-zhou N.C.
13  Linyl N.C.
14  Heze N.C.
HENAN                           GUANGDONG                      GUANGXI                       HAINAN                       SICHUAN
01  Henan U.                    01  Hulyang N.C.               01  Guangxi N.I.              01  Hainan N.I.              01  Chongqing N.I.
02  XLnyang N.C.                02  Hanshan N.C.               02  Lluzhou N.C.              02  Tongshi N.C.             02  Sichuan N.I.
03  Nanyang N.C.                03  Fushan U.                  03  Hechl N.C.                                             03  Leshan N.C.
04  Luoyang N.C.                04  Jiaying U.                 04  Youjiang N.C.                                          04  Fullng N.C.
05  Xuchxang N.C.               05  Shaoguan U.                05  Yulln N.C.                                             05  Mianyang N.C.
06  Anyang N.C.                 06  XijLang U.                 06  Qinzhou N.C.                                           06  Xichang N.C.
07  Zhoukou N.C.                07  Zhanjiang N.I.             07  Guangxi                                                07  Neijiang N.C.
08  Shangqul N.C.                                              08  Gulln N.C.                                            08  Chongqlng N.C.
09  PInding3han N.C.                                           09  Wuzhou N.C.                                            09  Zigong N.C.
10  Zhumadlan N.C.                                                                                                        10  Wan.xian N.C.
11  Xinxlang N.C.                                                                                                         11  Daxian N.C.
12  KaLfeng N.C.                                                                                                          12  Aba N.C.
13  Kangding N.C.
14  Chengdu N.C.
15  Yibin N.C.
Notes:       N.C  denotes normal Colleges
N.1 denotes normal Institutes
N.U denotes normal Universities



IBRD 24221
RUSSIAN
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                                            FEDERATION
K A ZAK H S TA N
k /--/sv~~~,    JbVj    \
HEILONGJIANG o
. 03
/  -00--    02
MONGOLIA                                                      * J01
KYRGYZSTAN                                U0                                                                                                                      JILIN
UZB  KISTAN                    |O                                                                                                                                          * 02                                    JAi
; ra > AX esu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAPAN2
IAJG  D.PR.
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                    02
iN~~~~~~~~~0
To., mop  Kos bo,o' ppedOREA
o0  -eOrd  os,  J,of!
on ,eooeos mod  W Ion tke                                                  _|
Gp  Tho o   hr BonL Gioup                                                                                        -                                                                                ;0a 
poo of The Wbg= f. . o, 7-r
eodoo,ro,e0 or oco-epOooze of   _   $';2<* Es hn 
-00 b---Oot                                                                                                                                                                     E-st Ch-c
-3v 17 s, * T2 t L = <> @9HANGHAI
N>_        S                           \)^\        *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~        ~      ~ 13 SICHLtAN  08  !V |       
ch-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
CHINA                               _                            06
EFFECTIVE TEACHING SERVICES PROJECT
C5 LOWER MIDDLE, SCHOOL TEACHER TRAiNING                                                                                                                                   PACIFiC
INSTITUTIONS SEE KEY ON SEPARATE SHEET)                                                                                                                                  OCEAN
W   PROJECT PROVINCES                                                                             02OCEAN
@      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                         00
*      NATIONAL CAPITAL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                    Ur
___________________-f___LAO_PEOPLE'S_____*e@isk                                                                Chl-c              PHILIPPINES         '
000 D        L            300                             THAIsnoND2   DEMN REP                             NAN   S-
DECEMBER 1992



