                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 34756

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IDA-40170)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45 MILLION

                                       TO

                             SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                              (REPUBLIC OF SERBIA)

                                       FOR

                      SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT




                                 December 29, 2005




Macroeconomics 2
Europe and Central Asia

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 13, 2005)

                             Currency Unit = CSD (Serbian Dinar)
                                     CSD1 = US$ 0.01378
                                     US$ 1 = CSD72.95

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 -    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EPS           Electric Company of Serbia
EU            European Union
FIAS          Foreign Investment Advisory Services
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICA           Investment Climate Assessment
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LDP           Letter of Development Policy
MOP           Material Support to Families Program
MPALSG        Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self-Government
PAR           Public Administration Reforms
PFSAC         Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PPFDPC        Programmatic Private and Financial Sector Development Policy Credit
PPSDPL        Programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan
RIA           Regulatory Impact Assessment
SAA           Stabilization and Association Agreement
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
SaM           Serbia and Montenegro
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SOSAC         Social Sector Adjustment Credit
TSS           Transitional Support Strategy
USAID         United States Aid for International Development
ZTP           Serbia Railways

                            Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                         Country Director      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                          Sector Manager       Bernard Funck
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Abebe Adugna

                               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
                  Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Republic of Serbia)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Government Evaluation of the Credit                                     27

Project ID: P078457                                                  Project Name: Structural Adjustment Credit 2 (SAC 2)
                                                                     (Serbia)
Team Leader: Abebe Adugna                                            TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Structural Adjustment Credit 2 (SAC 2) (Serbia)          L/C/TF Number: IDA-40170
   Country/Department: SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (25%); Other social services (25%); General industry and
                            trade sector (25%); Power (25%)
                  Theme: Legal institutions for a market economy (P); Regulation and competition policy (P); Social
                            safety nets (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S); Corporate governance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/25/2003                                     Effective: 12/22/2004                12/22/2004
     Appraisal: 09/14/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/16/2004                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Serbia and Montenegro/REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:                Cheryl W. Gray                                 Cheryl W. Gray
Team Leader at ICR:             Abebe Adugna                                   Ilker Domac
ICR Primary Author:             Abebe Adugna


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context. The Republic of Serbia embarked on an ambitious economic reform program in January 2001
with the objective of ensuring a rapid transition to an open market economy, normalizing relations with
international financial markets, and integrating its economy with the European Union. The reform
objectives and measures were outlined in the Government's medium-term Economic Recovery and
Transition Program. The government's economic program rested on three pillars: (i) more prudent
macroeconomic policies; (ii) market-oriented structural reforms to improve the efficiency and flexibility of
the economy; and (iii) the mobilization of significant financial and technical support from donors.

Stabilization policies have focused on aligning fiscal deficits with available sources of non-inflationary
financing and reducing quasi-fiscal deficits. Progress in implementing structural reforms has been
significant, although uneven across sectors. Notable advances have been made in the following areas: price
and foreign exchange liberalization (including early current account convertibility); opening the country to
trade and investment; management of public finances; tax policy; privatization; bank resolution; energy; the
labor market; pensions and social assistance. In most areas, however, reforms are still incomplete, and in
several (e.g., public administration, health care, and the restructuring of major utilities) the reform process
remains at an early stage.

The reform program has been supported by the IMF, World Bank, the European Union, and other bilateral
development partners. The IMF has, to date, supported the reform program through three successive
arrangements--most recently by a three year long Extended Arrangement of SDR 650 million spanning the
period through end-December 2005.

The implementation of the economic program was successful in restoring macroeconomic stability and
growth. Serbia's retail price inflation declined from 113.5 percent in 2000 to 14.8 percent in 2002 and
further to 7.8 percent in 2003. Following the sharp contraction in 1999, SaM's GDP (the Republic of
Serbia accounts for about 93 percent of SaM's GDP) grew by 5.5 percent and 4 percent in 2001 and 2002,
respectively. By 2003, however, the initially buoyant recovery slowed down due mainly to the political
uncertainty created by the assassination of the Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic in March 2003, and
the decision to hold early Serbian parliamentary elections in December 2003. Real GDP growth thus
slowed to 3 percent in 2003.

Objectives of SAC 2: Serbia Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) was designed to support the
Government of the Republic of Serbia to deepen the structural reforms needed to place the economy on a
more solid basis for enhanced fiscal discipline, enduring growth, and a move toward European structures.
This was to be accomplished through the implementation of structural reforms in four policy areas: (i)
reforms of the business enabling environment; (ii) improving performance in the energy sector; (iii)
strengthening social protection; and, (iv) improving public administration. These objectives reflected
essential priorities for Government of the Republic of Serbia at that time, as identified both by the
government's PRSP and by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. The Credit was a one-tranche
operation, with SDR 30.1 million (US$45 million equivalent) disbursed upon effectiveness in December
2004.

Links with previous operations. The World Bank had supported the Serbian Government's reform agenda
since 2001, as outlined in the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) produced on June 26, 2001 and
updated in August 2002 and February 2004. A multi-sectoral Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC1,
approved in January 2002) was designed to enhance fiscal sustainability through reforms of public



                                                     - 2 -

expenditure management, the energy sector, social protection, labor markets, and health care. A Social
Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC, approved in April 2003) aimed at supporting reforms in pensions,
health and labor, while enhancing the focus on social assistance and poverty monitoring. Two Private and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (PFSAC1 and PFSAC2, approved in May 2002 and June 2003)
aimed at promoting growth through: (i) strengthening the financial system via the liquidation of troubled
banks and an improved policy and regulatory environment; (ii) privatizing and restructuring socially-owned
enterprises; and (iii) improving the investment and business climate. Therefore, the reform areas supported
Serbia SAC 2, with the exception of public administration reform, constituted a continuation and deepening
of the reform efforts that had been initiated by the World Bank's previous adjustment operations in Serbia.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Serbia SAC 2 had five components: (a) maintaining macroeconomic stability; (b) improving the business
climate; (c) improving the performance of the energy sector and enhancing institutional development; (d)
strengthening social protection; and (e) improving public administration. Each of these components is
briefly described below.

A. Macroeconomic Performance. As with all structural adjustment operations, SAC 2 required
satisfactory macroeconomic performance, although there were no tranche conditions linked specifically to
macroeconomic outcomes.

B. Investment Climate. Serbia's weak business environment limited the development of a strong private
sector capable of generating growth and employment. Serbia SAC 2 sought to support the government to
improve business entry and corporate governance, contract enforcement, and regulatory capacity, mainly
through supporting legislative changes.

C. Energy Sector. The energy sector reforms under SAC 2 aimed to improve financial and operational
sustainability of the power company, Elektroprivreda Srbije (EPS), on a stand alone (off budget) basis;
support power sector commercialization; and ensure that risks associated with potential adverse impacts of
increased electricity tariffs on the poor were mitigated.

D. Social Protection. Serbia's PRSP and Serbia Poverty Assessment (2004) highlighted that the key
priorities in social protection were enhancing effectiveness of the safety net through expanded coverage,
greater adequacy of benefits and improved targeting; mitigating the adverse impact of changes in the level
and structure of electricity tariffs on the poor; and, strengthening coordination between social protection
programs and energy-related subsidies. SAC 2 focused on supporting the Government to: (i) improve the
effectiveness of Serbia's safety net; and (ii) put in place a program to mitigate the adverse impact of
increases in electricity tariffs on the poor.

E. Public Administration. Serbia had inherited a legacy of politicized and fragmented public
administration, ill-suited to performing its expected role in a modern market economy and democratic
system. After the change of regime in 2000, the new Government of Serbia expressed strong interest in the
reform and modernization of its public administration. The Government established the Civil Service
Council (CSC) to design the reform process, and later the Ministry of Public Administration and Local
Self-Government (MPALSG), with the responsibility to unify and coordinate all public sector reform
activities. Reform goals supported under SAC 2 aimed at setting the stage for the implementation of a
medium-term Public Administration Reform (PAR) agenda, including (i) the formulation and adoption of a



                                                      - 3 -

PAR strategy and action plan; (ii) creation of effective PAR management structures; and (iii) design of pay
reform for the civil service.

Linkages of Component Design to Objectives. Design of the Credit's components was well linked to the
general objectives described above. By improving the investment climate and introducing energy sector
reforms that promote cost recovery price and commercialization, the Credit sought to directly support
higher growth and fiscal discipline, although no assessment was done of the total fiscal impact of the
operation. By supporting the implementation of the new social welfare law and the electricity price subsidy
scheme for the poor, the Credit sought to mitigate the social impact of reforms on the poor and vulnerable.
By introducing the long-haul public administration reforms, the Credit sought to support Serbia's efforts in
moving its public administration system towards European structures and standards.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on: (i) the Credit's consistency with Government priorities,
and Bank priorities; (ii) the Credit's solid analytical basis that informed the policy areas to be supported;
and, (iii) the close coordination with other donors, including the IMF, and the common goals shared by the
donor community in Serbia. Each of these is briefly discussed below.

Consistency with Government priorities. SAC 2 aimed to support the Government's structural and
institutional reform agenda in four policy areas, as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy and Policy
Action Matrix. The tranche conditions listed in the Development Credit Agreement were cross-referenced
with specific paragraphs in the LDP, reflecting the close mutuality of purpose between the Credit and the
Government's program. SAC 2 was also consistent with the objectives of Serbia's PRSP, developed in
2004, which aimed to create dynamic and sustainable growth, with emphasis on job creation, as well as an
efficient and transparent public administration system. The structural reforms were also fully consistent
with, and indeed supportive of, the overarching aspiration of Serbia to join the European Union, and the
Stabilization and Association Process (SAP) framework that guided Serbia's harmonization efforts with
European structures.

Consistency with Bank priorities. Serbia SAC 2 was an integral part of the first joint Bank-IFC FY05-07
CAS for Serbia and Montenegro, which was presented to the Board in parallel with SAC 2. Consistent with
the overall economic objectives set in the Stabilization and Association Process (SAP), which contains the
framework for Serbia's eventual joining of the EU, and Serbia's PRSP, the CAS rested on three pillars (i)
creating a smaller, more sustainable, more efficient public sector; (ii) creating a larger, more dynamic,
private sector; and (iii) reducing poverty, and improving social protection and access to social services,
particularly for poor and vulnerable populations. SAC 2 supported the continuation of structural reforms
that had been initiated under the World Bank's previous adjustment operations in Serbia and represented a
bridge between the Bank's earlier support and the programmatic loans envisaged in the new CAS. The
reform measures in SAC 2 were designed to support the policy goals of the new CAS by enhancing fiscal
discipline, encouraging a strong private sector response as well as employment creation, and setting the
stage for deeper reforms aimed at improving public administration. Measures in SAC 2 were also essential
to strengthen social protection and to mitigate the adverse impact of the energy sector reform measures on
the poor.

Analytical basis for program design. The focus on the four key policy areas supported by SAC 2 was
underpinned by the Bank's economic sector work and intensive dialogue with relevant counterparts. The



                                                      - 4 -

World Bank's analytical background work included: Recent Progress on Structural Reforms (2003), which
took stock of the status of structural reforms; Serbia Investment Climate Assessment (2004), which guided
the business environment reform component; Serbian Energy Sector: Status, Key Issues and an Agenda for
Action (2003), which supported the reform design in the energy sector; Serbia and Montenegro Poverty
Assessment (2003), which, among other areas, highlighted the priorities within the social protection and
impact mitigation; and      Serbia and Montenegro Public Administration Development: Creating the
Conditions for Effective Economic and Social Reform Policy Note(2004), which constituted the basis for
the design of the public administration reforms.

Donor coordination. Both the IMF and the Bank along with the donor community shared the goals of
achieving a credible fiscal adjustment and macroeconomic stability, and placing the Serbian economy on a
sustainable growth path. During the preparation of this operation, Fund and Bank staff as well as the key
donors such as EU and USAID cooperated closely to ensure consistency between not only the stabilization
and structural adjustment measures but also between the reforms that were supported by different donors.
SAC 2 complemented the IMF macroeconomic program in Serbia, and supported Serbia's objective of
bringing its economic structure in line with the EU standards.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome is rated satisfactory as the Credit achieved its objectives with respect to all components (see
below).

4.2 Outputs by components:
The Credit's outcome for each component is discussed below.

A. Macroeconomic performance. This component is rated satisfactory.                        The satisfactory
macroeconomic rating reflects a balance between some overperformance relative to projections in the
Project Document in growth and fiscal policy, and some underperformance in reducing inflation and the
current account deficit (Table 1). The macroeconomic scenario supported by SAC 2 has been consistent
with that of the IMF, and the IMF program has been on track.
Table 1. Republic of Serbia: Key Macroeconomic Outcomes: Projected vs. Actual,
2002-2005
                                                           2004                  2005
                                                       ProjectedActual    Projected    Actual/ Current
                                                                                       Projection
Real GDP Growth                                                6       8.6         4.6               4.6
Inflation                                                   12.6      13.4         9.6             12.3
General Government Deficit (before grants)                    -2      -0.3         0.7               1.2
Current Account Balance                                    -10.7     -13.1       -10.2              -9.5
External Indebtedness                                       57.8        62        56.4             57.1
Investment/ GDP                                             16.5      17.6        17.8             18.4


The actual 8.6 percent growth of real GDP in 2004 exceeded the 6 percent growth rate projected under the
Credit. Similarly, the general government deficit for 2004 (0.3 percent of GDP) was significantly lower
than projected under the Credit (2 percent of GDP), mainly because fiscal policy was tightened beyond
program targets to contain the external imbalance and inflation. The tight fiscal policy stance is expected
to continue in 2005, leading to a surplus of about 1.2 percent of GDP, again higher than the surplus of 0.7
percent of GDP projected under the Credit. On the other hand, inflation at about 13.4 percent in 2004, was



                                                     - 5 -

slightly above the originally projected target of 12.6 percent under the Credit, owing mainly to one-off
factors including the introduction of the VAT, increases in tariffs for municipal services, and rising oil
prices. Also, the current account deficit was higher than programmed under the Credit in 2004 due mainly
to higher than projected trade deficit. The current inflation projection for 2005 is also higher than the
original projection--12.3 percent vs. 9.6 percent--on account of demand pressures and rising oil prices.
Some exogenous factors such as high oil prices contributed to the unexpectedly high inflation and current
account deficit. The IMF's extended arrangement with SaM has continued to focus on reducing Serbia's
relatively high inflation and current account deficit.

Serbia SAC 2 contributed to improved macroeconomic environment, including the high growth rates in
2004 and 2005. Although the Credit did not assess with any specificity the fiscal impact of the energy
sector reforms, the introduction of energy sector tariff adjustment in line with cost recovery contributed to
reducing the overall fiscal burden imposed by that sector. The business environment reforms had a positive
impact on investment as Serbia's investment as percentage of GDP in 2004 increased significantly, from
16.1 percent in 2003 to 17.6 percent in 2004. As a result of these reforms, there has also been a significant
increase in the number of limited liability companies registered per annum--from about 6000 new
companies in 2004 to about 10,000 new companies in 2005.

B. Business Climate. This component is rated highly satisfactory. This rating reflects the fact that
medium term outcome indicators have evolved much better than had been anticipated under the Credit (as
discussed below). The reforms under SAC 2 focused on introducing new laws essential for improving the
business climate. More specifically, with the support of SAC 2, the Republic of Serbia:

l Enacted a new Company Law. The new Law introduced several signficant improvements, including
    consistency with the requirements of EU Company Law Directives. The minimum capital requirement
    was reduced from USD5,000 per company to 500 euros per company, with no requirement for capital
    maintenance. Two types of joint stock companies, namely closed and open, were introduced. A new
    closed company would be free of capital maintenance requirements and would be free to impose
    restrictions on the transfer of its shares, but could not offer its shares publicly and may not have more
    than 100 shareholders unless it adopts and agrees to follow the rules and requirements for an open
    company. The law expanded and clarified a director's legal duty of care and duty of loyalty to the
    company, introduced the concept of "personal interest", simplified the structure of the board, made the
    establishment of a supervisory board optional and provided for directors to be elected only by the
    shareholders and only for one-year terms--all with a view to encourage good corporate governance.
    Finally, the law provided detailed provisions for merger, division, and conversion of a company from
    one form to another, imposed new disclosure and other requirements on companies and persons who
    control a company, and provided new rules for the liquidation of a company outside bankruptcy.

l Enacted a new Law on Execution Procedures. With the support of SAC 2 the Government prepared
    a new Law on Execution Procedures. After consultation with the public and other stakeholders, the new
    Law was adopted by the Government in October 2004 and was subsequently enacted in November
    2004. The most important improvements of the new Law included: new types of injunctions, especially
    in commercial matters, that will strengthen the position of the creditor; a special regulation and
    procedure for enforcement in commercial matters; significant changes in legal remedies (introduction of
    appeals, precise definition of reasons for both legal remedies and short time limits provided for
    decisions on legal remedies); the possibility to postpone enforcement but for only a narrow set of
    reasons; and, a clearer regulation of the position and responsibilities of courts.

l Increased its regulatory impact assessment capacity. Amendments to the Rules of Operation of the



                                                      - 6 -

    Government requiring the responsible ministry to prepare a justification statement for a new law, a
    decree and an order in line with the OECD Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) were made in October
    2004. Since then RIA is mandatory for all new legislation and decrees, and a Regulatory Reform
    Council and a small technical secretariat have been established to facilitate and guide the process.
    Since October 2004, an RIA has been carried out for more than 60 draft laws. In some cases, the RIA
    has led to amendment of laws to reduce the regulatory burden on the private sector. However, the still
    limited capacity and resources of the technical secretariat need to be further increased to enhance
    sustainability.

Progress toward medium-term outcomes. The medium-term outcomes of the Credit were stated as: (i)
increasing in the number of limited liability companies registered per annum; (ii) a more efficient
enforcement of judicial decisions and commercial contracts as measured by the Enforcing Contract
Indicators; and, (iii) a steady increase in the use of RIA of legislation. The adoption of the Company Law
and Law on Execution Procedures, together with the Business Registration Law in May 2004 and the
Bankruptcy Law in July 2004 under PFSAC 2, laid the foundations for an improved entry and exit regime
in Serbia. According to the new Doing Business Study of the World Bank (2006), Serbia was rated among
the top reformers during 2004-05. Serbia significantly reduced enterprise entry time from 51 days in 2004
to 15 days in 2005; the number of procedures was reduced from 11 in 2004 to 10 in 2005; and the average
duration of court cases was reduced from 1028 days in 2004 to about 600 days in 2005. As a result of
these reforms, there has been a significant increase in the number of limited liability companies registered
per annum--from about 6000 new companies in 2004 to about 10,000 new companies in 2005. Serbia now
has a more efficient enforcement of judicial decisions and commercial contracts as measured by the
Enforcing Contract Indicator. As mentioned above, there has also been a steady increase in the use of RIA,
as over 60 laws have become subjected to RIA since October 2004.

C. Energy Sector. This component is rated satisfactory. This rating reflects the fact that all conditions
were met and there is good progress towards achieving the medium term outcomes. With the support of
SAC 2, the Republic of Serbia:

l Enacted the Energy Law and set up an independent Energy Regulator. The new Energy Law is
    consistent with best practice for the region and entered into force in July 2004. The Law detailed the
    institutional aspects of the regulatory framework together with broad regulatory rules (e.g. tariffs will
    be set to cover costs). The Law serves as the basis for further energy sector reforms, including
    regulatory development, tariff reform, Elektroprivreda Srbije (EPS) restructuring, and energy market
    liberalization. Following the enactment of this law, an independent energy regulator was established in
    June 2005. Staffing of the regulatory agency, although not yet complete, is underway, and the agency is
    expected to be operational by January 2006. In addition, the Government adopted an Energy Strategy
    that explained the vision behind the Energy Law, and laid a foundation for further energy sector
    reforms and investment.

l Helped improve payment discipline and commercialization of the energy sector. Specific steps
    taken under the Credit included: (i) offering more than four of EPS' large electricity debtors for sale,
    with two of them or viable parts thereof sold;           (ii) increasing the tariff level to maintain an
    approximately constant real tariff in July 2004 relative to 2003; (iii) reforming the existing tariff
    structure by reducing the first block tariff to 350kWh; (iv) maintaining a net hiring freeze at EPS; and
    (v) adopting a Government decision to separate ownership of power generation and transmission
    businesses. A separate transmission business (EMS) became legally operational in July 2005.




                                                       - 7 -

Progress toward medium-term outcomes. SAC 2 recognized that the reforms supported under the Credit
were only near-term steps in a longer-term program with the ultimate objective of attaining a financially
sustainable and operationally efficient power industry. The medium term outcomes of the operation were
thus cautiously stated as: (i) full staffing of the Energy Regulator and the adoption of business plan; (ii)
maintaining ongoing financial viability of EPS defined as positive operating cash flow; and (iii) maintaining
residential collections ratio in the range of 92-95 percent. As of the time of this assessment, the
Government has made good progress in staffing the regulatory agency, with about 10 of the 35 total
positions filled. The regulatory agency is on course to become fully operational in the first half of 2006,
and among its immediate priorities is the develoment of a tariff schedule for cost recovery. In terms of
improving financial viability, the tariff adjustment for 2004 was fully in line with what was agreed under
the Credit, while in 2005 there has been an average increase in the electricity tariff of 9.5 percent.
Collection rate for residential consumers has been in line with benchmarks, rising from 91-92 percent in
2004, to 93 percent in 2005. Improving collections from industrial consumers, however, remains a big
challenge. Despite some progress under the Credit in tackling the biggest industrial debtors of EPS through
offering them for sale, a continued effort is needed. In 2005, the Ministry of Mines and Energy has
submitted an additional list of the 15 largest non-payers of electricity to the privatization agency for action,
but progress with privatization has been slow.       The challenge in the future is to have a regulatory
framework that allows for cost recovery, while providing incentives for EPS (or its successor companies) to
perform efficiently in comparison with other participants in the evolving regional energy market. A recently
approved, follow-on Bank operation, the first programmatic Private and Financial Development Policy
Credit (PPFDPL1), directly builds on the SAC 2 reforms by introducing measures to minimize supply
disruptions and improve the operating cash flows of EPS.

D. Social Protection. This component is rated marginally satisfactory. This rating reflects the fact that
while all conditions under the Credit were met, the medium term impact has been weaker than expected (see
below). With the support of SAC 2, the Republic of Serbia:

l Ensured full implementation of the Social Welfare Law, which expanded coverage of Serbia's
    main social safety net program--the Material Support to Families Program(MOP). The enactment of
    the Social Welfare Law had been a key condition of another previous Bank operation, the Social Sector
    Adjustment Credit (SOSAC). The implementation of the Law, however, hinged on the availability of
    adequate funds in the 2004 and 2005 state budgets. The Credit helped ensure an increase in the
    budgetary allocation for the implementation of the MOP of about 20 percent (from about 0.1 percent of
    GDP prior to the Law), allowing a modest expansion in coverage. With the implementation of the Law,
    the number of recipients of social welfare (cash) assistance was expected to increase from about
    43,000 families to about 56,000 families.

l Helped mitigate the adverse welfare impact of increased electricity tariffs on the poor. With the
    support of SAC 2, the Government introduced a new mitigation scheme to support the poor and
    vulnerable population, whereby recipients of child benefit, minimum pension and MOP were entitled to
    a discount of 30% of the monthly bill on consumption up to 300 kWh. Also, the Government
    established an inter-agency group (involving the Ministry of Mines and Energy, EPS, and the Ministry
    of Labor, Employment and Social Welfare) to oversee the implementation of the mitigation scheme.
    The program was introduced in the summer of 2004. When it was introduced, it was expected that
    about 80,000 (and at least 50,000) new poor households would become beneficiaries of the scheme,
    thereby increasing the total number of families from a previous estimated 20,000 to about 100,000.

Progress toward medium-term outcomes. This was weaker than expected. The stated medium-term
outcomes for the Credit were that: (i) 13,000 new beneficiaries would be covered by MOP; and (ii) a


                                                     - 8 -

minimum of 50,000 new beneficiaries would be protected by the energy sector social safety nets. While the
reforms supported by the Credit did bring 8,000 additional poor and vulnerable families into the MOP
program, this was less than the expected increase of 13,000 families. This was not due to the inadequacy of
budget, but rather to the limited public information campaign about the MOP program, and the weak
outreach efforts of the local social welfare centers. As concerns the electricity subsidy program, only
17,000 additional families benefited from the assistance (versus the originally planned 50,000 new
households). While the reasons for this shortfall are many, two factors appear especially important. First,
many poor families faced `technical' problems in meeting the eligibility criteria for the scheme, such as not
having their own electricity meter or living in illegally constructed buildings. Second, a key condition for
accessing the subsidy was that the families remained current on their electricity bills--a rather stringent
condition for many poor households to meet. Also, discussions with the authorities during this assessment
suggested that this scheme may not be as well targeted as Serbia's MOP program (discussed above). While
Serbia's MOP program is well targeted and the actions needed to expand its coverage are clear (increase
information campaign and outreach at the local level), a more rigorous evaluation of the electricity subsidy
program is warranted going forward.

E. Public Administration. This component is rated satisfactory. This rating reflects the fact that all
conditions were met and progress towards medium term outcome has been good, with faster than expected
progress in reaching legislative milestones. With the support of SAC 2, the Republic of Serbia:

l Enacted a Public Administration Reform Strategy and Action Plan. The Public Administration
    Reform (PAR) Strategy and the related Action Plan were first endorsed by the PAR council in October
    2004, and subsequently adopted by the Government of Serbia in November 2004. The Strategy is
    anchored in European principles and standards--professionalization, de-politicization, rationalization,
    decentralization and modernization--and lays the foundation for creation of a merit-based and
    de-politicized civil service and for the rationalization of administrative structures in the central state
    administration. The focus of the strategy is on the central state administration and local (self)
    government and other parts of the public sector are not included. The Action plan elaborates concrete
    priority activities and the deadlines for their implementation.

l Introduced a clear horizontal public administration reform management structure. The
    development and implementation of the PAR strategy was assigned to the Ministry of Public
    Administrtaion and Local Self Government (MPALSG), and its capacity was strengthened through an
    accelerated recruitment effort by the new minister and by the integration of the former Agency for
    Public Administration Development in the structure of the Ministry. The drafting work on PAR
    legislation was taken over by the Office for Legislation at the Government, which built up the technical
    capabilities to ensure that draft laws were of appropriate quality. A small group of experts was
    assigned responsibility for drafting the legislative framework. A clear structure was put in place, and
    appropriate resources were allocated to manage the PAR process.

l Reviewed the Serbian civil service wage system to develop reform proposals, which was
    subsequently endorsed by the Public Administration Reform Council, outlining the direction of pay
    reforms. The proposed elements of wage reform included: (i) a pay and grading system; (ii)
    development of a performance appraisal system linked to the salary system; (iii) the systematization
    process; (iv) de-politicization; and (v) integrating staff development with career advancement.

Progress toward medium-term outcomes. It was recognized in SAC2 that the reforms to be supported
represented the first steps in a very long reform program. The medium term outcome indicators specified in



                                                      - 9 -

the Credit were: (i) adoption of basic laws (Law on Government, Law on Civil Service, Law on Public
Agencies, Law on State Administration, and Law on Salaries) that would provide the foundation for
modern and competitive civil service; (ii) a Law on Salaries that sets a minimum compression ratio in civil
service pay of 1:6; and (iii) effective implementation of PAR according to set deadlines.           With the
exception of the Law on Salaries, all the basic laws have been adopted. On salaries, the Government has
introduced interim salary system reforms through the 2005 budget, which have decompressed the wage
system. Salaries of high management positions, subject to Government appointment, such as Deputies,
Assistants and Secretaries of the Ministry have been increased substantially. In this way, the
decompression ratio has been extended from 1:4.9 to 1:8. The next step in the overhaul of the salary system
is the adoption of the Law on Salaries in the civil service, which is in a drafting stage and expected to be
adopted in the second quarter of 2006. Up to now, the deadlines for finalization of various PAR activities
set out by the Action plan have not been fully respected and continued efforts are needed to perform the
envisaged tasks in an efficient and effective manner. Full implementation of all PAR laws, including the
Civil Service Law, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Salaries and the Law on Ombudsman, is
one of the key conditions in the follow-on Bank operation in Serbia currently under preparation, the first
Programmatic Public Sector Development Policy Loan (PPSDPL1).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the Credit is rated as modest. As a one-tranche adjustment
operation, SAC2 was not expected to have significant institutional development impact. Nonetheless, the
Credit did have several notable institutional impacts. These include: the establishment of an energy
regulatory agency, including partial staffing (energy sector); the establishment of a Regulatory Reform
Council and a small technical secretariat to facilitate and guide the process of regulatory impact assessment
for all new legislation and decrees (business environment); and the creation of clear management and
accountability structures to drive the long and difficult reforms in public administration. Since the Credit's
objectives and implementation have increased, to a limited extent, Serbia's ability to effectively use its
human, financial and natural resources, an overall institutional development impact rating of modest is
reasonable.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Major factors outside the control of government, such as changes in world market prices, did not
significantly affect or disrupt the implementation of the program, but did impact on the macroeconomic
outcome of the program. Most importantly, a significant surge in oil prices towards the closing period of
the operation worked to keep inflation and the current account deficit at levels above those projected at the
time of project approval.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Following the Parliamentary elections of December 2003, Serbia formed a fragile but functioning minority
coalition in early March 2004. Serbian legislative elections held in June 2004 further bolstered stability.
There was some concern that the challenges of ruling as a minority coalition could undermine the
Government's cohesiveness and effectiveness in implementation of the reforms supported by SAC 2.



                                                     - 10 -

Contrary to the expectation, however, government commitment to the overall program and effectiveness in
implementation remained very strong throughout. Business environment, energy sector, social welfare and
public administration reforms were all well implemented. As discussed below, good progress has also been
made towards attaining the medium term goals of the operation in each area.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were no implementation delays. However, as discussed above, the monitoring and evaluation of
beneficiary participation in the main social welfare assistance scheme, the Material Support to Families
program (MOP), and the electricity subsidy scheme for poor households could have been improved by the
respective implementing agencies, the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Welfare, the electric
company of Serbia (EPS), and the Ministry of Mines and Energy.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no cost changes or changes in financing, and disbursements were handled promptly without
delay.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely for the following reasons.

First, many of the reforms undertaken with the support of SAC 2 involved changes in the legal framework
and enactment of new laws (new enterprise law, new law on enforcement procedures, new energy law), and
development of strategies (new Energy Strategy, new Public Administration Reform Strategy). These laws
and strategies are unlikely to be reversed. Indeed, they have continued to take root as implementation has
progressed over time.

Second, SAC 2 supported substantial up-front policy actions as a bridge between the first series of
adjustment lending initiated under the Transitional Support Strategy and the programmatic development
lending envisaged under the new CAS. Three of the components of SAC 2 are directly built upon in the
follow-on Bank operations currently under preparation for the Republic of Serbia. The first programmatic
private and financial sector loan, approved by the Bank Board in early December 2005, builds on the
business environment and energy sector reforms pursued under SAC 2 by accelerating the restructuring and
privatization of socially-owned enterprises; improving the financial sector through further privatization of
state banks and strengthening the capacity of the bank and insurance regulatory authority; and engaging an
international financial advisor for the electric company (EPS) to improve its commercialization. Similarly,
the first programmatic public sector reform loan, which is currently under preparation and expected to be
presented to the Bank Board in May 2005, builds directly on the public administration reforms initiated
under SAC 2, and envisages to complete the legislative agenda (e.g. Law on Salaries) and move swiftly to
implementation, including the staff rationalization and establishment of a merit-based civil service agency.
Although there is at the moment no clear follow on operation that builds on the social protection reforms
undertaken with the support of SAC 2, the monitoring of social impacts of reforms is planned to continue
in the context of Bank's regional programmatic poverty assessment work for Serbia.

Third, Serbia and Montenegro aspires to join the European Union, and EU accession remains an important
anchor for reforms. Many of the legislative and structural reforms undertaken with the support of SAC 2
­in particular the business environment reforms, energy sector, and public administration reforms--were
designed to move Serbia increasingly towards European structures and standards, and as such appear
sustainable. Serbia and Montenegro has officially started the negotiations with the European Union on the
Stabilization and Association Agreement (SAA) in October 2005, which is expected to last about one year.


                                                    - 11 -

These negotiations provide an important extra impetus for maintaining the momentum on economic
reforms, including the implementation of several important laws and strategies supported under SAC 2.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
This is rated satisfactory. Credit identification and design was compatible with the CAS, and SAC 2
was considered by the Bank Board together with the new CAS for Serbia and Montenegro, covering
2005-07. SAC 2 built directly on the outcomes of previous adjustment operations and other sectoral
operations. It was consistent with the government's development strategy, in particular the PRSP. The
Bank worked closely with other donors--the IMF, European Agency for Reconstruction, DFID, SIDA,
UNDP--on the credit's design in all the five main areas of reform. Credit appraisal correctly assessed the
government's strong commitment to the reforms, and appropriately focused on helping the government
introduce legislative changes and develop strategies in various areas.

Concept meetings effectively tightened loans focus and policy conditionalities prior to Board submission.
For example, during the concept review there were proposals to include the restructuring of Serbia's state
railways (ZTP) as part of the Credit since the direct budget subsidy to the railways accounted for around 1
percent of GDP. However, the team argued, and the peer reviewers and management concurred, that this
would overload the program and divert the main focus from promoting sustainable economic growth.
Similarly, at the Regional Operating Committee review, the peer reviewers urged the team to keep the
policy conditionalities focused but go beyond process, and to develop measurable indicators. The time
elapsed between appraisal and board presentation was about three months, so the Credit met the five-month
standard for time elapsed between appraisal and board presentation.

There was good team continuity in this operation. The SAC 2 team leadership was continuous throughout
the credit preparation and implementation. The team leader (country economist) left the country unit around
the time of closing of the Credit, and a new country economist has come on board to lead, among other
things, the follow-on programmatic public sector development policy lending (PSDPL1), currently under
preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated satisfactory. As a one-tranche operation which disbursed in December 2004, and
closed in June 2005, SAC 2 did not involve a level of supervision which would normally be associated with
a multi-tranche operation, and where supervision could materially affect progress and reform outcomes.
SAC 2 supported mostly up-front policy actions, but sectoral missions conducted regular reviews of
progress in achieving medium term outcome benchmarks described in the LDP as well as in the Program
Document. The final ICR mission took a comprehensive stock of progress in achieving such benchmarks,
as reported above.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of the satisfactory rating for the quality at entry, lending, and supervision, the overall Bank
performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                   - 12 -

This is rated satisfactory. During program preparation and appraisal (December 2003- October 2004),
the Borrower was fully committed to the reform program and showed a high level of ownership, leadership,
and commitment to the mutually proposed package of economic reforms. During the appraisal mission
(September 23-October 5, 2004), the Government and the Bank team reached a full understanding on all
elements of the program, including the policy action matrix, with the Minister of Finance. The fact that the
reform measures in the SAC 2 program--except for the public administration reform--constituted a
continuation and deepening of the reform efforts that had been started under previous World Bank
adjustment credits somewhat eased the preparation process and ensured continued Government
commitment. This commitment has been maintained. With the exception of social safety nets, all
components of SAC 2--macroeconomic performance, business environment and private sector
development, energy sector, and public administration--have also been continued under the subsequent
Serbia programmatic private and public sector development policy loans.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
This is rated satisfactory. Following the Parliamentary elections of December 28, 2003, Serbia formed a
fragile but functioning minority coalition in early March 2004. There was some concern that the challenges
of ruling as a minority coalition could undermine the Government's cohesiveness and effectiveness in
reform implementation. Contrary to these expectation, however, government commitment to the overall
program and effectiveness in implementation remained very strong. As discussed above, good progress has
also been made towards attaining the medium term goals of the operation. Effective inter-ministerial
coordination--including effective horizontal communication (between institutions) as well as vertical
communication (within a sector)--was one of the critical factors for successful project implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
This is rated as satisfactory. The performance of the implementing agencies was generally good. The
reform implementation was rightly decentralized to the competent agencies. The Ministry of Economy was
responsible for implementing the business environment reforms, while the Ministry of Mines and Energy
was tasked with implementing the energy sector reforms in cooperation with the EPS. The Ministry of
Labor, Employment and Social Welfare was responsible for the implementation of the new Social Welfare
Law and the MOP program, and the Government established an inter-agency group (involving the Ministry
of Mines and Energy, EPS, and the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Welfare) to oversee the
implementation of the electricity subsidy scheme. The development and implementation of the PAR strategy
was assigned to the Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self Government (MPALSG), and the
drafting work on PAR legislation to the Office for Legislation at the Government.

However, follow-through has in some cases been weaker than expected. As discussed above, the
implementation of both the new Law on Social Welfare and the electricity subsidy scheme for the poor
could have been stronger. With a more vigorous public information campaign about the MOP program at
the local social welfare centers and other stronger outreach efforts, the medium term impact of the MOP
program could have been improved. Similarly, by relaxing the rather stringent criterion to access the
subsidy scheme--i.e. that poor households be current on their electricity bill payments--the coverage of the
subsidy scheme could have been expanded to benefit more poor households, with greater medium term
impact.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the satisfactory ratings for preparation, and govenment implementation performance, the overall
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.




                                                     - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

Improve communication with the implementing agencies. A key lesson learnt from this operation is that
clear project rationale, description of the objectives of reform to the relevant management tiers of the
ministries and state institutions in charge of implementation, and communication between the World Bank
teams and the designated focal points in the partner state institutions are all critical for success. While the
overall implementation performance under the Credit has been good, the feedback during the
implementation completion mission highlighted that there is a need for sustained effort to improve
communication with the Borrower, in particular with the implementing agencies. The staff of the Ministry
of Mines and Energy, in their comments about the Credit, said: "The conditions were carefully chosen, and
the timeline was realistic. However, there is a need to improve communication between the Bank and the
Government, especially in engaging the Ministry of Mines and Energy in the policy dialogue from the
start".

Continue to rely on lending instruments that provide maximum flexibility. Within SaM's complex
political economy, past development policy credits, including SAC 2, have proved effective in supporting
the Government to undertake difficult policy reforms, in part because they allowed for significant flexibility
in terms of the time as well as policy areas to be supported. With the support of these credits, Serbia has
developed medium to long-term reform strategies that guide sector reforms, revamped its legislative
frameworks in many areas, and embarked on the long road of institutional development. The road ahead
requires a strong effort to implement the new strategies and laws, as well as long-term institutional change
and development. This suggests that the support to the government should be appropriately paced and
focused, while at the same time ensuring continuity over the medium term.

Continue to rely on a strong analytical basis to design effective operation. The four key policy areas
supported by SAC 2 were underpinned by extensive Bank economic sector work and intensive dialogue
with the Borrower. The Bank's analytical background work included: Recent Progress on Structural
Reforms (2003), which took stock of the status of structural reforms and where Serbia was lagging; Serbia
Investment Climate Assessment (2004), which guided the business environment reform component; Serbian
Energy Sector: Status, Key Issues and an Agenda for Action (2003), which supported the reform design in
the energy sector; Serbia and Montenegro Poverty Assessment (2003), which, among other areas,
highlighted the priorities within the social protection and impact mitigation; and Serbia and Montenegro
Public Administration Development: Creating the Conditions for Effective Economic and Social Reform
Policy Note (2004), which constituted the basis for the design of the public administration reforms. These
studies helped crystallize clearly the areas to be supported under SAC 2 , ensuring at the same time a
strong government buy-in at the preparation stage and a strong commitment during implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
 The Government's own evaluation of the credit is included in Annex 8.

 To: <aadugna@worldbank.org>
 From: "vladimir" <vvukojevic@mfin.sr.gov.yu>
 Date: 12/27/2005 01:50AM
 cc: <tmitrovickocovic@worldbank.org>
 Subject: ICR comments


 Dear Mr. Adugna ,



                                                    - 14 -

 We would like to thank the World Bank for successful cooperation and support to the Government of the
 Republic of Serbia during Structural Adjustment Credit 2 (SAC 2) project, IDA -40170.

 We also would like to thank for the preparation of Implementation Completion Report on a credit in the
 amount of US$45 million to Serbia and Montenegro ( Republic of Serbia ), for a Structural Adjustment
 Credit 2.

 We have reviewed the report that you have submitted to us. We find the report well prepared.

 We have reviewed the findings and comments presented in the Implementation Completion Report and
 we fully agree with them.

 Best regards,

 Vladimir Vukojevic
 Assistant Minister
 Sector for International Financial
 Relations
 Ministry of Finance of Serbia
 tel +381 11 3614 713

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


  Reform                           Output/ Planned           Actual Output                            Medium            Actual Outcome as
  Areas/Objectives                 Measures                                                           term              of December 2005
                                                                                                      Outcome
                                                                                                      Indicators
 1. MACROECONOMIC
 STABILITY
                                 Continue to maintain a     Progress was mixed. IMF program         Continue to        Mixed progress. IMF
                                 sustainable macroeconomicon track. Real GDP growth was 8.6         maintain a         program on track; real GDP
                                 framework                  percent in 2004, much higher than the sustainable          growth positive and close to
                                                            6 percent growth projected; inflation   macroeconomic      the medium-term target of
                                                            was slightly above the originally       framework          5%; fiscal policy tightened
                                                            projected target of 12.6 percent (13.4                     and sustainable. But
                                                            percent); general government deficit                       inflation still in double digit
                                                            (0.3 percent) was significantly lower                      and needs to be reduced;
                                                            than the projected 2 percent of GDP;                       and current account deficit
                                                            current account deficit was higher                         too high and still not
                                                            than programmed; and indebtedness                          consistent with external
                                                            to GDP in 2004 was slightly higher                         sustainability.
                                                            than projected.
 2. IMPROVE THE
BUSINESS CLIMATE
Enable easier entry and improve Undertake a wide public     Completed. A new Company Law            Increase in the    Good progress. There
corporate governance             consultation process about was prepared and enacted. A wide        number of limited has been a significant
                                 the New Enterprise Law     public consultation was carried out the liability companies increase in the number of
                                 including relevant         Enterprise Law before its enactment. registered per         limited liability companies
                                 stakeholders                                                       annum               registered per
                                                                                                                        annum--from about 6000
                                 Enact the new Enterprise                                                               new companies in 2004 to
                                 Law                                                                                    about 10, 000 new
                                                                                                                        companies in 2005.
Improve contract enforcement     Undertake a wide public    Completed. After consultation with      More efficient     Good progress.
                                 consultation process about the public and other stakeholders, a    enforcement of     According to the new Doing
                                 the new Law on Execution new Law on Execution Procedures           judicial decisions Business Study of the
                                 Procedures including       was adopted by the Government in        and commercial     World Bank (2006), Serbia
                                 relevant stakeholders      October 2004 and subsequently           contracts, as      was rated among the top
                                                            enacted by the Parliament of Serbia in measured by the     reformers during 2004-05.
                                 Enact the new Law on       November 2004.                          Enforcing Contract Serbia significantly reduced
                                 Execution Procedures                                               Indicators         enterprise entry time from
                                                                                                                       51 days in 2004 to 15 days
                                                                                                                       in 2005; the number of
                                                                                                                       procedures was reduced
                                                                                                                       from 11 in 2004 to 10 in
                                                                                                                       2005; and the average
                                                                                                                       duration of court cases was
                                                                                                                       reduced from 1028 days in
                                                                                                                       2004 to about 600 days in
                                                                                                                       2005.
Improve the country's regulatory Prepare amendments to the Completed. Amendments to the             Steady increase in Good progress. There
framework                        Rules of Operation of the  Rules of Operation of the Government the use of RIA        has also been a steady
                                 Government necessary for requiring the responsible ministry to                        increase in the use of RIA:
                                 the introduction of        prepare a justification statement for a                    over 60 laws and decrees
                                 Regulatory Impact Analysis new law, a decree and an order in line                     have become subjected to
                                 and identify an entity     with the OECD Regulatory Impact                            RIA since October 2004.
                                 (Regulatory Reform         Assessment (RIA) were made in
                                 Council) to carry out this October 2004. A Regulatory Reform
                                 function                   Council and a small technical
                                                            secretariat have been established.
                                 Adopt amendments to the    Since October 2004, the Council has
                                 Rules of Operation of the  helped carry out for more than 60 draft
                                 Government requiring       laws.
                                 responsible ministry to




                                                               - 16 -

                                prepare justification
                                statement for a new law, a
                                decree and an order in line
                                with the OECD Regulatory
                                Impact Analysis
3. IMPROVE ENERGY
SECTOR PERFORMANCE
Adopt an enabling framework for Enact Energy Law that        Completed. A new Energy Law, with Full staffing of the Good progress. About 10
energy sector reform            includes the following       all the required provisions as set out inRegulator and         of the 35 total positions of
                                provisions: establishment ofthe condition, entered into force in Julyadoption of a          the regulatory agency have
                                an independent regulator;    2004. The Law is consistent with best business plan            been filled. Full staffing is
                                enabling the restructuring   practice for the region serves as the                          expected to be completed,
                                of EPS and the ownership/ basis for regulatory development, tariff                          and the agency fully
                                operation separation of      reform, Elektroprivreda Srbije (EPS)                           operational, in the first half
                                transmission; strengthening restructuring, and energy market                                of 2006. Among its
                                the legal framework for      liberalization. Staffing of the regulatory                     immediate priorities would
                                enforcement of payments      agency, although not yet complete, is                          be to develop a business
                                discipline                   underway with about 10 out of 35 total                         plan and a tariff schedule
                                                             positions filled, and the agency is                            toward cost recovery.
                                Adopt Energy Strategy        expected to be operational by January
                                                             2006. The Government also adopted
                                Appoint key personnel for    an Energy Strategy that explained the
                                the new Energy Regulator vision behind the Energy Law.
Adjust tariff level and its     Raise power tariffs to yield Completed.Increased tariff level by       Ongoing financial Limited progress. Tariff
structure to maintain cost      a revenue increase of the    10% to maintain an approximately          viability of EPS      adjustment for 2004 (10
recovery and improve energy     order of 10% for EPS from    constant real tariff in July 2004 relativedefined   as positive percent) and 2005 (9.5
efficiency incentives           July 1st; the tariff increaseto 2003; reformed the existing tariff     operating cash        percent) have helped EPS'
                                should comprise in part a    structure by reducing the first block     flow                  financial viability, but full
                                reduction of the first block tariff to 350 kWh.                                              cost recovery schedules
                                in the block tariff structure                                                                are yet to be developed by
                                to 350 kWh                                                                                   the regulatory agency.
Improve payments discipline     Keep residential             Completed. Collection rate for            Maintain             Good progress. Collection
                                collections--defined as      residential consumers was 91-92           residential          rate for residential
                                cash collected divided by    percent in 2004, and has slightly         collections ratio in consumers has been in line
                                invoices--for the first six  improved to 93 percent as of the third the range of 92-95 with benchmarks, rising
                                months of 2004 at or above quarter of 2005. Improving collections percent                   from 91-92 percent in 2004,
                                the level for the            from industrial consumers, however,                            to 93 percent in 2005.
                                corresponding period in      remains a big challenge.                                       Improving collections from
                                2003. Thereafter the six                                                                    industrial consumers,
                                month rolling average        A team was established that identified                         however, remains a big
                                should be at least as high   commercial non-technical losses, but                           challenge.
                                as the corresponding periodprogress in loss reduction has been
                                in the previous year         slow.

                                Form teams in distribution More than four of EPS' large electricity
                                companies and EPS            debtors for sale. In 2005, the Ministry
                                headquarters, and identify of Mines and Energy submitted an
                                where commercial losses      additional list of 15 largest debtors of
                                are a problem                electricity to the privatization agency
                                                             for action, but progress with
                                Offer at least four of EPS' privatization has been slow.
                                large electricity debtors for
                                sale and sell at least two of
                                them or viable parts
                                thereof--all in a manner
                                and on terms and
                                conditions satisfactory to
                                the Bank
Achieve power industry          Transfer out of EPS 8        Completed. More than 12 new
commercialization               non-core companies and       subsidiary companies were
                                establish within EPS from established and more than 8 non-core
                                non core assets 12 new       companies were transferred to these
                                subsidiary companies         subsidiary companies. A Government
                                                             decision was adopted to separate
                                Adopt a Government           ownership of power generation/
                                Decision to separate         distribution and transmission
                                ownership of power           businesses, and transmission
                                generation/ distribution and company has been separately set up




                                                                 - 17 -

                                    transmission businesses       and operational since July 2005. Net
                                                                  hiring freeze maintained at the Serbia
                                    Maintain net hiring freeze at Electric Company, EPS.
                                    EPS
4. STRENGTHENING
SOCIAL PROTECTION
Improve effectiveness of the        Ensure adequate funds         Completed. Helped ensure increased 13,000 new                Progress less than
safety net                          within the 2004 State         budget allocation for the               beneficiaries        expected. Only 8,000 new
                                    Budget and the draft 2005 implementation of the new Social            covered by MOP       beneficiaries have been
                                    State Budget submitted to Welfare Law: by increasing budget                                covered by MOP.
                                    the Parliament for full       allocation for the MOP by about 20
                                    implementation of the         percent (from about 0.1 percent of
                                    Social Welfare Law upon itsGDP prior to the Law), which allowed
                                    effectiveness                 for a modest expansion in coverage.
Mitigate the adverse impact of      Introduce a new mitigation Completed. The Government                  A minimum of         Progress less than
changes in the level and            scheme to support the poor introduced a new mitigation scheme to 50,000 new                expected. Only an
structure of electricity tariffs on and vulnerable population, support the poor and vulnerable            beneficiaries to be additional 17,000 families
the poor                            whereby recipients of child population, whereby recipients of child protected by the       have benefited from the
                                    benefit, minimum pension      benefit, minimum pension and            energy sector        electricity subsidy scheme
                                    and MOP are entitled to a     Material Support to Families program social safety net       to date.
                                    discount of no less than      (MOP) were entitled to a discount of
                                    30% of the monthly bill on    30% on their monthly electricity bill on
                                    consumption up to 300         consumption up to 300 kWh. The
                                    kWh                           program was introduced in the
                                                                  summer of 2004 and an additional
                                                                  17,000 families have benefited from
                                                                  the scheme.
Improve coordination between        Establish a working group Completed. A working group was
social protection programs and      consisting of                 established consisting of
energy related subsidies as well representatives from             representatives from MoME, MoSA,
as monitoring of social impact to MoME, MoSA, and EPS to and EPS to coordinate and oversee
achieve better targeting and        coordinate and oversee the the implementation of energy
efficiency                          implementation of energy      mitigation schemes. This working
                                    mitigation schemes            group is still functional. No poverty
                                                                  report was prepared in 2004, although
                                    Prepare a report on poverty the Republican Statistical Office has
                                    in 2004 based on              attempted to produce poverty numbers
                                    household survey to           (which are surrounded by
                                    monitor the social impact of considerable debate).
                                    reform and revise the
                                    program publication by
                                    RSO to include the
                                    production of poverty data
                                    on a regular basis
5. IMPROVING PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATION
Create a policy framework for       Complete the preparation of Completed.       The Public               Adoption of basic Good progress. All the
effective reform of the Public      a Strategy and Action Plan    Administration Reform Strategy (PAR)    laws (Law on        basic laws have been
Administration                      on Public Administration      and the related Action Plan were        Government, Law adopted, with the exception
                                    Reform                        adopted in November 2004. The           on Civil Service,   of the Law on Salaries
                                                                  Strategy is anchored in European        Law on Public       which is in draft stage and
                                    Adopt the Public              principles and                          Agencies, Law on expected to be adopted in
                                    Administration Reform         standards--professionalization,         State               the first half of 2006.
                                    Strategy and related Action   de-politicization, rationalization,     Administration
                                    Plan                          decentralization and                    and Law on
                                                                  modernization--and lays the             Salaries) on
                                                                  foundation for creation of a            public
                                                                  merit-based and de-politicized civil    administration
                                                                  service and for the rationalization of
                                                                  administrative structures in the central
                                                                  state administration.
Review the Salary System for theFinalize an in-depth review Completed. The Government                     The Law on           Good progress. The
central Civil Service               of the Civil Service pay      reviewed the Serbian civil service      Salaries sets        Government has introduced
                                    system and identify two       wage system to develop reform           compression ratio interim salary system
                                    alternative options for       proposals, which was subsequently       in civil service pay reforms through the 2005
                                    reform that will be fully     endorsed by the Public Administration at minimum 1:6         budget, which have




                                                                      - 18 -

                              explored and costed         Reform Council, outlining the direction                   decompressed the wage
                                                          of pay reforms. The Government has                        system from 1:4.9 to 1:8.
                                                          introduced interim salary system
                                                          reforms through the 2005 budget,
                                                          which have decompressed the wage
                                                          and salaries system from 1:4.9 to 1:8.
Establish an effective Public Create a management         Completed. The Government               Initial steps in  Good progress. The
Administration Management     structure for public        introduced a clear horizontal public    public            timeline for finalization of
Structures                    administration reform and   PAR structure. The development and administration         various PAR activities set
                              ensure that it has adequate implementation of the PAR strategy      reform are        out by the Action plan has
                              staffing and is fully       was assigned to the MPALSG; the         effectively       not always been fully
                              operational                 drafting work on PAR legislation was implemented          respected, but the
                                                          taken over by the Office for Legislationaccording to set  government has carried out
                                                          at the Government; and appropriate      deadlines         all activities albeit with
                                                          resources were allocated to manage                        some delays.
                                                          the PAR process.




                                                              - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not Applicable




                                      - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/17/2003                4    1 Lead Economist; 1 Team
                                              Leader (Sr Econ); 1 Sr. Energy
                                              Economist; 1 Research Analyst
               12/06/2003                8    1 Team Leader (Sr. Econ); 1 Sr.
                                              Public Sector Specialist; 1 Sr.
                                              Energy Economist; 1 Lead
                                              Specialist; 1 Sr. Economist; 1
                                              Operations Officer; 1 Research
                                              Analyst; 1 Consultant
               05/17/2004                7    1 Team Leader (Sr. Econ); 1 Sr.
                                              Energy Economist; 1 Lead
                                              Specialist; 1 Operations Officer;
                                              1 Research Analyst; 2
                                              Consultants

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               09/23/2004                7    1 Team Leader (Sr. Econ);
                                              1 Sr. Public Sector
                                              Specialist; 1 Sr. Energy
                                              Economist;
                                              1 Lead Specialist; 1
                                              Research; Analyst; 2
                                              Consultants

 Supervision
               01/01/2005                 6   1 Team Leader (Sr. Econ);              S               S
               -06/30/2005                    1 Sr. Public Sector
                                              Specialist;
                                              1 Sr. Energy Economist;
                                              1 Lead Specialist;
                                              1 Research Analyst


 ICR
               11/10/2005                2     1 Team Leader (Sr. Econ);             S               S
                                               1 Research Analyst



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              44.25                      178,746.29
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   20.34                        89,631.46
  Supervision                              2.49                        13,240.58
  ICR                                         4                           15,000



                                               - 22 -

Total    71.08         296,618.33




             - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank
Country Assistance Strategy for Serbia and Montenegro, Report No. 30426-YU, November 2004

Program Document on a Proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Republic of Serbia), Report No.
29857-YU, November 2004

"Serbia Structural Adjustment Credit 2 Back to Office Report of Identification Mission", November 10,
2003

"Serbia and Montenegro: Proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2), Republic of Serbia
(P078457) Initiating Concept Memorandum--Review Meeting" November 18, 2003

"Serbia and Montenegro: Proposed Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2), Republic of Serbia
(P078457) ­ Minutes/summary of the Initiating Concept Memorandum Review Meeting", December 3,
2003

"Serbia Structural Adjustment Credit 2 (P078457) Back-to-Office Report of Technical Preparation
Mission", December 30, 2003

"Serbia and Montenegro: (Republic of Serbia) SAC 2 Project, Minutes of Regional Operations Committee
(ROC) Review Meeting", September 20, 2004

"Serbia and Montenegro Second Structural Adjustment Credit (Republic of Serbia), Appraisal Mission
Aide Memoire", October 2004

"Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia): Structural Adjustment Credit 2 (P078457) Appraisal
Mission Back-to-Office Report", October 7, 2004

"Program Document for Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia) for the Proposed First Programmatic
and Financial Sector Development Policy Credit", October 2005

"Program Document for Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia) for the Proposed First Programmatic
Public Sector Development Policy Loan", Draft, November 2005

"Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper for Serbia", 2003.

Government
Republic of Serbia, Ministry of Finance, "Second Structural Adjustment Credit Completion Report"
December 8, 2005




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Evaluation of the Credit




                                         Republic of Serbia
                                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                                     Cabinet of the Minister
                                    Kneza Milosa 20, Belgrade
                                      Tel: +381 11 36 14 214
                                   Belgrade, December 8, 2005
           Subject: Second Structural Adjustment Credit Completion Report

        The initial transition measures in Serbia in the period 2001-2004 were aimed to provide
basic conditions for development of market economy, more efficient state sector, therefore
enabling growth in employment, living standards and economic output. The WB has addressed all
key areas relevant for the overall macroeconomic goals, through well designed and
comprehensive assistance strategy for Serbia.

        The Second Structural Adjustment Credit focused on key prerequisites to enable
sustainable growth and to provide fundamental institutional reforms leading towards EU
integration process. In line with this, we have defined four basic actions: improving the business
climate, improving the energy sector performance, enhancing the social protection and public
administration reform. The strategy was supported with the detailed activity log-frame including
key objectives, stakeholders and timings, providing for easy management and monitoring of the
reform process.

        This project proved as a very successful one, properly implemented and reaching its
objectives. The proper outcome indicator is a steady and continuous economic growth in 2004
and 2005, with the increased efficiency mainly due to the private sector growth. The results
enabled further continuation of the reforms started, supported with the First Programmatic Policy
Development Credit in 2005, namely paving the way for the energy sector restructuring, support
to the social programs for the redundant workers and privatization process. The results in area of
public administration reform have provided for momentum for further actions, in line with the
Strategy for the Public Administration Reform adopted.

(i)     Assessment of the project objective, design, implementation and operational experience

The project objectives design was comprehensive, understandable and easy to monitor and verify.
As usual, the specific policy/action matrix was developed to facilitate the project implementation
and enable easy monitoring of the project. The matrix was clear and understandable. The
objectives design included legislative improvements needed, as well as introduction of new units,
procedures and practices (example of the Regulatory Reform Council and Regulatory Impact
Analysis). The certain concrete actions were included in order to reach several objectives (to



                                               - 27 -

improve payment discipline towards power sector, enhanced tariff structure and more).

Once more the effective inter-ministerial proved as one of the critical factors for the project
success. Proper horizontal communication (between institutions) as well as vertical
communication (between institution management, experts, PIU and other relevant civil servants)
was a key for efficient activity implementation. The one example is rather quick response in
urgent activity of initiating Public Administration Reform. After many expert assessments on
limitations of the current state administration system, in close cooperation of the civil servants and
high management of the Ministry of State Administration and Ministry of Finance, the key
priorities were easily identified leading to the issuing of the Joint policy statement signed by both
relevant ministers, paving the way for the adoption of the State Administration Reform Strategy.

(ii)     Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation
of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future

As a consequence of the well prepared project, there were no major obstacles for the
implementation. The project goals fitted with overall Government strategy and administration is to
good extent already acquainted to WB practices. The lack of administrative and expert capacity in
state administration is still present, but with the trend of improvement. The lesson learnt is that it
is essential to provide for the institution's commitment in the implementation, including securing
adequate human resources to focus both on expertise and management out of the regular
institutions administrative activities.

(iii)    Evaluation of the performance by the Bank during the evolution and implementation of the
project, including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

The World Bank has maintained high standards of expertise needed as an external assistance to
state administration in process of significant reform, and in cases of capacity shortfalls in state
institutions. Besides the expert and strategic support of the visiting World Bank teams, local WB
Belgrade office continued to provide adequate support, covering local expertise, communication,
strong assistance to project management and coordination.

The lesson learnt is the importance of clear project rationale description/demonstration to relevant
high management tiers of the ministries/state institutions, and frequent communication of the WB
teams to the designated focal points in the partner state institutions.




                                                 - 28 -

- 29 -

