                                           Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY




                                                                            ReportNo.29857-YU


                                    PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                              OF THE

                    INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                              TO THE EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS

                                         ONA PROPOSED

        SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLIC OF SERBIA)

        INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR30.1MILLION(US$45 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO

                                 SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO



                                        November 15,2004




SouthEastEuropeCountryUnit
Poverty ReductionandEconomic ManagementUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region




L
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization

                                           GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                                                January 1-December 31

                                            CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                     (Exchange Rate Effective as o f October 30,2004)

                                           Currency Unit =Dinar
                                                   US$1 =CSD 59.77

                                            WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                                    Metric System

                                        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APAD   Agency for Public Administrationand Development               MPALSG Ministryo fPublic Administration and Local Self
BEEPS  Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey                   Government
CAD    Current Account Deficit                                       NBS        National Bank o f Serbia
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                                   OECD       Organization for Economic Co-operation and
CFAA   Country FinancialAccountability Assessment                               Development
CLDS   Center for Liberal-Democratic Studies                         P A        Public Administration
csc    Civil Service Council                                         PAR        Public Administration Reform
DFID   Department for International Development                      PFSAC      Private and Financial Sector  Adjustment Credit
EA     Extended Arrangement                                          PFSAC 1 FirstPrivate andFinancial Sector
EAR    EuropeanAgency for Reconstruction                                        Adjustment Credit
EC     EuropeanCommission                                            PFSAC 2 Second Private and Financial Sector
ECA    Europe and Central Asia                                                  Adjustment Credit
ECSEE  EnergyCommunity o f SouthEast Europe                          PICS       Productivity and Investment Climate Survey
EPS    Electric Power Industryo f Serbia                             PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ERTP   Economic Recovery and Transition Program                      PSIA       Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
EU     EuropeanUnion                                                 REM        Regional EnergyMarket
FDI    Foreign Direct Investment                                     RIA        Regulatory Impact Analysis
FIAS   ForeignInvestment Advisory Service                            RSO        Republican Statistical Office
FRY    Federal Republic o fYugoslavia                                SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                                        SAC 1      FirstStructural Adjustment Credit
HBS    Household Budget Survey                                       SAC 2      Second Structural Adjustment Credit
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstruction and                      SA1        Supreme Audit Institution
       Development                                                   S A M      Serbia and Montenegro
I C A  Investment Climate Assessment                                 SDR        Special Drawing Right
ICRC   InternationalCommittee of the RedCross                        SEE        Southeast Europe
IDA    InternationalDevelopment Association                          SFRY       Socialist FederalRepublic o f Yugoslavia
IDP    Internally DisplacedPerson                                    SIDA       Swedish InternationalDevelopment Cooperation
ILO    InternationalLabor Organization                                          Agency
IMF    InternationalMonetary Fund                                    SLS         Survey o fLiving Standards
LFS    Labor Force Survey                                            SME         Small and MediumEnterprises
MIER   Ministry of InternationalEconomic Relations                   SOSAC      Social Sector Adjustment Credit
MLESP  MinistryofLabor, Employment and SocialPolicy                  TSS        Transitional Support Strategy
MOF    MinistryofFinance                                             UNDP       UnitedNations Development Programme
MOME   MinistryofMining and Energy                                   USAID      UnitedStates Agency for International
MOP    Material Assistance to Families                                          Development
MOSA   Ministryof SocialAffairs                                      CSD         Yugoslav Dinars



                                       Country Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
                                         Sector Director:   Cheryl W. Gray, ECSPE
                                        Sector Manager:     Bernard Funck, ECSPE

                                SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO
           SECOND STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT (REPUBLICOFSERBIA)

                                      CREDIT SUMMARY

     Borrower:                  Serbia andMontenegro (SaM)

     Amount:                    SDR 30.1 million(US$45 million equivalent)

     Terms:                     ModifiedIDA terms with a20-year maturity, including a 10-year
                                graceperiod andno acceleration clause.

     Objectives andDescription: The proposed credit is a Second Structural Adjustment Credit
                                (SAC 2) to support the Government o f the Republic o f Serbia in
                                the implementation of structural reforms necessary to lay the
                                foundations for enduring growth and macroeconomic stability
                                over the medium-term. The reform program to be supported by
                                the proposed operation aims at achieving these objectives
                                through implementing specific policy actions-in     line with the
                                priorities set out in the Serbia Poverty Reduction Strategy
                                Paper-directed     at (i)improving the business climate; (ii)
                                enhancing the performance in the energy sector;                (iii)
                                strengthening social protection; and (iv) improving public
                                administration.

     Benefits:                  The proposed SAC 2 would support the Republic of Serbia to
                                deepen the reform process necessary to place the economy on a
                                sustainable growth path and move closer to European structures.
                                Successhl implementation of these policy measures would
                                support the Government's efforts to (i)  enhance fiscal discipline;
                                (ii)encourageastrongprivatesectorresponseandemployment
                                creation; (iii)
                                              set the stage for deeper reforms aimed at improving
                                public administration; (iv) address the problem of low-coverage
                                and under-funding o f Serbia's well-targeted social assistance
                                programs; and (v) mitigate the adverse impact o f the energy
                                sector reform measureson the poor.

     Risks:                     The formation o f a fragile but functioning minority coalition in
                                early March 2004 ended two months o f political deadlock in
                                Serbia following the legislative elections on December 28, 2003.
                                Serbian Presidential elections were concluded in June 2004,
                                bolstering stability. There are, however, a number o f issuesto be
                                sorted out among ruling coalition partners and the party o f the
                                newly elected President, which has not joined the coalition. The
                                challenges o f ruling as a minority coalition could undermine the
                                Government's cohesiveness and effectiveness, without which
                                commitment to reforms would diminish and the capacity for
                                policy implementation would weaken.

This documenthas a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipientsonly in
the performanceof their official duties.Its contents may not be othert~rise                  disclosed
without World Bankauthorization.

                             The     envisaged  fiscal  adjustment    and     macroeconomic
                             performance could be adversely affected by slippages inprogram
                             implementation. More specifically, failure to attain durable cuts
                             in non-interest   current expenditures   could undermine the
                             credibility of the fiscal adjustment, thereby jeopardizing the
                             implementation of the overall reform program. In addition,
                              Serbia's  exports are concentrated in unskilled and natural
                             resource intensive products, which increases the economy's
                              exposure to terms of trade shocks. A severe deterioration o f
                             terms of trade or lower-than-expected foreign investment flows
                             coupled with higher-than-expected oil prices might adversely
                              affect economic activity and macroeconomic stability, thereby
                             undermining the implementation pace ofthe reform agenda.

Schedule of Disbursements:    Single tranche.

Poverty Category:            N o t applicable.

Project IDNumber:            PO78457

Map                          IBRDNo. 31506R2




This operation was prepared by a Team including Ilker Domac (Team Leader), Lazar Sestovic,
Tony Verheijen, R u s h Yemtsov (ECSPE), David Kennedy (ECSIE), Itzhak Goldberg, Branko
Radulovic (ECSPF), Peter R. Kyle (LEGPS), Marina Petrovic, Dena Ringold (ECSHD), and
Aleksandra Rabrenovic (Consultant). Legal, disbursement and financial management support
were provided by Gennady Pilch (LEGEC), Joseph Formoso (LOAGl), Michael Gascoyne, Siew
Chai Ting (ECSPS), and Miroslav Frick (ECCYU). The peer reviewers were Sanjay Kathuria
(LCSPE) and Sanjay K.Dhar (EASPR). The Team benefited from valuable comments from Ardo
Hansson (ECSPE) and Nancy Cooke (ECCU4). Processing assistance from Nancy Davies-Cole
i s gratefully acknowledged.

                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                         PROGRAMDOCUMENT
           ONA PROPOSEDSECONDSTRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                          (REPUBLICOF SERBIA)
                                 TO SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO

                                                          Contents

I.INTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................................     1

I1.ECONOMIC BACKGROUNDAND RECENTDEVELOPMENTS..........................................                                                       3

I11.THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM......................................................................                                   6

IV.THE COMPONENTS OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..............................................................                                      7
    A.Improvingthe Business Climate ...........................................................................................              9
    B.Energy Sector: InstitutionalDevelopment andPerformance Improvement........................                                            14
    C.Strengthening Social Protection .......................................................................................... 18
    D.ImprovingPublic Administration........................................................................................                22

V.MEDIUM-TERMPROSPECTSAND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ................................                                                           27

VI. THE PROPOSED CREDIT .......................................................................................................             29
    A.Rationale andObjectives.....................................................................................................          29
    B.Links to the Country Assistance Strategy............................................................................                  29
     C.BoardConditions and Tranche Triggers..............................................................................                    30
    D.Poverty Implications............................................................................................................      30
    E.Coordination with the IMFand other Donors......................................................................                        30
    F.Financial Arrangements .......................................................................................................         31
     G.Benefits andRisks...............................................................................................................      32


TABLES
Table 1:Evolutiono fEconomic Activity. 2001-04...........................................................................                     5
Table 2: Pre-payments......................................................................................................................  11
Table 3: EnforcingContract Indicators............................................................................................            12
Table 4: SaM- Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects...............................................................                             27
Table 5: Financing requirements (US$ millions) .............................................................................                 28


TEXT BOXES
Box 1:The Proposed SAC 2 and the Serbia PRSP............................................................................                      8
Box 2: A Brief Overview o fthe Pay andBenefit System inthe Serbian Civil Service...................26



FIGURES
Figure 1:Evolutionof SelectedMacroeconomic Variables ..............................................................                           2

ANNEXES:
    Annex 1:    K e y Economic Indicators
    Annex 2:    KeyExposure Indicators
    Annex 3:    Timetable o fKeyProcessing Events
    Annex 4:    Letter ofDevelopment Policy
    Annex 5:    Program Policy Matrix
    Annex 6:    Serbia andMontenegro at a Glance
    Annex 7:    FundRelationsNote

                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                                          PROGRAMDOCUMENT
       FORA PROPOSEDSECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                                          (REPUBLIC OF SERBIA)
                                   TO SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

1.        This Report constitutes the Program Document on a roposed Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) to SerbiaandMontenegro (SaM) inthe amount of SDR 30.1     ,P
million (US$45 million equivalent) to support Serbia's structural reform program.2 The
Credit would be on modified Intemational Development Association (IDA) terms, with a
final maturity o f 20 years and a grace period o f 10 years, and would be disbursed in one
tranche immediately after Credit Effectiveness.                            This Report should be read in
conjunction with the joint World Bank-FC FY05-07 CAS for Serbia and Montenegro,
which is beingpresentedto the Boardtogether with the proposed SAC 2.

                                                 I.INTRODUCTION
2.        Serbia started the 1990s relatively well integrated with the world economy and
with higher standards o f living compared to many other transition economies. The
country's economy, however, was devastatedas a result o f armed conflicts, intemational
sanctions, andtrade shocks stemming from the break-up o fthe Socialist Federal Republic
ofYugoslavia (SFRY). By2000, recordedper capita GDPhad fallen to below one half of
its 1989 level. Foreigntrade volumes also fell noticeably, while the country experienced
chronic high inflation coupled with accumulation o f large domestic and extemal debts,
with the latter reaching 132.6 percent o f GDP in2000.

3.        Although cash deficits o f the consolidated government were contained, this was
achieved largely through unsustainable expenditure compression, accumulation o f
budgetaryarrears, non-servicing o fpublic debt, andtoleration ofquasi-fiscal deficits. The
real sector became largely inefficient due to the lack o f market oriented ownership
structures, the loss o f markets, lack o f access to working capital, delayed investment and
maintenance, and repressive and complicated taxation and regulation. This resulted in a
decrease in real earnings, with absolute poverty roughly doubling since 1990 and
deterioration in social protection and health services, as available financing fell below
existing entitlement levels.

4.        Serbia embarked on an ambitious economic program in January 2001 with the
objective to reverse the trends of the past-through                     ensuring a rapidtransitionto an open
market economy and normalizing relations with intemational financial markets-and

' Formerly known as "the Federal Republic o f Yugoslavia" (FRY). The Constitutional Charter o f Serbia and
Montenegro was enacted by the Parliament o f Serbia, the Parliament of Montenegro and the Parliament o f the Federal
Republic o f Yugoslavia effective February 4, 2003 and, as of that date, the Federal Republic o f Yugoslavia has
changed its name to "Serbia and Montenegro." In this document, all references to SaM which predate the change o f
name should be understood to refer to FRY.
'As  a result o f the highly devolved nature o f SAM-most     areas o f economic policy are in the competence o f the two
Republican member states-and      the different starting points, needs and pace o f reforms in the two member states, the
Bank's assistance program for SAM is designed primarilyaround member state-specific operations. Therefore, for the
purposes o f this document, the term "Government" would designate the Government o f Serbia, unless otherwise
specified.

  integrate the economy with the European Union. The implementation of the economic
  program has been successful in bringing down inflation, stabilizing the exchange rate,
  and inestablishing macroeconomic stability (Figure 1).

  5.        SaM has also made significant progress in the implementation of structural
  reform measures outlined in the medium-term Economic Recovery and Transition
  Program (EiRTP),3 but not evenly across all areas. More specifically, there has been
  considerable progress in opening the economy, restructuring the banking sector, and
  adopting legislation in many areas aimed at harmonization with the European Union. In
  many areas, however, the reforms are still incomplete, and in several areas the reform
  process has hardly initiated. As was underscored in Recent Progress on Structural
  Reforms-a       document preparedby the World Bank for the Donor Coordination Meeting
  inNovember 2003-progress                 inthe following policy areas hasbeen slower-than-desired
  (i)improvingtheprivatesectorincentiveframework; (ii)                           strengthening the productive,
  financial, andinfrastructure sectors; and (iii)              reformingthe public sector.

  Figure 1:Evolutionof SelectedMacroeconomic Variables
                      GDP Growth                                               InJation (retail price)




                                                                                            I          I
           2WO     ?ob1     2602     2603       Zdo4              2000         2001        2002       2003        2


                   FiscalBalancea'b                                        CurrentAccount Balancea




 otes: Figuresfor 2004 are projections; a: as a % of GDP, after grants; b: The sharp increaseinthe deficit in2002 is due
largelyto the acknowledgement of the hidden fiscal liabilities.


    See Breaking With the Past: ThePath to Stability and Growth, World Bank, (2001) for more on the medium-term
  ERTP.


                                                             2

            11.ECONOMIC BACKGROUNDAND RECENTDEVELOPMENTS


6.       Economiccontext.The implementation of the economic reform program, which
was launched in early 2001, has marked a sea change in policy in Serbia. The
stabilization program, which was supported by the IMF, World Bank, and European
Union, contained four pillars4(i)          implementation o f prudent fiscal and monetary policies
to achieve macroeconomic stability; (ii) liberalization of most prices, removal o f
                                                      rapid
most quantitativerestrictions on foreign trade, and rationalization of import tariffs; (iii)
policy actions to establish effective institutions o f macroeconomic p01icy;~and (iv)
implementation o f a set structural reform measures in the labor market, competition
policy, bank restructuring, pension and social policy reform, public administration,
judicial system, privatization-all             o f which aimed at improving the efficiency and
flexibility o fthe economy.

7.       The reduction o f fiscal deficits towards levels financeable from non-inflationary
sources constituted the crux o f the stabilization efforts owingto the need to confiont and
manage the hidden liabilities that arose from the unsustainable policies in the past. The
noted policy efforts have been supported by three successive arrangements with the
IMF-most         recently by a three year long Extended Arrangement of SDR 650 million
spanning the periodthrough end-March 2005.

8.       A highly concessional November 2001 debt restructuring agreement with the
Paris Club enhanced medium term fiscal sustainability. This agreement involved, inter
alia, aphased66 percent reduction inthe net present value o f commercial obligations and
a rescheduling o f the remaining stock over 22 years with a 6-year grace period. In July
2004, the Government also reached an agreement with the London Club o f commercial
creditors, settling Serbia's outstanding US$2.7 billion debt. The agreement implies
roughly a 62 net present value write-off, and reschedules the rest over the next 20 years
with 3.75 percent interest rate inthe first five years and 6.75 percent interest during the
remaining 15 years.

9.       The World Bankhas been supporting the Serbian Government's reformagenda as
was outlined in a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) produced on June 26, 2001, which
was updated in August 2002 and in February 2004. A multi-sectoral Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC, approved in January 2002) was designed to enhance fiscal
sustainability through reforms o f public expenditure management, the energy sector,
social protection, labor markets, and health care. A Social Sector Adjustment Credit
(SOSAC, approved in April 2003) aimed at supporting reforms in pensions, health and
labor, while enhancing the focus on social assistance and poverty monitoring. Two
Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (PFSACI and 2, approved inMay 2002
and June 2003) aimed at promotinggrowth through (i)                     strengthening the financial system


  See EconomicRecoveryand Transition Programand various IMF performancereviews of the Stand-By Agreement
for more on this.
  These actions included consolidation of fiscal and quasi fiscal activities into single federal, republican and local
budgets, rationalizationof the tax system, creation of a treasury and modem payments system, and removal of the
centralbank andstate bodies-excluding the Ministry of Finance and Economy-from fiscal andquasi fiscal activities.


                                                         3

via the liquidationof troubled banks and animproved policy andregulatory environment;
(ii) privatizing and restructuring socially-owned enterprises; and (iii)                     improving the
investment andbusiness climate.

10.      Recent progress in structural reforms. Structural reforms in Serbia have
advanced slower-than-desired in certain areas since late 2003 owing mainly to political
uncertainties. However, the implementation pace has picked up since mid-July 2004 as
was evidenced by the approval o f a package o f 17 economic reform laws by the
Parliament o f Serbia including those on bankruptcy, VAT, and energy. Moreover,
enterprise privatizationhas resumed with the issuanceo f tenders for eight socially-owned
enterprises and 191 auctions. Financial sector reform has also gained some momentum
with the issuance o f tenders for three banks, which, once completed, should reduce the
share o fthe state intotal bank assets significantly.

11.      Recent economic developments. The strong implementation o f stabilization and
reform program was accompanied by solid economic recovery following the sharp
contraction in 1999: SaM's GDP grew by 5.5 percent and 4 percent in2001 and in2002,
respectively (Table 1).6 By 2003, however, the initially buoyant recovery slowed down:
real GDP growth declined to 3 percent-lower                 thanthe programtarget of 3.5-4.5 percent
due mainly to two reasons. First, the assassination of the Serbian Prime Minister Zoran
Djindjic in March 2003 coupled with the decision to hold early Serbian parliamentary
elections inDecember 2003 led to political uncertainty, thereby adversely affecting both
the implementation o f key structural reforms and overall economic activity. Second, the
drought in northern Serbia and pre-privatization uncertainty, coupled with insufficient
investment and general lack of competitiveness, led to the unsatisfactory performance in
industryandagriculture, thereby negatively affecting growth.

12.      SaM's GDP i s expected to grow by about 6 percent in 2004, reflecting a strong
recovery inindustry (due to acceleratedprivatization in2003) strong growth in services,
and a rebound in agricultural output. Available data is in line with the noted growth
projection. Against the backdrop o f a strong recovery in manufacturing, industrial
production in SaM grew by 7.2 percent year-on-year in the first eight months of 2004.
Concurrently, retail sales inthe first eight months increasedby 14.2 percent year-on-year,
reflectinga pick up ineconomic activity.




 Serbia accounts for about 93 percent of SaM's economy.      In this document, all references to GDP should be
understood to refer to SaM's GDP unless otherwise indicated.



                                                         4

Table 1:Evolution of Economic Activity, 2001-04
                             GDPGrowth (constant prices)                           Share in GDP
                            2001        2002        2003     2004a          2001       2002        2003         2004"
Real GDP Growth               5.5         4.0         3.0         6.0       100.0     100.0       100.0          100.0

    Domestic Demand          12.1       10.1          4.4         9.6       120.9     123.4       122.5          125.2
         Consumption         12.4         7.5         4.5         9.2       107.2     107.2       106.6          108.6

         Investment           9.2       34.4          3.6        13.1        13.6       16.2       15.9           16.5

      Exports                 8.6       12.3          4.3       38.0         23.7       20.9        19.9          24.2

      Imports                30.0       26.3          7.2       29.7         44.6       44.3       42.4           49.4
a: Estimate


13.       Prices. The exchange rate-based stabilization program has been very effective in
reducing inflation inSerbia. Retail price inflation declined from 113.5 percent in2000 to
14.8 percent in 2002 and further to 7.8 percent in 2003. Following the liberalization o f
the foreign exchange market and unification o f the exchange rate in October 2000, the
dinar initially remained close to 30 dinar to the deutschmark, later 60 dinar to euro.
Although the nominal exchangerate o fthe dinar to the D W u r o remained broadly stable
andunified during2001 and 2002, it depreciated (appreciated) against the euro (USD) by
11.1(7.4 percent) percent in2003 comparedto end-December 2002.

14.       As a result o f higher oil prices, more flexible exchange rate p~licy,~                        increased
electricityprices, andhigher excise taxes, the inflation rate i s projected to bebetween 12-
13 percent in 2004 (compared to 7.8 percent in 2003).* The credibility o f program
implementation will determine whether the adverse impact of the noted one-off factors on                                 '


inflationwill bepermanent or temporary.

15.       Fiscal balance. The performance on the fiscal side-gauged                            by meeting the
program targets under the IMF supported economic program-has                             also been favorable.'
SaM's 2003 fiscal deficit o f 3.2 percent of GDP was 1.3 percent of GDP below the target
under the IMFprogram due to slower than expected disbursement of grants and foreign
financed projects. The 2004 budget was not adopted until end-March and thus fiscal
policy was tightened inthe first quarter of the year as temporary financing arrangements
automatically restrained expenditure.

16.       In response to unfavorable external developments and rising inflationary
pressures, the Republic of Serbia Parliament adopted a re-balanced budget for 2004 in
October, whichrepresents an important step towards reducingpublic consumption. More
specifically, the re-balanced budget for 2004, which relies mainly on expenditures cuts,
envisages a reductiono f the budget deficit from CSD 45.3 billion(3.5 percent o f Serbian


  Innominal terms, the dinar depreciatedby 14and 4.1 percent inOctober 2004 (y-0-y) againstthe Euro andthe US$,
respectively.
  In response to the noted development, the National Bank of Serbia raised its mandatory reserve requirement for
commercial banksfrom 18percent to 21 percent starting from August 11,2004.
 The consolidated budget deficit of 1.4percent o f GDP in2001 turned out to be noticeably lower than that the program
target of 6.1 percent o f GDP. The target of 5.7 percent of GDP for 2002 was also comfortably met, although the
outcomewas significantly higher thanthat o f 2001 as aresult o f the acknowledgement o fhidden fiscal liabilities.


                                                         5

                                                     I.
GDP) to CSD 32.7 billion (2.5 percent of Serbian GDP). The draft budget for 2005
suggeststhat fiscal policy will continue to remaintight in2005.

 17.      External balance. Following the ending o f regional conflicts and removal of
international sanctions, the country experienced large current account deficits. More
specifically, the combined effect o f low and slowly growing exports" and rapidly
growing imports of goods and services (which grew by an average o f 28.7 percent per
year in US dollar terms during 2001-03) led to an increase in SaM's current account
deficit (after grants) from US$339 million(3.9 percent o f GDP) in2000 to an estimated
US$1.96 billion (9.6 percent o f GDP) in2003.

18.       As a result o f the combination of higher oil prices, a surge in imports, and slow
growth o f exports during the first eight months of 2004, the projected current account
deficit (after grants) for 2004 i s revised upwards from 9.6 percent o f GDP to 10.7
percent. As was underlined previously, the noted external developments, coupled with
increasing inflationary pressures, led the authorities to adopt tighter fiscal and monetary
policies to ensure external viability andprice stability.


                     111.THE COUNTRY'SADJUSTMENT PROGRAM


19.       The overall economic reform strategy, as was outlined inthe Serbia PRSP, rests
on three main pillars (i)        dynamic economic growth and development, with an emphasis
onjob creation; (ii)      prevention of new povertythat will stem from the modernization and
restructuring o f the economy; and (iii)          efficient implementation of existing programs and
development of new programs, measures, activities directly targeting the poorest and the
most vulnerable groups, particularly inthe least developed regions.

20.       Guidedby the above-noted strategic directions, the authorities are determined to
maintainmacroeconomic stability and place the country on the road o f sustained growth,
better living standards and integration into European structures. To achieve these goals,
the Government is resolute to addresstwo key challenges:


     0    Fiscal Adjustment. Although Serbia has made good progress inreducinghidden
          fiscal imbalances, particularlybudgetary arrears and losses in the energy sector,
          consolidated public spending (including net lending) has steadily increased to a
          very high46.5 percent of Serbian GDP in 2003, very little of which goes to the
          public investments which are crucial for growth." The resulting hightax burden
          and budget deficits crowd out private activity and encourage informality, while
          also raising macroeconomic vulnerability. Set against this backdrop, the country
          needs to give top priority to measures to achieve a credible fiscal consolidation
          without which key policy goals of ensuring macroeconomic stability and
          sustainable growth cannot be achieved. Credible fiscal adjustment will need to be

''SaM's exports in 2000 were less than 43 percent of 1989 levels, suggesting that exports are clearly well below
potentiallevels.Inspite ofthis significant catchuppotential, export growth hasbeen sluggish.
'I Increases in wages and transfers were the key contributing factors to the rapid expansion of govemment
expenditures.



                                                         6

         attained through sustainable changes in fiscal policy, as opposed to drastic and
         unsustainable cuts in public investment and non-wage current expenditures. A
         successful fiscal adjustment will lead to an increase in national savings and
         buttress macroeconomic stability, thereby creating a conducive environment for
         sustainable economic growth.

    0    Sustainableeconomic growth will require the implementation of economy-wide
         structural reforms, including those in the four policy areas supported by the
         proposed operation (i)reforms of the business enabling environment; (ii)
         institutional development and improving performance in the energy sector; (iii)
         strengthening social protection; and (iv) improving public administration. The
         proposed operation will include reform measures aimed at supporting the
         Government's efforts to alleviate the social consequences o f the reform measures
         and encourage a robust private sector response-all of which lay the foundations
         of an economy that would produce a more rapid and durable growth o f living
         standards over the medium-term.


21.      The authorities are committed to continue progress on economy-wide structural
reforms to address the noted challenges and cooperate with international financial
institutions towards successful implementation of the reform agenda. To this end, the
Government has successfully implemented series of important structural reform measures
supported by the World Bank's previous operations (see para 9). Concurrently, the
Government, in cooperation with the IMF and the World Bank, formulated a medium-
term stabilization and reform program for 2002-05, which has been supported by a three-
year Extended Arrangement (EA). Attaining sustainable growth and improved living
standards, low inflation, and a viable external position constitute the main objectives of
the EA.

22.      The Government has requested this Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2)
to deepen its earlier reform efforts described above and to support its medium-term
structural and institutional reform program. The SAC 2 financing will allow a smoother
adjustment and more time and resources to implement the Government's structural
program. It will also complement the authorities' macroeconomic framework supported
bythe IMF's EA.


               IV.THE COMPONENTSOFTHE PROPOSEDCREDIT


23.      Main Reform Objectives. The proposed operation would support the country's
efforts to place the economy on a more solid basis for enduring growth, enhancing fiscal
discipline, and integration into European structures. This will be accomplished through
implementation ofreformmeasuresdirected at the following objectives:


    0    Improving the business climate, which i s required to create an environment that i s
         conducive to attracting investments both domestic and foreign, thereby promoting
         a strongprivate sector response and employment creation.




                                             7

     0    Institutional development and improvingperformance in the energy sector, which
          will entail, inter alia, improving financial and operational sustainability o f the
          power sector as well as supporting industrycommercialization-all                      o f which will
           encourage growth and enhance fiscal discipline.

     0    Strengthening social protection i s needed not only for alleviating the adverse
          consequences o f the reform measures envisioned in the Government's structural
          reform program, but also for improving social protection o fthe poor.

     0    Improvingpublic administration i s a prerequisite for attaining further progress in
          the implementation of much needed economic and social reforms as well as for
           achieving apermanent fiscal adjustment.12



Box 1: The Proposed SAC 2 and the Serbia PRSP

          The key tenets o f the proposed operation are consistent with the main thrust of the recent Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) for Serbia which considers dynamic, sustainable growth and
development, with emphasis on job creation, as one o f the three strategic main directions in the
implementation o f the poverty reduction strategy. As was underscored inthe PRSP, creation of a business
environment conducive to the development of entrepreneurship and faster development of small and
medium enterprises as well as rendering the Serbian economy more hospitable to foreign and domestic
investment are among the key elements o f ensuring dynamic and equitable growth. Since the unemployed
face the greatest risk o f deep and severe poverty, successful implementation o f reform measures directed at
these objectives will also stimulate employment, thereby mitigating poverty.
          Energy sector reform measures will contribute to realization of PRSP goals through improved
overall efficiency and strengthened fiscal discipline through addressing the problemo f implicit subsidies.
Improving the eficiency of socialprotection is one o f the key PRSP objectives. As was highlightedinthe
PRSP, the Government's objective in social protection i s "the alleviation of poverty in the population as a
whole and especially in vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly and infm,the Roma, persons with
disabilities, poverty-stricken refugees, and internally displaced persons." The PRSP underlines that the
existing social protection system aimed at the alleviation o f poverty is basically sound and modem. Further
strengthening o f the social protection of the poorest will be ensured by the implementation o f recent
amendments to the Law on Social Protection and Social Security o f Citizens, which will, inter alia, increase
the number o fbeneficiaries and the amount o fbenefits. Inthis respect, the full implementation o f the noted
amendments will hinge on ensuring the allocation o f adequate funds.
          Finally, the PRSP views a well organized and competent public administration as a key
precondition for successful integration into the European Union. To this end, it identifies the creation o f a
dynamic, efficient and transparent public administration in line with the new role o f Government in the
market economy, as well as with private sector development and stable legislation as the key policy
objective inthis area.
Source: Poverty Reduction StrategyPaperfor Serbia (2003).

24.       The reform measures in the noted policy areas-except                               for the public
administration reform-constitute a continuation and deepening o f the reform efforts
initiated by the World Bank's previous adjustment operations in Serbia and are in line
with objectives of Serbia's PRSP (Box 1). The focus on these areas is also supported by



  Weaknesses in the institutional systems in Serbiawill seriously affect the design and implementationof economic
and social reformprograms ifa substantial improvementinthe quality ofpublic administrationsystems is not achieved.
Furthermore, unreformedadministrative systems would continue to impose a high fiscal burden, as salary and wage
cost as apercentageof GDP would remaintoo high.


                                                        8

the Bank's economic sector work13andintensive dialogue with relevant counterparts-all
o f which will promote successful implementation of the reforms supported by the
prop0sedoperation.

25.      The authorities recognize that implementation of policy actions inthe noted areas
represent a central part o f their overall reform efforts in improving Serbia's growth
prospects and buttressing macroeconomic stability, which will need to be supported by
far-reaching reform measures aimed at attaining a permanent fiscal adjustment and
deepening the reform process in improving public administration. The Government i s
committed to continue its collaboration with the World Bank and other international
partners inattaining these objectives.


A. Improvingthe BusinessClimate

Context

26.      Since late 2000, the Government o f Serbia, supported by the Bank and other
donors, has taken a number o f significant steps to improve the business environment.
Notwithstanding the challenging political environment, important policy steps aimed at
improving the business climate were taken between 2000 and 2003, including
liberalization and deregulation o f foreign trade and investment, simplification o f the tax
regime, and modernization of the labor legislation. However, as was underscored inthe
recent Investment Climate Assessment (ICA), increasing foreign direct investment,
domestic investment, and entry o fnew firms along with restructuring o f the old ones will
require greater progress inreformingthe institutional environment for investment.

27.      The Government's efforts to improve the investment framework mainly focused
on further upgrading the legal foundations and institutional capacity for a sound
investment climate through (i)         promotion o f sustainable economic growth and enabling
private sector employment opportunities with a special focus on Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs); (ii)         establishment o f the necessary financial market institutions
through the development o f an environment where the rule o f law is respected and
property rights and claims are recognized, economic agents can enforce their contracts,
and lenders can feel secure; (iii)establishment of a regulatory framework that is
conducive to the development o f competitive market structures; and (iv) improving
institutionalcapacity for regulatory refom.

ReformObjectivesandSACMeasures

28.      This component o f the reform program will deepen the policy actions initiated by
the PFSAC 2 and support the Government's objectives to (i)fuciZitute eficient corporate



l3Recent analyticalbackgroundwork includesthe following studies carriedout by the World Bank: SerbiaInvestment
Climate Assessment (2004), Serbia and Montenegro: Poverty Assessment (2003), Serbia and Montenegro Public
Administration Development: Creatingthe Conditions for Effective Economic and Social Reform Policy Note (2004),
Recent Progress on Structural Reforms (2003), and Serbian Energy Sector: Status, Key Issues and an Agenda for
Action (2003).


                                                      9

governance and entry and operations of business through adopting a new Law on
Economic Entities (Enterprise Law); (ii) legislative and other barriers to eficient
                                                remove
contract enforcement through the adoption of a new Law on Enforcement Procedures;
and (iii) the cost of doing business and improve regulatory reform by enhancing
         lower
the authority and capacity to assess the needfor and quality of regulations and market
impacts ofproposed rules on business.

29.    The Enterprise Law. The Government is committed to changing the Enterprise
Law, which constitutes an important component o f the commercial law system and
provides the basis for other laws, such as privatization, business registration, bankruptcy,
accounting, capital markets and investment funds that have either been passed recently or
will be passed in the near future.14          The new Law introduces significant reforms in
generic subjects such as duties of directors and other persons in control of a company;
lawsuits by investors, mergers and other acquisitions; and liquidation of a company
outside bankruptcy. After a public consultation process, the new L a w was adopted by the
Government in October and was subsequently enacted by the Parliament of Serbia in
November 2004. The most important improvements o f the new Law, which i s consistent
with the requirements ofEUCompanyLaw Directives, canbe summarized as follows:

    e   The limited liability company provisions of the law are more flexible (the
       minimum capital requirement is reduced from USD5,OOO per company to 500
       Euros per company and there is no longer a requirement of capital maintenance).

    e   The law introduces two types of joint stock companies, namely closed and open.
       The new closed company will be free of capital maintenance requirements and
       will be free to impose restrictions on the transfer of its shares, but cannot offer its
        shares publicly and may not have more than 100 shareholders unless it adopts and
        agrees to follow the rules andrequirements for an open company.

    e  A large number of changes are made to encourage good corporate governance.
       The law expands and clarifies a director's legal duty o f care and duty of loyalty to
       the company, introduces the concept of "personal interest",                simplifies the
        structure of the board, makes the establishment of a supervisory board optional
        andprovides for directors to be elected onlybythe shareholders andto have only
       one-year terms.

    e  The new law also has detailed provisions for merger, division, and conversion of
       a company from one form to another; it imposes new disclosure and other
       requirements on companies and persons who control a company and it provides
       new rules for the liquidation of a company outside bankruptcy.


30.    Law on Execution Procedures. Contractual compliance and enforcement
mechanisms constitute the key elements o f a country's investment climate. Evidence
suggests that better contract enforcement is an important component of policy efforts
directed at encouraging investment and creating jobs. Progress in this area (and in
improvingthe business climate ingeneral) is especially importantfor small andmedium-


l4The Bankhasprovidedsupport for the development of anew draft Law underPFSAC2.


                                                    10

sized firms and farms, which are key to job creation and to raising the living standards o f
the rural poor.

31.       A s is the case in many other transition economies, the general perception in
Serbia i s that the courts do not function well and that the administration ofjustice is slow
and inefficient. This is confirmed by the recent Investment Climate Assessment (ICA)
survey, which revealed an extremely low level of confidence inthe judicial system: only
8percent of enterprises included in the survey believe that their contracts enjoyfull legal
protection. This particular survey result i s consistent with the evidence showing that the
proportiono f sales paid incash as pre-payment (20-23 percent) in Serbia is significantly
higher than any other Eastern European country (Table 2).

32.       As a result o fthe inefficient system of dispute resolution, most enterprises require
advance payment before delivery. Evidence suggests that the percentage of firms using
pre-payment (65-70 percent) i s higher than in any other country in the region (Table 2).
Pre-paid transacting, in turn, thwarts the dynamism of the market and slows down the
expansion ofbusiness.

Table 2: Prepayments
                            Average share of salespaid inadvance           Share of the firms that use pre-
                                     by clients inpercent                              payment
 Bulgaria                                    6.47                                       30.8
 Croatia                                     6.63                                       49.5
 FYROM                                       9.27                                       41.5
 Slovenia                                    8.10                                       49.5
 Poland                                      4.99                                       38.7
 Romania                                     5.77                                       42.7
 Serbia PICS 1                               23.7                                       72.2
 Serbia BEEPS 2                              22.9                                       69.8
 Serbia PICS2                                20.0                                       66.1
Source: Productivity and InvestmentClimateSurvey(PICS) 2001 and 2003 for Serbia; Business Environment and
EnterprisePerformanceSurvey(BEEPS) 2002 for other countries.


33.       The Cost o f Doing Business exercise also indicates that Serbia is lagging
significantly behind other countries in the area of contract enforcement: it would take
almost three years (1,028              calendar days),       and 40 steps to bring a relatively
straightforward lawsuit to an end in Serbia." As can be seen from Table 3, Serbia has far
more procedures than any other country inthe region, and is amongthe 10 countries with
the highest number ofprocedural steps worldwide.

34.       The previous Law on Execution Procedures was enacted in June 2000 with the
objective to improve the collection capacity of banks and other creditors as an incentive
to increase lending andto reverse the traditional bias infavor ofdebtors. Major problems,
however, remain: there is no procedure for the examination of a judgment and no
requirement for the debtor to disclose assets to facilitate execution.16 In addition, as was

"The methodology was developed in Djankov, Simeon, Rafael La Porta, Florencio Lopez-de-Silanes, and Andrei
Shleifer, (2003) "Courts" Quarterly Joumal of Economics, 453-517. It assumes a hypothetical transaction, where a
client renegeson thepaymentof afulfilled contract, amountingto 50 percent of country's GNI per capita.
I6TheWorld Bank, "FR Yugoslavia- Legal and JudicialDiagnostic" (2002).



                                                      11

demonstrated in several studies," even creditors who have fought their way through the
execution procedure are not sure to collect or otherwise enforce the judgment in their
favor. The enforcement o fjudgments i s made difficult by the inaction and inefficiency o f
the courts' bailiffs and lack of support from the authorities.

Table 3: EnforcingContract Indicators
                              Number of          Duration              Cost (% GNIper capita)            Procedural
                              procedures         (days)                                                  Complexity Index"
 Bulgaria                         26                  410                                6.4                        69
  Croatia                         20                  330                                6.6                        50
 Macedonia FYR                    27                  509                              43.0                         67
 Poland                            18               1,000                              11.2                         65
  Germany                         26                  154                                6.0                        61
 Romania                          28                  225                              13.1                         60
  Serbia                          40                1,028                              20.0                         61
  Indexofthe proceduralcomplexityofcontract enforcementmeasuressubstantiveandproceduralstatutoryinterventionincivil cases
in the courts, and is formed by averaging the following sub-indices: use of professionals, nature of actions (written or oral), legal
justification, statutoryregulationof evidence, controlof superior review and other statutory interventions.The index varies Erom0 to
100,with highervalues indicatingmoreproceduralcomplexityin enforcinga contract.
Source: The World Bank"Doing Businessin 2004- UnderstandingRegulation".


35.         In order to address the noted problems, the Government, in consultation with
numerous stakeholders, prepared a new Law on Execution Procedures. After a public
consultation process, the new Law was adopted by the Government in October 2004 and
was subsequently enacted by the Parliament o f Serbia in November 2004. The most
important improvements of the new Law can be summarized as follows:"


       0    The law introduces new system of protective measures, including the new types
            o f injunctions, especially in commercial matters that will strengthen the position
            o fthe creditor.

       0    The new law contains a summary enforcement procedure in commercial matters
            andalso introduces a specialregulationfor enforcement incommercialmatters,

       0    The new law introduces significant changes in legal remedies (introduction of
            appeals, precise definition o freasons for both legal remedies and short time limits
            providedfor decisions on legalremedies).

       0    The law contains the possibility to postpone enforcement but only for narrowly
            enumerated reasons.

       0    The new law also has newprovisionsto (i) with enforcement against chattels
                                                                           deal
            and real estate for compensation of money claims; (ii) the role o fpublic          regulate
            registries (real estate, lien on chattels, securities, etc.); (iii)                     deal with delivery and
            court imposed time limits; and (iv) provide a clearer regulationo f the position and
            responsibilities o f court officials (bailiffs).


36.         Successfulimplementation o f the new law will depend upon other reforms inthis
area including reform of the courts. USAID i s providing a major multi-year program of

"Foreign InvestorsCouncil White Book (2003).
"Center for Liberal-Democratic Studies (CLDS) "New Law on Enforcement Procedure" (2004).



                                                                 12

assistance oJS$12.8 million) that will focus on the reform of the Commercial Court
system."       Commercial Courts are in charge o f enforcement o f not only the Enterprise
Law andthe L a w on Execution Procedures, but also the Law on Bankruptcy.

37.       Regulatory Impact Analysis. Available surveys (e.g., the ICA survey and FIAS
Administrative Barriers Study) show that the regulatory burden is one of the key
constraints to long-run growth and competitiveness in Serbia. Excessive regulation can
lead to lower investment and innovation, more corruption and informality, less formal
entry, and reduced income and employment growth. The burden firms face incomplying
with regulations, the quality o f the services provided by these regulations and the extent
to which corruption is associated with the procurement of such services affect firms'
productive activities.

38.       The network of government bodies with control hnctions in Serbia is complex,
and their responsibilities are often vaguely defined and overlapping. In addition,
pervasive and conhsing business regulations impose high costs on formal businesses. A
highdegree of inconsistency inthe application ofthe rules, strong discretionary powers
ofpublic servants inmakingdecisions on minor issues that affect the issuance of permits,
licenses and certificates emerge as key factors adversely affecting the business
environment.

39.       To improve the quality of regulatory environment and reduce the cost of doing
business, the Government will introduce a Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) program-
a practice widely utilized by OECD (Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development) countries.*' Although the central Secretariat for Legislation-established
by the Republic Law on Ministries-reviews                 all laws and Government decrees to ensure
consistency with the constitution, with other laws, and with drafting standards, there is no
corresponding reviewfor economic, business, or SME impacts.

40.       To implement the RIA, the Government will adopt amendments to the Rules of
Operation of the Government, which will provide that for each new law, and other
regulatory instruments such as decrees and orders, the responsible ministry will prepare a
justification statement containing the OECD RIA recommendations. More specifically,
for each new law and other regulatory instrument such as decrees and orders, the
responsible ministry will be required to prepare a justification statement which will
answer the key relevant questions. To this end, the Government has prepared
amendments to the Rules of Operation of the Government and identified the entity (the


l9The USAID project is athree years effort to providetechnical assistanceto improvethe efficiency and reliability of
mechanisms for resolving commercialdisputes. The project introducesstandards consistent with EU and intemational
standards andthe needs of moderneconomy.The projectaims at strengtheninginstitutionsand improving the operation
of the courts by (i)introducing performance measuresand statistics (ii)
                                                                      establishingspecial operationalproceduresfor
eachcourt; (iii)modemizingthe ITnetwork for case tracking; (iv) supportingJudicial Training Center andprovision of
individual professionaldevelopment and training; and intemal and external outreach programs to explain the courts to
the public andto ensure communicationwithin the court system; and supporting legalregulatoryreform by drafting of
laws, regulationsand court rules.
2o Although only a few OECD countries were using RIA in     1980, by 1996, more than half of OECD countries had
adopted RIA programs. By October 2000, 14 out of 28 OECD countries had adopted universal RIA programs, and
another six were usingRIA for some regulations.



                                                        13

Regulatory Reform Council) that will carry out RIA. The amendments were adopted by
the government in October 2004, which will be followed by a proposal for a plan of a
training programonpreparation ofthe RIA Justification Statement.

41.        Medium-term Reform Objectives. The adoption o f the Company Law and Law
on Execution Procedures, together with the Business Registration Law in May 2004 and
the Bankruptcy Law in July 2004 under PFSAC 2, should lay the foundations for an
improved entry and exit regime in Serbia. These measures, however, are necessary but
insufficient as un-restructured socially owned enterprises hinder entry o f SMEs, crowd
out their access to credit, and block competition in their sectors due to their political
power. Addressing these obstacles will require (i)                       continuation with the tender and
auction privatization; (ii)         acceleration o f the resolution o f remaining companies in the
restructuring program and readiness to exercise the companies' public debt restructuring
(iii)sale of minority state stakes; (iv) movement of the unsaleable loss-making
conglomerates or parts to bankruptcy procedure. The new Law on Execution Procedures
Law will facilitate foreclosure and enforcement, thereby leading to more initiations o f
bankruptcy.

42.        The enactment of the new Law on ExecutionProcedureswill needto be followed
bypolicy efforts directed at (i)         strengthening the performance o fbailiffs;21 (ii)              improving
court resources; (iii)        improving information sharing systems; (iii)                 developing and using
court statistics in an effective manner;22 (iv) removal o f non-dispute cases from the
courts.

43.        Efforts to improve the regulatory framework for enterprises-in                               which the
introduction and use o f RIA will play an important role-will                            need be followed and
supported by (i)        improvements in the inspections system; (ii)                adoption o f EU standards
 for the national system for accreditation and certification; and (iii)                    introduction o f public
consultation on new laws as a rule, not as an exception.


B. Energy Sector: Institutional Development and Performance Improvement

 Context

44.        Power outages in the winter o f 2000-1 constrained economic growth. Although
outages have been less of a problem in the intervening years, power balance is by no
means guaranteed. Power imports were required in the winter of 2003-04 following low
rainfall in the preceding summer. The system will become increasingly strained as
demandgrows, and further tariffincreases will be required to rationexistingcapacity and



~




21 In this respect, education ofjudges should be a priority. As the new legislation will broaden the competencesof the
commercial courts their enforcement benches should undergo additional training. In addition, the state of the Serbian
court system is such that urgent resources for training of judges and court personnel in the area of case filing and
trackingsystems, etc. are needed.
22 Empirical data are necessaryto identify bottlenecks in court performanceand give policymakersinformation where
reforms are neededmost.This would improvecourt administrationandcase managementsystems.



                                                           14

to finance investments/imports. From a social perspective, energy poverty is likely to
remainan important policy issue inSerbia as power tariffs are further increased.

45.     The power sector has been a fiscal liability given historically low tariffs, and will
remain so unless tariffs are set at cost recovery levels on a sustained basis. Power tariff
reform was a key challenge when the Bank resumed work in Serbia several years ago.
Tariff increaseswould improve the financial viability of the power industry, reducingthe
need for fiscal support, and improving power balance through providing adequate cash
flow for urgent investments and imports. Much progress has been made in the past 30
months. Average (residentialkommerciallindustrial) power tariffs have been increased
from USD0.9 c / kWhinJanuary 2001 to 3.7 c / kWhinJuly 2003. A further 10percent
increase has taken place inJuly 2004. Tariffs now cover operating costs plus debt service
and self-finance components of the investment program, though further increases are
likely to be neededto finance investments inthe medium term.

46.     Inorder to buildonthe recentprogressalready madeintariffreform, international
experience points to the benefits o f developing an independent regulatory framework;
this should ensure that tariffs continue to cover costs on a sustainable basis. Serbia has
made limited progress in developing an independent regulatory framework. Given these
circumstances, power industry financial viability remains precarious because tariff-
settingdecisions maybe subject to political considerations.

47.     Inaddition, as is the case inother countries, power tariffreform is likely to have
adverse affordability impacts on vulnerable groups in Serbia. Until recently, protection
was offered inthe form o f several targeted subsidies, together with a block tariff system
under which the first 600 kWh of power consumption per month were charged at a
discounted rate. Although this may have protected poor groups using electric space
heating, it was a poorly targeted subsidy.

48.     Finally, power industrycommercialization is important both from macroeconomic
and affordability perspectives. An industry operating commerciallywill supply power at
a lower price, thus supporting competitiveness o f industrial consumers. Lower prices will
also benefit residential consumers and ease affordability constraints. EPS-the      vertically
integrated power utility in Serbia-has        made some progress in commercialization
through spinning off o f non-core assets, most notably underground coal mines, and
reducing the level of barter payments. Much remains to be done, however, if EPS i s to
provide competitively priced power to its customers, with key challenges outstanding in
the areas o f accounting standards, core and non-core restructuring, and payments
discipline.

49.     Under the Athens Memorandum, signed by SaA4 together with other countries in
South East Europe, a regional energy market-the Energy Community o f South East
Europe (ECSEE)-will        begin operation from 2005. Tariff reform and industry
commercialization are priorities ifSerbia i s to benefit from participationinthe ECSEE.




                                             15

ReformObjectives and SAC Measures

50.     The energy sector reform objectives under SAC 2 are threefold (i)       improving
financial and operational (security of supply) sustainability of the power sector on a
stand alone (off budget) basis; (ii)     supporting industry commercialization; and (iii)
ensuring that risks associated withpotential adverse affordability impacts are mitigated.
These goals are fully consistent with the core objectives for the operation to promote
economic growth and strengthening fiscal discipline, while ensuring that the poor are
adequately protected.

51.     Realization o f these objectives would ensue through tarifflregulatory reform,
together with power industry commercialization. Enactment o f the Energy Law-
consistent with the best practice for ECSEE in July 2004-is        expected to unlock all
aspects of the reform process, particularly as regards regulatory development, tariff
reform, EPS restructuring, and energy market liberalization. This, together with adoption
of a supporting strategy explaining the vision behindthe law, constitutes one o f the key
ingredients of the energy sector reform agenda and a prerequisite for benefiting from
participationinthe ECSEE.

52.     Improving financial and operational sustainability. In order to maintain
financial/ operational sustainability in the short term, the Government will ensure that
tariffs cover operating costs plusthe self financed components o f the investment program
and debt service through 2004 and thereafter. These cost categories are not expected to
increase in real terms in 2004, thus a tariff increase to offset inflation in 2004 should
allow ongoing cost recovery. With this objective in mind, the authorities increased tariff
level to maintain an approximately constant real tariff in July 2004 relative to 2003.
Concurrently, the Government reformed the existing tariff structure by reducing the first
block tariff to 350 kWh-a    level that would be closer to regional standards (e.g. the first
block i s 250 kWhinBulgaria, and 80 kWhinRomania).

 53.    The Government recognizes the importance o fthe development o f an independent
regulatory framework for longer-term financial/operational sustainability, which will be
 supported by the adoption o f the newEnergy Law. The new law contains specific articles
relatingto institutional aspectso f the regulatory framework (e.g. the regulatory body will
be governed by a commission comprising members with fixed term appointments)
together with broad regulatory rules (e.g. tariffs will be set to cover costs). Following
passage o f the law, an independentregulator should be established, with appointment o f
keypersonnel and adoption ofa charter.

 54.    Supporting industry commercialization. The Government will continue to press
 ahead its efforts to maintaidimprove payments discipline. The bulk o f non payment
 stems from state-owned large industrial-rather        than residential or commercial-
consumers: collections from industrial consumers averaged 84 percent for the first six
months o f2004, relative to 92 percent for residential consumers.




                                              16

55.     In order to increase collections from industrial consumers, political will is
required, particularly where enforcement o f payments discipline requires disconnection.
Evidence from elsewhereinthe region suggeststhat payments problems o f this nature are
best tackled through restructuring and privatization o f large industry. Guided by this
principle, the Govemment has offered four o f the largest 15 debtors to EPS for
privatizationand sold two ofthem or viable parts thereof.

56.     In addition, the authorities took corrective measures with a view to maintain
residential collections-defined   as cash collected divided by invoices-for  the first six
months o f2004 at or above the level for the corresponding periodin2003. Thereafter, the
six-month rolling average will be at least as high as the corresponding period in the
previous year.

57.     Recognizing that commercial losses are a problem, EPS and the Ministry o f
Miningand Energyhave worked together to develop an Integrated Operative Program
for the Reduction of Nun-Technical Losses. The Government will implement this
program through establishment of expert teams and identification o f areas within the
network where commercial losses are high.

58.     On other aspects of EPS' commercialization, the key reform as regards
performance improvement i s industry unbundling; separation of generation, transmission
and distributionprovides a goodbasis for strengthening o fmanagementincentives and-
further inthe hture-industry liberalization. The enactment ofthe EnergyLaw will pave
the pathfor the industry unbundlingprocess.

59.     InNovember 2004, the Government has adopted a decision on EPS restructuring
consistent with requirements under the Athens Memorandum establishing the ECSEE
(which largely mirrors the revised EC Power Directive). In this respect, the decision
requires that EPS is unbundled through separation o f generation, transmission and
distribution, andthat transmission is established as a separately owned and operated legal
entity (or entities). EPS unbundlingwill be supported further through the introduction o f
transfer prices between generatiodtransmission and distribution companies. The
Government recognizes that transfer prices are a necessary condition for industry
unbundling, andcanhelpto strengthenmanagement incentives.

60.     Inview of the relatively low labor productivity in EPS, reduction of the labor
force constitutes one o f the key components o f the overall restructuring efforts.
According to EPS' estimates, a 30-35 percent reduction in labor i s required for efficient
performance. It i s likely that radical labor restructuring will take place after EPS
unbundling (following which management incentives will be strengthened). In the
meantime, the Government will support efforts to improve labor productivity through
maintenance o f a net hiring freeze which, given that there will be staff leaving EPS,
should result ina reduced labor force.

61.     Inadditionto core restructuring, there is aneedto spinoffnon-core companies as
part of the EPS' commercialization process. This process has started with spin off of



                                             17

underground mines from EPS. The next step is to consolidate this spin o f f through
underground coal mine restructuring, separating the industry into viable and non viable,
developing business plans for the former, and labor restructuring plans/social programs
for the latter. To this end, the Government will draft an underground mine restructuring
plan.

62.      EPS currently still owns a number of other non core companies which should be
spun off as part of the commercialization process; this will remove any current cross
subsidies, and strengthen management incentives in the non core companies. EPS has
established an additional twelve companies and transferred ownership of eight existing
non-core companies to the Ministry o f Miningand Energy.

63.      Medium-term Reform Objectives. The reforms described above are important
near-term steps in a longer-term program with the ultimate objective o f attaining a
financially  sustainable and operationally efficient power industry. Future policy efforts
need to focus on the further development of a modem regulatory framework that allows
for cost recovery, while providing incentives for EPS (or its successor companies) to
perform efficiently in comparison with other participants inthe evolving regional energy
market. Such methodologies should support ongoing security of supply (outages in line
with Union for the Co-ordination o f Transmission of Electricity norms) as well as
competitively priced power when compared to other countries in SEE.

64.      Onthe payment side, recently improved performance inraising collections needs
to be further deepened to achieve collections in the range 95-98 percent by the end of
2007. Improving payments performance in this manner would allow EPS to be
financially     viable   on    an    ongoing     basis  without     unduly   high and
uncompetitive/unaffordable power prices.

65.      EPS restructuring is expected to take place through 2005. More specifically,
transmission should be taken out of EPS and established as a separate Government-
owned entity. Generation and distribution should be legally and functionally separated,
possibly within a holding company structure under the terms of the agreement
establishing the regional energy market and the related EC directive. The presence o f a
competitive power price in Serbia incomparison with other countries participating inthe
regional energy market will constitute an importantindicator of improved performance of
the power sector.


C. Strengthening Social Protection

Context

66.       Since the inception o f the reform program, the Government has undertaken
critical and systemic social sector reforms, including pension reforms, targeting of child
benefits, and the introduction of programs to assist employment restructuring.        The
current system, however, remains limited in its ability to cover the poor-primarily




                                             18

because of fiscal constraints, but also due to issues related to the design of benefit
programs and ineffective social services.

67.      The recent joint Poverty Assessment finds that absolute material poverty affects
every tenth person in Serbia.23 At the same time vulnerability-or exposure to negative
shocks and inability to cope with them-threatens                        every fourth currently non-poor
individual. Even though some o f Serbia's cash benefit programs are among the best-
targeted programs in the region, the social protection system as a whole suffered from
large exclusion errors. A s a consequence, addressing these gaps has been one of the
Government's priority objectives.

68.      Concurrently, the Government aims at alleviating the adverse consequences of its
efforts to strengthen incentives for energy efficiency. A s was discussed previously, power
tariffs will continue to increase in the future. In this situation, it is important to
understand related adverse affordability impacts on the poor, and to mitigate these to the
extent possible.

69.      Inan attempt to assess whether power affordability is a problem, an analysis of
the Serbian Survey of Living Standards (SLS) was carried out. SLS data shows that rising
real incomes and energy savings induced by increasing tariffs have helped to preserve
power affordability for the average household. On the other hand, the poor have suffered
a significant increase power bills relative to income, particularly those poor using power
for heating, thought to number around 80,000. The SLS found that poor consumers using
power for heat spent more than 10 percent of their cash income on energy. Amongst the
poor, the SLS identifies particularly vulnerable groups-single                             farmer pensioners,
families relying on social transfers, unemployed-where                      affordability ratios are well in
excess o f critical thresholds.

70.      While it is estimated that substantial 45,000 households receive electricity
discounts/energy related cash transfers in Serbia, only 10 percent of beneficiaries were
poor. The leakage to the non-poor was substantial, while most poor were excluded,
thereby leavingmanypoor without anyprotection against price increases. 24,25




23 Serbiaand Montenegro:Poverty Assessment, World     Bank(2003).
24 Currently,the following targeted subsidiesare inplacefor powerheating:
              30 percent Relief for MOP (Material Support to Families program) recipients on bill up to 450
              kWhimonth: households eligible to receive MOP are granted a 30 percent reduction on active energy
              payments, up to a limit of 450 kWh per month (i.e., up to a limit o f8 per month) and are also eligible
              for a30 percent reductioninthe fixed monthly charge(i.e., $60per month);
              100percent Relief of Fixed Monthly Chargeto consumerswho are either recipients of ChildAllowance,
              or whose householdincome is less than 6,000 YUD, and whose consumption is less than 70-300 kWh
              per month. These consumers are eligible for 100 percent relief of the fixed monthly charge (2) for the
              periodJuly-September 2003; and
              An Electricity Heating Subsidy has been employed as a form of ad-hoc electricity social protection in
              past years. In the 2002 heating season, the Serbian Government introduced a subsidy for vulnerable
              consumerswho were dependent on electricity for heating. To receive the basic CSD400-600per month
              subsidy (around6-8), recipientshadto fulfill several well-designedbut fairly stringentcriteria. Only
              5,000 households in Serbia (0.02 percent of the total) were granted this subsidy in 2002, largely due to
              financing constraints.



                                                         19

Reform objectives and SAC Measures

71.        Inlight of the above discussion, the findings of the recent Poverty Assessment,
andthe PRSP, the following issues emerge as priorities (i)                    enhancing effectiveness of the
safety net through expanded coverage, greater adequacy of benefits and improved
targeting; (ii)      mitigating the adverse impact of changes in the level and structure of
electricity tar#s on thepoor; (iii)            strengthening coordination between social protection
programs and energy-related subsidies; and (iv) improving the monitoring of social
impact to achieve better targeting and efficiency.

72.        Improving effectiveness of the safety net. The main social assistance benefits
provided by M O S A are family benefits (child allowances, maternity leave, birth grants)
andthe Material Support to Families program(MOP). MOP is the main social assistance
benefit targeted to poor households. Its effectiveness is limited by insufficient financing
and low coverage ofthe poor.

73.        According to the poverty assessment and the PRSP, the MOP benefit is well
targeted. Although 2002 data shows that nearly 70 percent of the benefit i s received by
poor households, the MOP suffers from low coverage. In2002, only 0.09 percent of GDP
was spent on MOPbenefits and only 4 percent o fthe poor received benefits. This level of
spending and coverage is low incomparison with other countries inthe region.26327

74.        In order to address the noted problems, the government passed a revised Social
Welfare L a w on July 23,2004 which was supported by the SOSAC operation. The main
changes under the new L a w include (i)              a uniform national eligibility threshold for MOP;
(ii) benefitstothecostofliving;and(iii)
     indexing                                                       increasing benefit levels for MOP and
the caregivers' allowance to at least one-half ofthe poverty line.

75.        Analysis carried out for the PRSP28found that adjustments to the benefit formula
taking into account economies o f scale would increase the number of beneficiaries by
about 11percent. This would require the increase of expenditures by about 25 percent.
Combiningthe change inthe benefit formula with raising the eligibility threshold by 20
percent to fix it at the level at least one-half ofthe poverty line for equivalent adult would
require approximately doublingthe MOP expenditure to 0.2 percent of GDP.




25 Given   the confluence between those in energy poverty and those receiving MOPichild benefit, strengtheningthe
latter, coupledwith the expansion of existing sector safety net, and providing better information about the availability
of energy benefits, would helpimproveenergyaffordability for the poor.
26 Social assistance expenditures in Bulgaria in 2000 were 1.1 percent of GDP; 0.9 percent in the Czech Republic in
1997; 0.4 percent inPolandin 1999; and 1.2-1.4 percent in Slovakiain 1999(Murthi, 2001).
27 The MOP i s also plagued by problemsin benefit design, which limit its adequacy and effectiveness. Decentralized
eligibility thresholds, based upon the average municipal wage, lead to low benefit levels and coverage rates in poorer
areas. In 2001 and 2002 the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) addressed this through temporary measures by
''
 roviding additionalbenefitsfor households, which fall betweenthe Republicanand municipal averagewage levels.
    BogiCeviC B., G. KrstiC, B. MijatoviC and B. MilanoviC. (2003) SiromaStvo i Reforma Finansijske Podrske
SiromaSnima(Poverty and Reform of the Financial Assistance to the Poor). Belgrade: Center for Liberal-Democratic
Studies and Ministry for SocialAffairs, 2003.



                                                         20

76.        The previous allocation of resources for MOP program did not take into account
the policy changes included inthe amendments, which will lead to greater coverage (an
additional 13,000 families) and increasedbenefit levels.29According to the dataprovided
by the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Policy (MLESP), an additional
CSD330 million (4.7 million euros) will be necessary for the full implementation of the
Social Welfare Law in the last quarter of 2004. Approximately two thirds of these
additional funds would go to new MOP beneficiaries, while the rest would cover the cost
o f increasedcaregivers' allowances.

77.        To ensure the full implementation o f the Social Welfare Law upon its
effectiveness in September 2004, the Government has made adequate provisions in the
budget for the remaining period o f 2004, and remains committedto do so thereafter.30

78.        Mitigating the affordability impacts of the reform measures in the energy
sector. The Government is determined to take targeted measures to alleviate the adverse
consequences of reducing the first block in the block tariff structure from 600 kWh to
350 kWhper month for poor groups. Simulation results indicate that reduction of the first
tariff block would increase bills for the poor using power for heat no more than 10
percent. Analysis basedon household budget data and a sjmulation exercise suggest that
around 80,000 poor households rely on power for heating and that among this group, the
most vulnerable as regards change in the block tariff structure are single pensioners and
families with small children.

79.        Inpractice, it will be difficult to identify all 80,000 poor households usingpower
for heating. The analysis carried out by the background paper on Poverty and Social
Impact Analysis of energy tariff reform, however, suggests that a significant proportion
of the affected households receive either (existing and reformed) MOP, (reformed) child
allowance, or minimumpension. This, inturn, provides a rationale for the noted discount
schemeto be extendedto recipients o fMOP, child allowance, andminimumpension.

80.        Inorder to protect these groups inthe face of the change inthe first block, the
Government has introduced a new mitigation scheme to support the poor and vulnerable
population, whereby recipients o f child benefit, minimum pension and MOP are entitled
to a discount of no less than 30 percent o f the monthly bill on consumption up to 300
km.3L32



*' The delay in passage of the legislation created problems in the financing of MOP for 2004. Since the amendments
were not passeduntilJuly 2004, the 2004BudgetLaw has allocatedfinancing for MOP based on actual expendituresin
2003. The funds allocated for the MOP program 2004 at around 1.8 billion dinars will be sufficient to cover
approximately43,000 householdsin Serbia.
30 In addition, MLESP has reached an agreement with the Intemational Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) for the
inclusion of up to 6,000 of the most vulnerable IDP households into the MOP, provided that these families meet the
necessary eligibility criteria. It is expectedthat by the end of 2004, the MOP programwill cover around 60,000 families
in total. This is in line with the overall reformgoals andpolicy recommendationson improved coverageand increase in
social assistance spending.
3' In view of the tight fiscal situation in Serbia, the envisageddiscount scheme will be financed from EPS' cash flows,
at least for an interim period. In this respect, financial analyses on the operationalifinancia1 viability of EPS
incorporatedthe proposed discounts when calculatingthe residual tariff increase for EPS (i.e., the increase required
after the change inthe block tariff structureto makethe target 10percent overall increase).



                                                             21

81.      As part o f the Government's efforts to the efficiency o f social protection, a
working group consisting of representatives fi-om MoME, MLESP, and EPS was
established. The main objective of the working group will be to improve coordination
between social protection programs and energy related subsidies to ensure that the new
energymitigation schemeis carried out inan effective manner.

82.      Improved monitoring of the social impact of reforms will play an important
role in enhancing efficiency o f social protection through better targeting o f both existing
and proposed programs. Although the reformed Household Budget Survey (HBS) was
revised to address most o f the relevant issues in PRSP monitoring, there is a need to
officially entrust the Republican Statistical Office (RSO) with this work, which needs to
be accompanied with aprogram o ftechnical assistance.

83.      To this end, the proposed operation will support the authorities' reform efforts by
ensuringthe use of the most recent householdbudget survey data to assess the dynamics
of living standards for the population as a whole and for the most vulnerable groups. At
the initial stage, poverty monitoring will be supported by technical assistance activities
under the on-going Programmatic Poverty Assessment with a view to put in place a
mechanism for periodic updatesof such monitoringby the RSO.

84.      Medium-term Reform Objectives. The reforms described above represent
important steps towards the objectives laid out in the Serbia PRSP. The increased
coverage o f MOP and regularization o f benefit payments will need to be followed by
further policy measures aimed at improving the targeting of other social programs and
extending the coverage o fthe poor through child allowances and better protection against
poverty o fthe elderlythrough the pension system.

85.      Regular monitoring and updates on poverty situation constitute critical elements
o f policy efforts directed at improving the coverage and efficiency o f social protection
programs. In this respect, the envisaged involvement o f the RSO in the poverty
monitoring will need to be complemented by institutional mechanisms that utilize
poverty data in designing economic and social policies and by timely revisions o f the
social programs. This will require further efforts in strengthening the capacity o f
institutions responsible for social policy design and implementation.


D.ImprovingPublicAdministration

Context

86.      A decade of isolation and political turmoil adversely affected key Serbian
Government institutions. The previous regime left Serbia with a legacy of politicized and
fragmented administration, ill-suited to performingthe framework-setting role that public
administrations are expected to play in modern democracies. The system o f public


32 Measures aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of    the safety net discussed previously will also buttress social
protection vis a vis energy affordability by raising the income of the poor and by increasing eligibility for power bill
discounts.



                                                           22

administration has suffered from weak institutional capacities of the ministries and
Government support structures, significant lack o f horizontal coordination mechanisms, a
lack o f alignment between policy priorities and staffing levels in individual institutions,
and an underpaid and under-qualified civil service, constantly facing the problem of a
`brain drain' bythe best experts.

87.     After the change o f regime in 2000, the new Govemment o f Serbia voiced its
interest in the reform and modernization of public administration. The Government
established the Civil Service Council (CSC) to designthe reformprocess, andthe Agency
for Public Administration and Development (APAD)to provide operational support to
public administration and civil service reform and development. At a later stage, the
Government established a Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self-Government
(MPALSG), with a key task of unification and coordination of the public sector reform
activities.

88.     However, despite numerous initiatives during the first three years o f democratic
transition, progress with public administration reform in Serbia has been slower than
desired. As a result, weak public administration capacity continues to pose a serious
threat to the effective implementation o f government policies. Two main causes for the
lack ofprogress inthisperiod are:

    0   A general lack of a concept o f the role o f the state in economic and social
        transformation, and hence a failure to define the strategy o f public administration
        reform.

    0   A lack ofcoordinationbetweenthe activities ofnumerous institutionsinvolved in
        public sector reform management. This greatly impeded the decision-making
        process in this area. In addition, a great number of sectoral donor projects were
        not mutually coordinated and failed to address the key issues o f public sector
        reform, such as overall restructuring o f the machinery or Government and
        buildingaprofessional civil service system.


89.      Growing difficulties in governance processes as well as problems o f post-federal
transition with the transfer o f the former federal competencies to the Republican level,
have triggered an urgent need to develop a holistic approach to public sector reform
issues. Furthermore, the current salary and incentive system i s opaque and inadequate,
providing few incentives to young qualified staff to stay in the administration, which
raises a serious issue o f sustainable capacity building of Serbian civil service. Donor
resources to hire specialists on an ad hoc basis, which have been used extensively to
design the substance o f economic and social sector reforms, are becoming increasingly
scarce, makingthe development o f indigenous capacities all the more urgent.

ReformObjectivesandSACMeasures

90.     Addressing the above highlighted issues requires a comprehensive approach to
reform, which presupposesthe existence o f a clear vision of the role o fthe Serbian public
administration in transitional social-economic processes to be formulated in a public



                                             23

administration reform strategy. There is also an urgent need to create new, effective
reform management structures, as the previous key public administration reform
stakeholders were not able to coordinate their activities effectively and push the reform
forward.

91.    Reform goals supported under the proposed operation aim at setting the stage for
the implementation o f a medium-term Public Administration Reform (PAR) agenda. The
proposed objectives should therefore not be seen in isolation, but rather as the start-up
conditions for the implementation o f a substantive medium-term reform agenda. In this
respect, the following three key sets o f actions elaborated below constitute immediate
policy priorities inthe PAR agenda.

92.    Formulation and adoption a PAR strategy and action plan. The complexity o f
the PAR agenda in Serbia is such that addressing individual elements in isolation is
unlikely to bringthe desired results. The improvement o f employment conditions o f civil
servants, for instance, can only be achieved ifthe size o f the Civil Service is reduced, as
reform measures will have to be largely fiscally neutral. Therefore, the design o f options
for pay reform needs to take into consideration the speed and direction o f planned
reforms in organizational structures in the state administration. The latter is again
dependent on decisions on the re-allocation o f functions between levels o f government.

93.    By the same token, efforts to buildcapacity inthe Civil Service through training
and staff development will only deliver results if the level o f politicization in senior
positions is reduced. Therefore, a comprehensive medium-term strategy and associated
.action plan is needed to ensure that different aspects o f the reform process are
implemented at the right time and in the right order. Furthermore, the existence o f a
broadly agreed reform strategy and action planwould help creating the conditions to keep
reforms on track inthe medium term.

94.    To this end, the MPALSG has prepared a Strategy covering the reform o f the
central state administration and reforms in the system of local self-government. The
Strategy also clarifies the firture direction o f reform, which i s to move service delivery
andregulatory management functions out o f the central ministries and vest them inlocal
authorities and public agencies respectively. This, in turn, will allow for a more client
oriented and efficient form o fpublic service delivery.

95.    After incorporating comments from various stakeholders, the Strategy and the
relatedAction Planwere first endorsed by the PAR council inOctober 2004, and adopted
bythe Government o f SerbiainNovember.

96.    The creation of effective PAR management structures is essential, as without
an effective horizontal management structure the design and adoption o f any significant
reforms will remain elusive. The design o f reform management structures should include
a clear allocation o f responsibility for reform policy design to an adequately staffed
reform secretariat, a clear assignment o f decision-making authority and o f responsibility
for monitoring reform implementation.



                                              24

97.     Significant progress has been made with the rationalization o f the previously
convoluted PAR management structures, which created severe blockages in the reform
process. The development and implementation of the PAR strategy has been assigned to
the MPALSG. Its capacity has been strengthened through an accelerated recruitment
effort by the new minister and by the integration of the former Agency for PA
Development in the structure of the Ministry. The drafting work on PAR legislation has
been taken over bythe Office for Legislation at the Government, which is buildingup the
technical capabilities to ensure that draft laws will have the appropriate quality. A small
group o f experts has been assigned with the responsibility for the drafting work.
Therefore, at the level of conceptual development and in relation to the legislative
agenda, a clear structure has been established, which has the appropriate resources to
manage the PARprocess.

98.     Furthermore, a specialized high-level political decision-making body on PAR
issues, including the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance,
the Minister of Public Administration and Local Self-Government and other key
ministers, was created in June 2004. This Council will be in charge of the political
consideration of strategy documents and draft legislation, among other things.

99.     The design of the reform of the civil service wage system. The reform of the
wage system is a key issue in terms o f determining the ability of the Civil Service to
attract qualified staff in the future, among other things. This requires a change from the
current convoluted system, based mainly on bonuses that bear no relation to merit and
performance, to a one that rewards excellence and provides more attractive career
opportunities, including increased protection against politically motivated staffing
changes at senior management and expert level. Furthermore, the reform of the
systematization process, which underpins the wage system, i s essential to re-allocate
resources in the public sector wage bill to those areas which most urgently need budget
funding, rather thanproviding for incremental year onyear changes.

100.    Designing a comprehensive reform of the wage system is a complex and time-
consuming process, which therefore has to be started urgently if a program for reform is
to be put inplace in a prompt manner as dictated bythe need to attain sustainable cuts in
non-interest current spending. To this end, a review ofthe Civil Service wage system was
carried out, which was supported by the World Bank, EAR and DFID (Box 2). The
purpose of the review was to highlight systemic weaknesses and propose options that
would leadto the creation of a merit andperformance basedremuneration system. Based
on the review, the MOF andM P A L S G have prepared a joint policy statement, which was
subsequently endorsed by the PAR Council, outliningthe direction of reforms in (i)       the
pay and grading system; (ii)   development of a performance appraisal system linked to the
salary system; (iii)  the systematization process; (iv) de-politization; and (v) integrating
staff development with career advancement.

 101.   Medium-term Reform Objectives. The reforms outlined above represent the
first steps in a very long reform program. The ultimate policy objective in this area is to
builda public administration system that meets European standards, which is at the same



                                              25

time competitive on the labor market and affordable in fiscal terms.                              The progress in
attaining this objective will be captured by a baseline assessment o f the Serbian civil
service in 3-4 years time, which should therefore be positive on three of the five
benchmarked areas33 (the EU-8 scored between three and four out of five on the last
assessment).

102.      A competitive civil service system requires a transparent salary system based on
performance. In this respect, the authorities are committed to implement a phased
increase in the compression ratio from the current level of 1:4.9, have a performance
allocation inthe salary budget that would allocate at least 5 percent of the total wage bill
based on performance assessment results, and raise management level salaries to at least
70 percent of private sector average wages (currently 60 percent). This would need to be
implemented ina fiscally affordable way with the objective to reduce the current ratio of
central government wages to GDP (around5 percent of GDP) ina sustainable manner.

Box 2: A Brief Overview of the Pay and Benefit System in the Serbian Civil Service

          A recent review ofthe civil service pay andbenefit systemunderscores the following priority
areas for action:
          A newpay and grading system which (i) ajob evaluation approach to define a structure o fjob
                                                        uses
grades that reflects differences inthe levels o fresponsibility, complexity, and outputs o f different job
levels; and (ii) has a salary range for eachjob level that provides different salaries to recognize different
levels o f individual experience andperformance at that job level.
          Development of aperformance appraisal system which (i) clear performance targets for every
                                                                           sets
staff member inline with the goals o f the State organ and its Sectors and Departments; (ii)         assesses
individual performance inrelation to those targets; and (iii)      i s supported by a system o fpay differences and
bonuses to reflect different levels o fperformance, and a training system to develop staff skills.
          Reform the systematization process to allocate budgetary resources to state organs based on a
realistic and objective analysis o f the functions and staffing requirements o f each state organ.
          De-politicization andprofessionalization of thesenior managementstructure, particularly at the
level o fHeado f Sector (Assistant Minister), to (i) that key senior management positions are filled
                                                         ensure
bylong-term career civil servants who can develop the longterm expertise and bctionalknowledge
relevant to their sector; and (ii)allow long-term stability inthe planning and execution o f the functions and
services o feach state organ.
          Develop a comprehensive training strategy and trainingfacilities to (i) basic training o f
                                                                                         provide
all civil servants to a common standard, thereby buildingthe skills necessary to deliver effective and
efficientpublic services; and (ii)provide continuous professional and management development o fcivil
servants throughout their careers.
          Clearly, action on the notedpriority areas will take time to achieve results. The development and
implementation o f the new pay and grading system, for example, would take 12- 18 months. Some actions
are therefore needed inthe short term to address critical problems inthe present system, inparticular (i)        the
generally low pay levels; (ii) lack of adequate pay progressionas a person moves up the rank system;
                                the
and (iii) the low pay levels for miasenior professionals and managers by comparison with market rates,
particularly inState organs other than the higher paying organisations.
          The review proposes policy options and suggests that a highlevel Steering Groupbe set up to
assessthese options inthe lighto fbudget constraints and make an appropriate recommendation to
government.
Source:Serbia Civil Service: Assessment of Pay and Benefits System (2004).



33 These areas include legal status o f civil servants, clear definition in Law of the level of responsibility and
accountability of public servants, degree of impartiality and integrity in the civil and public service, efficiency in
management of public servants and in control o f staffing, professionalismand stability of public servants.



                                                           26

     V. MEDIUM-TERMPROSPECTSAND FINANCINGREQUIREMENTS
103.     Following the economic slowdown in 2003 from arising fiom the unsatisfactory
performance in industry and agriculture, recorded real GDP is expected to grow about 5
percent average rate between 2004 and 2007-a                       level closer to the country's growth
potential. The envisaged growth trajectory is based on a strong private sector response
engendered by reforms to improve the business climate, accelerated privatization, andthe
permanent fiscal adjustment (see para 20).

104.     The envisaged fiscal adjustment, which relies on sustainable cuts in non-interest
current spending, will directly contribute to promoting growth and redressing
macroeconomic imbalances. More specifically, current expenditures (excluding interest
payments) in relation to GDP are projected to decline fiom roughly41 percent in2004 to
35.5 percent in 2007, reflecting reductions in the wage bill and subsidies as well as
transfers. Sustainable cuts innon-interest current spending will have a positive impact on
expectations about the future stance o f fiscal policy and thus lower the risk premium,
thereby paving the path for higher private investment.

Table 4: SaM- Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects
                                                     Act.     Act.    Act.      Est.   Proj.    Proj.    Proj.  Proj.
                                                     2000 2001       2002      2003    2004     2005     2006   2007
National Accounts

Real GDP growth(%)l/                                   5.0       5.5     4.0      3.0      6.0      4.6     4.8   5.0

Investment ("Ao f GDP)                                14.2     13.6     16.2     15.9     16.5     17.8    20.4  21.0

Gross Domestic Savings ("A o f GDP)                    -2.7      -7.2   -7.2      -6.6     -8.6     -7.3    -3.3  -1.3

Public SectorBalance /as % of GDP)

Expenditures                                          37.6     40.3     47.8     46.3     45.3     43.5    43.0  42.3
 o/w public investment                                 3.1       1.6     3.5       2.3     2.6       2.3    4.8   4.9
Revenue before grants                                 36.7     38.9     43.3     43.1     43.3     42.8    42.0  41.2
Deficit before grants                                  0.9       1.4     4.6       3.2     2.0       0.7     1.0   1.1

External Accounts (as % of GDP)

Exports of goods and services                         29.6     23.7     20.9     19.9     24.2     27.3    29.9  31.7
Imports o f goods and services                        46.5     44.6     44.3     42.4     49.4     52.4    53.5  54.0

Current account balance, (millions o f US$) 2/        -339     -528 -1,383 -1,960 -2,492 -2,372 -2,049 -1,861
Current account balance, as % of GDP 21                -3.9      -4.6    -8.9     -9.6    -10.7   -10.2     -8.7  -7.6

Indebtedness (external debt)

TDO/XGS 3/                                           307.1 266.2 219.6 205.9             143.8    125.2 113.8 105.8
TDO/GDP                                              133.2 103.2        76.5     69.9     57.8     56.4    54.4   52.6
TDS/XGS 3/                                             1.5       2.4     3.4       6.7    11.2     13.3    13.1   14.9

Prices

Retail price inflation (e.0.p.)                      113.5     39.0     14.2       7.6    12.6       9.6     5.7  4.1
11 GDP estimatesexclude Kosovo.; 21 After grants; 31 Exports include workers' remittances and factor incomes.



                                                       27

105.     By the same token, public investment, which has beennoticeably low inthe past,
i s expected to increase significantly during the projection period. The noted policy shift
should further enhance the country's growth prospects since this type o f activity i s likely
to boost the productivity ofthe private sector.

106.     The projected increaseinthe inflation rate in2004 (see para 14), is expectedto be
reversed in 2005 and thereafter. Greater confidence in the policy framework brought
about by, inter alia, the envisaged fiscal adjustment, which would also promoteexchange
rate stability, coupled with the implementation o f a prudent monetary policy would
provide the basis for the envisageddecline ininflationto 4 percent by 2007.

107.     The combination of the expected improvement in the public savings-investment
balance and the implementation o f structural reforms is expected to have a favorable
impact on the evolution o f the current account deficit. The envisaged reform measures
would enhance the country's competitiveness, thereby producing a relatively strong
export performance (projected export growth o f 13 percent period averagebetween 2005-
07, in dollar terms) during the same period. The net effect of these trends would reduce
the current account deficit (after grants) from 9.6 in2003 to 7.6 percent of GDP by 2007.
Moreover, sound policies and the improved confidence in the policy framework that
would foster growth and investment would also promote savings: gross domestic savings
as apercentage ofGDP would rise to -1.3 percent in2007 from -8.6 percent in2004.

Table 5: Financingrequirements(US$ millions)
                                             Act.     Est.    Proj.    Proj.    Proj.   Proj.
  Financingrequirements(US%,millions)          2002     2003    2004      2005    2006    2007


  FinancingRequirements(inclIMP)            2,242.0   3,085.7 3,071.8  3,348.5  3,061.0 3,288.3
    Current account deficit (after grants)   1,3 83.O 1,959.7 2,492.0  2,372.1  2,048.9 1,860.8
    Longtermamortizations (excl. IMF)           43.0    204.0   412.5    625.0    830.8 1077.5
    Reserves Changes of Monetary Auth.       1,111.0  1,270.0   173.3    424.3    141.5   239.5
    IMFCredit (net)                          -295.0   -348.0     -6.0     -73.0    39.8   110.5
  Financingsources                          2,242.0   3,085.7 3,071.8  3,348.5  3,061.0 3,288.3
    Private investment (net)                   562.0  1,395.0   966.0   1,181.0   988.4 1,034.9
    Long termDisbursements                     421.0    911.0 1,414.4   1,085.7 1,125.2 1,249.9
    Adjustments to scheduled debt service       32.0    121.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0
    Other capitalflows                       1,227.0    658.7   691.4   1,081.7   947.4 1,003.5


 108.    Financingneeds.Attainingthe above-describedmacroeconomic framework will
entail significant financing requirements, particularly in light o f the rising payments to
service SaM's foreign and public debt due mainly to the expiration of grace periods and
the need to begin servicing new borrowing. Between 2004 and 2007, gross extemal
financing requirements are projected at about US$12.8 billion (Table 5). These resources
are required to finance (i) but declining current account deficits (excluding grants
                                  large
and official transfers) amounting to roughly US$8.8 billion; (ii)an increase in
international reserves o f US$l billion; and (iii)    amortization o f extemal debt amounting
to US$3 billion. As a result o f the envisaged improvement in the fiscal balance during



                                                  28

the projectionperiod, these financing needs will shift from the public to the private sector
as the expected fiscal retrenchment will leave more room for the private sector to tap
domestic and foreign markets at favorable terms.

109.       Financingsources. The above noted financing requirements are envisaged to be
met from several sources. As a result o f the improved macroeconomic environment and
more credible policies, foreign direct investment i s estimated to finance around 33
percent o f total needs in the 2005-2007 period. Long-term loans from multilateral,
bilateral, and other creditors are projected to account for 35.7 percent o f total financing
requirements for the same period. The remaining amount will be covered by other capital
inflows, which include, short-term credits, capital not-elsewhere included and errors and
omissions.34The Bank program generally, and the proposed adjustment operation more
specifically, would represent an important share of this financing, and can therefore play
a crucial role in ensuring adequate financing for the reform programs in SaM and the
Republic o f Serbia.


                                     VI. THE PROPOSEDCREDIT
A. Rationaleand Objectives

 110. The proposed U S 4 5 million equivalent credit would support the Government
program outlined above, and in the attached Letter of Development Policy and Policy
Action Matrix. Specifically, the proposed operation aims at supporting the Government's
structural and institutional reform agenda infour policy areas (i)                    reforms of the business
enabling environment; (ii)           institutional development and improving pe$ormance in the
energy sector; (iii)strengthening social protection; and (iv) improving public
administration. These reforms, if successfully implemented, would place Serbia on a
sustainable growthpathand buttress macroeconomic stability, thereby allowing smoother
andfaster convergencetowards Europeanstructures.

B. Linksto the CountryAssistance Strategy

  111. The Serbia SAC 2 is includedinthe firstjoint Bank-IFC FY05-07 CAS for Serbia
and Montenegro, which is being presented to the Board in parallel with this Report.
Consistent with the overall economic objectives set in the Stabilization and Association
process (SAP) and the PRSP, the new CAS rests on three pillars (i)                          creating a smaller,
more sustainable, more efficient public sector; (ii)creating a larger, more dynamic,
private sector; and (iii)          lowering poverty rates, and improving social protection and
access to social services, particularly for poor and vulnerable populations. The proposed
SAC 2 supports continuation o f structural reforms initiated under the World Bank's
previous adjustment operations in Serbia (see paras 9 and 24) and represents a bridge
betweenthe Bank's earlier support andthe PALprograms envisaged inthe new CAS.

~~        ~




34 At around US$400million in 2002 and2003, the magnitudeof net errors andomissionsin SaM is indeedquite large.
This, in turn, reflectsthe combination of the following factors (i) undedover-invoicing of recordedtrade, unrecorded
trade; (ii)private flows that have not been assigned to remittances; (iii)
                                                                         measurement errors arising from Kosovo and
Montenegro;and (iv) remonetizationflows stemmingfrom previously unrecordedcash enteringthe banking system(as
occurredon alargescalewhen the DM/euro changeoverhappened).



                                                          29

112.    The reform measures included in the proposed SAC 2 will support the
Government's efforts in attaining policy goals outlined in the new CAS by enhancing
fiscal discipline, encouraging a strong private sector response as well as employment
creation, and setting the stage for deeper reforms aimed at improving public
administration. Measuresto be supportedunder the proposed operation are also essential
to strengthen social protection and to mitigate the adverse impact o f the energy sector
reformmeasureson the poor.


C. BoardConditionsandTrancheTriggers

113.    Serbia's reform program i s highlighted in Section I11above and in the Letter o f
Development Policy (Annex 4), and summarized inthe Policy Action Matrix (Annex 5).
Towards attaining the reform objectives, Serbia has implemented the key measures and
shown the key results in the second column (Actions before Board Presentation). The
Credit will be released in one tranche upon approval o f the Credit and Development
Credit Agreement effectiveness.


D.PovertyImplications

114.    As was described in Box 1, the coverage of the proposed operation is fully
consistent with the objectives laid out in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper. More specifically, the proposed operation will support immediate and longer-term
poverty reduction through several channels. First, implementation o f measures in the
energy sector and public administration reform components will help strengthen fiscal
discipline and reduce the risk o f shocks, which can adversely affect the living standards
of the poor. Second, a more secure supply o f energy together with reform measures
aimed at improving the business climate will create the basis for investments needed for
medium-term growth and employment creation, and thus for more sustained poverty
reduction. Third, ensuring the allocation o f funds necessary for the full implementation o f
the new Social Welfare Law will addressthe problem o f low-coverage andunder-funding
o f Serbia's well-targeted social assistancesprograms. Fourth, introduction o f the energy
mitigation scheme is expectedto alleviate social costs o f the reforms inthe energy sector
andsafeguardpeople who are already disadvantaged.


E.Coordinationwith theIMFandother Donors

115.    The IMF i s supporting Serbia's adjustment program through a three-year
Extended Arrangement in the amount o f SDR 650 million, initiated in May 2002. Both
the IMF and the Bank along with the donor community share the goals o f achieving a
credible fiscal adjustment and placing the Serbian economy on a sustainable growth path
through the implementation of structural reforms. During the preparation o f this
operation, Fund and Bank staff as well as the key donors-EU,        DFID, USAID, UNDP,
and SIDA in particular-cooperated closely to ensure consistency between stabilization
and structural adjustment measures.




                                              30

F.FinancialArrangements

116.    Credit Amount, Borrower/Beneficiary, Terms, Tranching. The proposed
Credit will be made to Serbia andMontenegro, represented by the union level Ministry of
International Economic Relations (MIER). The final beneficiary will be the Republic of
Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The Credit will be on modified IDA
terms, with a maturity o f 20 years, including a grace period of 10 years. The Credit will
be released in one tranche upon approval of the Credit and Development Credit
Agreement effectiveness. The MIER will open and maintain a special Deposit Account in
the National Bank o f Serbia (NBS) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. In December 2001, the N B S was subject to a full IMF Safeguards
Assessment. Following completion of the Assessment, a remedial action plan was
developed to address a number of weaknesses highlighted by the IMF team.
Implementation of the action planhas been monitored by the IMF.Upon notification the
Development Credit Agreement effectiveness and submission to IDA of a withdrawal
application, the proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by the Association into the
Deposit Account o f the Borrower. The Borrower will make available to Serbia in Dinar
to general budgetary account the equivalent ofthe proceeds ofthe Credit under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.

117.    The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for SaM, published in
December 2002, made a series o f recommendations for strengthening the public financial
management system. A number of these recommendations, e.g. the strengthening of the
MOF's Internal Audit function, have been supported under subsequent Bank-financed
operations.    Other recommendations, e.g.,      the establishment of a medium term
expenditure framework and the establishment of a Single Treasury Account
encompassing all ministries and direct spending units, were under implementation at the
time of the CFAA and have continued to progress in the subsequent period. A notable
omission has been the establishment of a Supreme Audit Institution (SAI), reporting
directly to Parliament.    An SA1 law had been drafted in 2003 but, as a result of
dissolution of parliament in December 2003, never made its way onto the legislative
agenda. The lack o f an SA1weakens the public financial management system. However,
other ex-ante and ex-post controls are considered sufficient to reduce financial risks to an
acceptable level. The SA1 initiative continues to be supported by the donor community
andis beingdiscussedwith the present government.

118.    Accounting, auditing, and closingdate. The NBS would maintain records o f all
transactions under the credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Although
routine audits o f the Deposit Accounts will not be required, the Association reserves the
right to require audits at any time. Insuch cases, the Borrower should hrnish and audit
report not later than six months after the date of the Association's request for such an
audit. The closing date of the Credit will be June 30,2005.

119.    Implementation, Monitoringand Supervision. Duringthe preparation of SAC
2, the Association has assisted the Government of Serbia in achieving the timely
implementation o f the agreed reforms. Through regular reviews, the Association will
monitor the general progress of the Republic of Serbia's reform program, and more


                                            31

specifically the implementation o f agreed benchmarks described in the Development
Credit Agreement and Letter o f Development Policy. This will require supervision
conductedjointly by staffo fthe Bank Office inBelgrade andheadquarters-based staff.

120.    Environmental impact. This credit focuses primarily on promoting sustainable
economic growth and no environmental issues are foreseen. In accordance with the
Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (Operational Directives
8.60), no environmental category rating isrequired.


G.Benefits and Risks

121. Benefits. The main benefits o f the proposed SAC 2 would be to support Serbia to
deepen the reform process necessary to place the country on a sustainable growth path
and move closer to European structures. To this end, the credit supports a coherent
programof structural and institutionalreforms encompassingfour policy areas, which are
inlinewiththe mainstrategicdirections ofthe PRSP (see para23 andBox 1). Successful
implementation o f these`policy measures would support the Government's efforts to (i)
enhance fiscal discipline; (ii)encourage a strong private sector response and employment
creation; (iii)
              set the stage for deeper reforms aimed at improving public administration;
(iv) address the problem of low-coverage and under-funding of Serbia's well-targeted
social assistance program; and (v) mitigate the adverse impact of the energy sector
reform measureson the poor.

122.    In sum, the proposed SAC 2 will help the Republic of Serbia formulate a
comprehensive structural reform agenda, which contains measureswith a large impact on
growth potential, within a consistent macroeconomic framework.

123.    Political Risks. The formation o f a fragile but functioning minority coalition in
early March 2004 ended two months o f political deadlock in Serbia following the
legislative elections on December 28, 2003. Serbian Presidential elections were
concluded in June 2004, bolstering stability. There remain a number o f issues to be
sorted out among ruling coalition partners and the party o f the newly elected President,
which has not joined the coalition. The challenges o f rulingas a minority coalition could
underminethe Government's cohesiveness and effectiveness, without which commitment
to reforms would diminishand the capacity for policy implementation would weaken.

124.    In addition, the durability of the SaM union, which may face a referendum in
2006, together with the final status o f Kosovo, and completion o f the EU's Stabilization
and Association process, which has stalled inthe run-upto the recent elections, emerge as
additional important political challenges.

125.    Nonetheless, Serbia's institutions have proven to be fairly resilient to adverse
shocks as was evidenced by their ability to weather the shock o f P M Zoran Djindjic's
assassinationin2003. Moreover, at the political level, since its 2001 return to democracy,
Serbia has completed a far-reaching constitutional transition and formed a workable




                                            32

union with Montenegro, and managed to form a viable goveming coalition through a
series of challenging elections.

126.    Macroeconomic Risks/External Shocks. The envisaged reforms in improving
public finances contain two main risks. First, the much-needed high quality fiscal
adjustment involvingdurable cuts in non-interest current spending-the     wage bill inthe
face of the demands for higher wages and subsidies as well as transfers in particular-
may be politically difficult to implement. Policy slippages in attaining the envisioned
fiscal adjustment could exert upwardpressures on the exchange and increase the use of
foreign currency both as a store of value and a medium of exchange. Given the large
share o f external debt in total public debt, this could severely undermine debt
sustainability and trigger a vicious circle of higher depreciation, higher inflation, and
higher public debt.    Second, were the progress on key reforms to be slower-than-
envisioned or to be reversed under social pressure, this could pose a serious threat to the
overall reform process as it would undermine efforts to address the underlying structural
causes of macroeconomic imbalances.

127.    In addition, Serbia's exports are concentrated in unskilled and natural resource
intensive products, which increases the economy's exposure to terms of trade shocks. A
severe deterioration o f terms of trade or lower-than-expected foreign investment flows
coupled with higher-than-expected oil prices might adversely affect economic activity
and macroeconomic stability.

128.    The potential benefits to be obtained through improvingthe political economy at a
critical stage of the reform process by providing the necessary budget support to
implement key structural reforms should mitigate the noted risks. More specifically, the
implementation of the reform measures included in the SAC 2 program will not only
support an improvement in private sector sentiment in Serbia, but also enhance
conditions for other donors to continue (and increase) their involvement in the reform
process-all  ofwhich shouldimprove the scenario for 2005 and thereafter.




                                            33

                                                                                                      Annex 1
                                                                                                  Page 1o f 2

                         Serbia and Montenegro - Key Economic Indicators


                                                     Actual        Estimate        Projecred
                 1ndicator                     2000   3001   2002   2003    2004  2005    2006  2007

National accounts (as YOof GDP)

Total Consumption                               102.7  107.2  107.2   106.6  108.6 107.3   103.3 101.3
Gross domestic fixed investment                  15.3   13.3   15.9    15.6   16.2  17.5   20.1   20.7
 Government investment                             3.1    1.6    3.6     2.2   2.6    2.3    4.6    4.7
 Private investment                              12.2   11.7   12.3    13.4   13.6  15.2    15.5  16.0


Exports (GNFS)b                                  29.6   23.7   20.9    19.9  24.2   27.3    29.9  31.7
Imports (GNFS)                                   46.5   44.6   44.3    42.4  49.4   52.4    53.5  54.0

Gross domestic savings                            -2.7   -7.2   -7.2    -6.6  -8.6   -7.3   -3.3   -1.3

Gross national savings'                          10.4     9.1    7.2     6.3   5.8    7.5   11.6  13.5

Memorandum item
GNIper capita (US$, Atlas method)               1,220  1,250  1,400   1,900  2,530 2,770   2,870 2,960

Real annual growth rates (YO,calculated from 1998prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices           5.0    5.5    4.0     3.0   6.0    4.6    4.8    5.0
 Gross Domestic Income                             5.1    5.5    4.0     3.1   6.0    5.0    4.8    5.0

Real annual per capita growth rates (YO,
calculated from 1998prices)
 Gross domestic product at marketprices            5.5    5.7    4.3     3.2   5.9    4.5    4.7    4.9
 Total consumption                                 5.2  13.1     7.8     8.7  10.7    2.3   -0.4    2.3
 Private consumption                             19.1   15.1     6.6     8.5  11.8    3.0    0.5    2.3

Balance of Payments (US%millions)
 Exports (GNFS)b                                2,547  2,743  3,241   4,069  5,623 6,326   7,028 7,808
   Merchandise FOB                              1,923  2,003  2,412   3,015  3,925 4,493   5,047 5,669

 Imports (GNFS)b                                4,004  5,160  6,857   8,675 11,463 12,138 12,591 13,303
   Merchandise FOB                              3,711  4,837  6,320   7,957 10,244 10,858 11,221 11,838
 Resource balance                              -1,457 -2,417 -3,616 -4,606 -5,840 -5,812 -5,563 -5,494
 Net current transfers                          1,119  1,915  2,344   2,895  3,745 3,970   3,942 4,072
 Current account balance                        -339    -528 -1,383 -1,960 -2,492 -2,372 -2,049 -1,861

 Net private foreign direct investment             25    165    562    1,395   966 1,181     988  1,035
 Long-termloans (net)                             213    299    378     697  1,059   867     724    706
 Other capital (net, incl. errors &ommissions)    328    587  1,554    1,138   640   748     478    360

 Change inreservesd                             -227    -523 -1,111 -1,270   -173   -424    -141  -239

Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)                       -17    -21    -23      -22   -25    -25    -24    -22




                                                             34

                                                                                                            Annex 1
                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2


                                                                                                          (Continued)

                              Serbia and Montenegro Key Economic Indicators
                                                                  -
                                                          (Continued)



                                                                         Aclual          Fstimate     Projected
                       Indicator                             2000      2001  2002  2000   2004   2005   2006   2007
                       Indicator


Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)e
 Current revenues                                               36.7    38.9   43.3 42.7     43.2 42.7    41.9   41.1
 Current expenditures                                           34.5    38.7   44.3 44.0     42.8 41.3    38.2   37.4
 Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)                      2.2     0.2   -1.1  -1.3     0.5   1.5    3.7    3.7
 Capital expenditure                                             3.1     1.6    3.5   2.3     2.6  2.3     4.8    4.9
 Foreignfinancing                                                0.0     0.0    1.8   1.2     0.9   1.1    1.0    1.0


Monetary indicators
 M2/GDP                                                          8.5     7.8   10.6  10.1     9.9   9.8   10.0    10.1
 Growth o fM2 ("A)                                                 ..   83.9   76.2  12.1    14.0  16.5   14.4    10.7


Price indices
 Consumer price index (% change, period average)                69.9    91.1   21.2  11.3     9.5  11.3    6.2     4.0
 GDP deflator (% change)                                        88.5    91.7   24.0  14.9     9.8  11.9    7.1     4.4


a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods andnon-factor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use ofIMFresources.
e. Consolidated general govemment.




                                                                     35

                                                                                                                    Annex 2
                                                                                                                Page 1of 1


                    Serbia and Montenegro Key ExposureIndicators
                                                        -

                                                        Actual           Eslintate                 Projected
                  Indicator                       2000 2001       2002     2003    2004      2005    2006   2007


Total debt outstanding and                      11,460 11,948 11,841 14,302 13,404 13,060 12,805 12,951

disbursed(TDO) (US$m)"


Net disbursements(US$m)a                           353     502        832   1,111   1,188     1,090     812    695


Total debt service (TDS)                            56     107        184    463    1,047     1,387   1,477   1,819

(US$m)"


Debtanddebt serviceindicators (%)
  TDO/XGS~                                       307.1    266.2    219.6    205.9   143.8     125.2   113.8   105.8

  TDOiGDP                                         133.2   103.2      76.5    69.9    57.8      56.4    54.4    52.6

  TDS/XGS                                           1.5     2.4       3.4     6.7     11.2     13.3     13.1   14.9

  Concessional/TDO                                  2.3     2.4      22.1    23.5    27.1      21.5    20.5    19.1


IBRDexposureindicators (%)
  IBRDDS/public DS                                             .. 56.0       36.0    23.4      23.3    29.5    23.0

  Preferred creditor DS/public                        ..   24.5      74.6    69.0     91.7     97.8     75.0   63.8

  DS (%)"
  IBRDDS/XGS                                                   ..     1.4      1.5      1.3      1.3     1.5     1.5
  IBRD TDO (US$mld                                1,781   1,840     2,175   2,607   2,607     2,591   2,551   2,544
    O fwhich presentvalue of
    guarantees (US$m)
  Share of IBRDportfolio     e?)                  100.0   100.0      92.9    90.2     85.4     82.1     79.7   78.4

  IDA TDO (US$m)d                                     0        0    167.0   282.0   446.3     564.7    650.1  699.6


IFC (US$m)
  Loans
  Equity and quasi-equity /c


MlGA
  MlGA guarantees (US$m)


a. Includespublic andpubliclyguaranteeddebt, privatenon-guaranteed,use of IMF creditsandnet short- termcapital.

b. "XGS" denotesexportsofgoods andservices, includingworkers'remittances.
c. Preferredcreditorsare definedas IBRD, IDA, the regionalmultilateraldevelopment banks, the IMF, andthe
   Bankfor lntemational Settlements.
d. Includespresentvalue ofguarantees.
e. Includesequity andquasi-equitytypes ofbothloanand equity instruments.




                                                                   36

                                                                   Annex 3
                                                                  Page 1of 1

                             Timetable of Key ProcessingEvents

IdentificationMission:            October 2003

I C MReview:                      November 23,2003

Technical Preparation Mission:    December 2003

Preparation Mission:              May2004

ROC Meeting:                      September 14,2004

Appraisal Departure:              September 21,2004

Negotiations:                     November 1-2,2004

Board Presentation:               December 16,2004




                                              37

                                                                       Annex 4
                                                                     Page 1 o f 9




                        SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO (SaM)

 SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT-REPUBLIC OF SERBIA

                       LETTER OFDEVELOPMENT POLICY


                                                                  November 10,2004

Mr.JamesD.Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 HStreet, N.W.
Washington, D.C., 20433



Dear Mr.President:


1.      The Union of Serbia and Montenegro (SaM), which was formed by the Republic
of Serbia and the Republic o f Montenegro in February 2003 following the Belgrade
agreement in March 2002, has made significant progress across range o f policy reforms
and institutional strengthening. This progress took place against a very challenging
background reflecting the legacy o f a decade of isolation, conflict, and poor economic
management. Our strong commitment to the implementation o f the stabilization program
has enabled us to lower inflation significantly from over 100percent in2000 to below 10
percent in 2003. During this period, our ratios o f external and public debt to GDP have
declined while our foreign exchange reserves have increased substantially. Initial reforms
o f the foreign trade regime, ownership relations, the business environment, the financial
sector, the labor market, and the education and pension systems, have also begun to lay
the foundations for more rapid growth.

2.       The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which we completed in 2003 and
which comprises a union-level overview and a PRSP for each of the republics, presents
our overall economic reform program ingreat detail. With the objective o f attaining key
policy goals laid out in the Serbia PRSP-namely,      ensuringdynamic economic growth,
prevention o f new poverty that may arise from the restructuring and modernization o f our
economy, and improving the effectiveness of social assistance-the    Republic o f Serbia i s
committed to maintain and continue progress on economy-wide structural reforms. To
this end, the Republic of Serbia is requesting support form the Bank through a Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2) for the implementation o f key reform measures for
achieving the main policy objectives underlined inthe PRSP. The specific reforms under
the SAC 2 program will be discussed ingreater detail below.

3.       As per our constitutional arrangements, which transfers a number of
responsibilities to the member states, and different reform challenges and priorities faced
by the two constituent member states, we believe that it is more appropriate to seek




                                               38

                                                                              Annex 4
                                                                             Page 2 o f 9




World Bank assistance for the two constituent members separately. As a consequence,
the implementation of all reforms included in the SAC 2 program would be the
responsibility o f the Republic o f Serbia.

4.      We would like to take this opportunity to also present the macroeconomic
framework that complements the program, as was underscored in the Extended
Arrangement (EA) with the International Monetary Fund(IMF), which was approved by
the IMFExecutive Board in May 2002.

I. MacroeconomicFramework

5.      The macroeconomic framework o f our reform program centers on fiscal
adjustment, wage discipline, and continued monetary stability to put our economy on a
sustainable growth path, and to ensure price stability as well as extemal viability, We are
implementing our reform program inthe context o f the noted macroeconomic framework
supported by the IMF under the EA, which is described in greater detail in a
Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy attached to the Letter of Intent o f May
21, 2004.

6.      With the objective to ensure continued progress, we have updated our policy
targets for 2004-05 and beyond to reflect robust economic growth while addressing
higher inflation and safeguarding a sustainable extemal position. Real GDP is expected
to grow by about 6 percent in 2004 reflecting a strong recovery in industry, due to
accelerated privatizationin2003, strong growth in services, and a rebound in agricultural
output. In 2005, real GDP i s projected to grow by 4% 5 percent, settling at 5 percent in
                                                            -
 subsequent years as restructuring-related output losses subside, privatization and
 enterprise restructuring continue, and cumulative FDI inflows reach higher levels. Due
 mainly to one-off factors-Le.,   higheroilprices, rise inthe electricity prices, and increase
 inexcise taxes-the    inflation rate i s projected to be between 12-13 percent in2004 but is
 targeted to fall under 10 percent in 2005, and to gradually decline to low single digits
 over the medium term.

 7.      The current account deficit (after grants) projection for 2004 i s revisedupwards to
 10.7 percent o f GDP as a result of, inter alia, higher oil prices and a surge in imports. In
 re'sponseto noted developments, the Parliament o f Serbia adopted a re-balanced budget
 for 2004 in October, which constitutes an important step towards reducing public
 consumption. More specifically, the re-balanced budget for 2004, which relies mainly on
 expenditures cuts, envisages a reduction o f the budget deficit in Serbia from 3.9 percent
 of GDP in 2003 to 2.5 percent in 2004. Tighter macroeconomic policies, in tum, are
 expected to lower the current account deficit to 10.2 percent o f GDP in 2005. To ensure
 external sustainability and remain consistent with expected financing, the deficit is
 projected to decline steadily thereafter based on a recovery o f exports as structural
 reforms promote a supply response and prudent policies strengthen competitiveness.

 8.      We are committed to maintaining an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic
 framework for the duration o f the program. To ensure enduring growth together with
 price stability and external viability, we stand ready to take any necessary corrective




                                                     39

                                                                      Annex 4
                                                                    Page 3 o f 9

policy actions and to update our macroeconomic program in close collaboration with the
Staff o fthe World Bank andthe IMF.


11.     The Structural ReformAgenda

9.      With the support o f the World Bank and the rest o f the international community,
we have made significant progress in many areas. More specifically, the World Bank's
first SAC supported our efforts to enhance fiscal sustainability through reforms o f public
expenditure management, the energy sector, social protection, labor markets, and health     .
care. Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC), on the other hand, supported our reform .
efforts in pensions, health, labor, and social protection. Parallel Private and Financial
Sector Adjustment Credits (PFSAC 1 and 2) supported our reform efforts directed at
promoting growth through: (i)    strengtheningthe financial system via the liquidation o f
troubled banks and an improved policy and regulatory environment; (ii)privatizing and
restructuring socially-owned enterprises; and(iii) improving the investment and business
climate.

10.     The coverage proposed operation, with the exception o f the public administration
component, reflects our efforts to deepen the reform process, which has so far been
supported by the above noted World Bank credits and to maintain the momentum gained
so far.    In this connection, we recognize that placing the Serbian economy on a
sustainable growth path and prepare its integration into European structures require
fundamental reforms aimed at improving: (i)   the business climate; (ii)the performance in
the energy sector; (iii)social protection; and (iv) public administration.         We are
confident that our structural reform program addresses the appropriate policy priorities
and complements our macroeconomic framework supported by the IMF's EA.

 11.     The details o f our reform program and the specific actions that we will take are
presentedbelow.


                           11.1 Improvingthe Business Climate

Key obiective: T o enable easier entry and improve corporategovernance.

 i2.     The Government i s committed to facilitate efficient corporate governance and
entry as well as operations o f business. To this end, we have prepared a new Enterprise
 Law, which constitutes an important .component o f the commercial law system and
provides the basis for other laws, such as privatization, business registration, bankruptcy,
 accounting, capital markets and investment funds that have either been passed recently or
 will be passed in the near future. After undertaking a public consultation process, the
 Government has submitted the new Law to the Parliament of Serbia, which is expected to
be enacted inmid-November, 2004. The new Law will support our efforts to promote a
 strong private sector response and employment creation by engendering a more
 conducive business environment for enterprises.




                                             40

                                                                      Annex 4
                                                                      Page 4 o f 9

Key objective: To improve contract enforcement.

13.     The Government recognizes the importance o f improving confidence in and the
performance o f the judicial system through, among other things, strengthening contract
enforcement.      The current state of the contractual compliance and enforcement
mechanisms have an adverse impact on the business climate through, inter alia, leading
excessively highproportion o f cash payments in firms' activities and very high advance
payment before delivery-all      o f which undermine the dynamism o f the market and
business expansion. We recognize that the Republic o f Serbia lags behind other countries
in the area o f contract enforcement and that procedural steps to bringto completion even
a relatively straightforwardlawsuit are extremely cumbersome.

14.     As part of our efforts to improve the business climate, we have prepared a new
Law on Execution Procedures in consultation with various stakeholders. The new Law i s
expected to be enacted by the Parliament of Serbia in mid-November, 2004. The
Government will remain resolute inits efforts to implement other key reform measures in
this area, including steps to implement and monitor the new Law, and general reforms in
the judicial sector, which we deem i s critical for successful implementation o f the new
Law.

Kev objective: T o reduce the cost of doing business and improve the country's
regulatory framework.

15.     The Government recognizes the importance o f reducingthe cost o f doing business
and alleviating the regulator burdenon enterprises, which will be crucial for promoting a
strong private sector response and employment creation. Since restarting our transition to
market economy in late-2000, a significant number o f laws have been replaced with
modem laws consistent with the needs o f a market economy in Serbia. Currently, the
central Secretariat for Legislation reviews all laws and Government decrees to ensure
consistency with the constitution, other laws, and drafting standards. There is, however,
no corresponding review directed at assessing the benefits, costs, and risks o f laws and
regulations on consumers and the economy.

 16.    In order to fill this void and following the example of many countries, we are
introducing Regulatory Ltnpact Analysis (RIA), which will be camed out by the
Regulatory Reform Council. To this end, we have adopted amendments to the Rules o f
Operation of the Government in October 2004, which will require the responsible
ministry to prepare a justification statement in line with the Organization for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) RIA recommendations for each new law, and
other regulatory instruments such as decrees and orders.

    11.2 Energy Sector: InstitutionalDevelopment and PerformanceImprovement

Key obiective: To adopt an enabling framework for energy sector reform.

 17.    The Government recognizes the importance o f power sector reform for promoting
economic growth and enhancing fiscal discipline. Development o f an independent




                                              41

                                                                         Annex 4
                                                                       Page 5 o f 9




regulatory framework is crucial not only for longer-term financiaVoperationa1
sustainability of the power sector, but also for Serbia's accession to the regional energy
market. In this respect, the adoption o f the new Energy Law inJuly 2004 was central to
the power sector reformprocess, as it will set the stage for regulatory development, tariff
reform, energy market liberalization, and industry restructuring. This was followed by the
adoption o f a supporting Energy Strategy and by the establishment o f an independent
regulator, with appointment o f key personnel inNovember 2004.

Kev obiective: To adjust the tariff leveland its structure to maintain cost recovery          .

and improve energy efficiency incentives.

18.     We are determined to improve energy efficiency incentives and to support
operational sustainability o f the power sector by ensuring that tariffs cover costs.
Consistent with this objective, and building on the progress made in recent years, we
have increased the power tariffs to yield a 10 percent revenue increase for EPS in June
2004, which comprised in part reduction o f the first block in the block tariff structure to
350 kWh and an increase for all tariff categories. A smaller first block i s more in line
with regional standards, and better balances objectives related to energy efficiency and
social protection.

Key obiective: To improve payments discipline.

 19.    The Government is resolved to improve payments discipline in the power sector.
To this end, we are pressing ahead with the following measures: (i)maintaining
residential collections-defined     as cash collected divided by invoices-for   the first six
months o f 2004 at or above the level for the corresponding period in 2003 (thereafter the
six month rolling average should be at least as high as the corresponding period in the
previous year); (ii)  offering at least four of EPS' large electricity debtors for sale and
 selling at least two o f them or viable parts thereof; and (iii)
                                                                addressing the problem o f
commercial losses by forming an expert team and identifying areas within the network
 where commercial losses are high, with a view to achieving a reduction in distribution
 losses by the end of calendar year 2004. The transmission company will own all assets
 required bothfor transmission and system control.

 Kev obiective: To achieve power industry commercialization and restructuring.

 20.     Inline with our efforts to improve the performance and strengthen institutional
 development in the sector, we are determined to make significant progress in power
 industrycommercialization and restructuring.To this end, we havetransferredout o f EPS
 8 non-core companies and established within EPS from non-core assets 12 new
 subsidiary companies. Our efforts in this area also included the adoption a Government
 Decision to separate ownership of power generatioddishibution and transmission
 businesses, which took place inNovember 2004.

 21.     Reduction o f the labor force in EPS is one o f the most important components of
 the overall restructuring efforts. Although we recognize that radical labor restructuring i s
 likely to be implemented after EPS unbundiing-following               which management



                                                42

                                                                          Annex 4
                                                                         Page 6 of 9




incentives will be strengthened-the     Government will continue its efforts to improve
labor productivity through maintenance of a net hiring freeze at EPS during the interim
period.

                            11.3 StrengtheningSocial Protection

Kev obiective: To improve effectivenessof the safety net.

22.     We recognize the need improve effectiveness of the safety net through expanded
coverage, greater adequacy o f benefits, and improved targeting. Recent amendments to
the Social Welfare Law enacted inJuly 2004 aimed at addressing key problems inbenefit
design including low coverage and low benefit levels. Due to the delay in passage o f the
noted amendments, the present allocation for social assistance programs, including
Material Support to Families (MOP), inthe 2004 budget was based on actual expenditures
in 2003. The full implementation of policy changes included in the amendments, which
became effective in September 2004, required additional financing. To this end, the
Republic of Serbia has allocated funds in its 2004 State Budget, and the Government of
the Republic o f Serbia has allocated funds inthe draft 2005 State Budget submitted to the
Republic of Serbia Parliament, adequate to fully implement the Social Welfare Law.

 Key obiective: To mitigate the adverse impact of changes in the level and structure
 of electricity tariffs on the poor.

23.     As part o f our efforts to strengthen the safety net, we are determined to address
potential affordability impacts o f the change in the first block in the block tariff structure
 from 600 kWh to 350 kwhon poor groups usingpower. In order to protect these groups
 in the face o f the change in the first block, the Government has introduced a new
 mitigation scheme to support the poor and vulnerable population, whereby recipients of
 child benefit,  minimum pension and MOP are entitled to a discount of no less than 30
 percent o f the monthly bill on consumption up to 300 kWh.

 Key obiective: To improve coordination between social protection programs and
 energy related subsidies as well as monitoring of social impact to achieve better
 targeting and efficiency.

 24.    Inorder to ensure effective implementationof the above notedmitigationscheme,
 we have established a working group consisting of representatives from Ministry o f
 Miningand Energy, Ministryof Labor and Social Affairs, and EPS with the objective to
 improve coordination between social protection programs and other energy related
 subsidies. The Government is determined to take actions to ensure that consumers are
 aware o f available benefits (e.g., a media campaign, a letter to all customers enclosed
 with the bill).

 25.    We acknowledge the importance of the use of periodic household surveys camed
 out by the Republic Statistics Office (RSO) for monitoring reform outcomes and
 assessing the targeting efficiency of various mitigation schemes. Although the reformed
 Household Budget Survey (HBS) was revised to address most o f the relevant issues in




                                               43

                                                                         Annex 4
                                                                       Page 7 of 9




PRSP monitoring, there i s a need to officially entrust the RSO with this work. To this
end, we have ensured that production o f an updatedpoverty profile using data collected
through HBS, which will be published on a regular basis, is included inthe work plan of
the RSO.

                            11.4 ImprovingPublic Administration

Kev obiective: To create a Policy Framework for effective reform of the Public
Administration.

26.     The Government is aware that essential reforms in the system o f Public
Administration cannot be achieved without the adoption o f a broadly supported reform
strategy and action plan. Guided by this principle and following a consultative process
including key stakeholders, we have prepared a Strategy and Action Plan on Public
Administration Reform in early October, which was endorsed by the Public
Administration Reform (PAR) Council and adopted by the Govemment.

27.     The Strategy covers the reform o f the central state administration, as well as
reforms in the system o f local self-govemment. The intendeddirection of reform is to
move service delivery and regulatory management functions out o f the central ministries
and vest them in local authorities and public agencies respectively, thus allowing for a
more client oriented and efficient form ofpublic service delivery.

28.     As a sign o f its commitment to administrative reform, the Government has
already embarked on the design o f a package of key laws, including the Law on
Govemment, the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on State Administration, the Law on
Civil Service and the Law on Salaries. The Law on Government and the Law on Public
Agencies have already been submitted to the Parliament. The Government thus aims to
modernize the legislative framework for the operation o f the state administration by
March 2005, to form the basis for deep reforms in the administration in the following
years.

29.      The Implementation o f the Strategy and related Action Plan will be monitored by
 the Public Administration Reform Council. This Council includes all key ministries
 irivolved inthe design o f the reform process. Furthermore, the capacity o f the Ministry o f
 Public Administration Reform and Local Self-Government to lead the day to day
 implementation of the strategy has been enhanced by the appointment o f additional staff
 and the incorporation o f the former Agency for Public Administration Development in
 the structure o fthe Ministry.

 Kev obiective: To review and reform of the Salary System for the central Civil
 Service.

 30.     The Govemment recognizes that the reform o f the civil service wage system is an
 essential part o f the reform process. Wage reform has the dual objective o f rationalizing a
 significant element o f public expenditure and creating a civil service system that will be




                                               44

                                                                         Annex 4
                                                                       Page 8 o f 9




attractive for qualifiedstaff. Inthis respect, we view successful reform o f the civil service
wage system as a catalyst for further reforms.

31.     Wage reform is a highly complex issue, the design o f which needs to be started
urgently. To this end, we have completed an in-depth review o f the Civil Service pay
system. T o demonstrate our commitment to reforming the salary system, the Ministry of
Finance and Ministry of Public Administration and Local Self Government have issued a
joint policy statement, which outlines the direction of reforms consistent with the
findings o f the recent Review in the following areas (i)reform o f the pay and grading
system, (ii)development of a performance appraisal system linked to the salary system;
(iii)reformofthesystematization process; (iv) de-politization; and(v) integratingstaff
development with careers advancement as set out above. The noted policy statement was
subsequently endorsed by the PAR Council in October 2004 with a view to ensure
adoption of the action planby the first quarter o f 2005.

32.      The Government aims to have in place a new Pay and Grading system for the
central state administration with the budget for 2006 and to implement a new
performance appraisal system by 2007. The reform o f the systematization system will be
conducted in conjunction with an overall review o f staffing levels across the state
administration, which is to be completed by June 2005, followed by detailed reviews of
 individual institutions. Furthermore the decrees and decisions underlying staff planning
 methods will be reviewed and amended. De-politization of top level posts in the central
 state administration will be carried out in the context o f the new Laws on State
 Administration and Civil Service.

 33.     An inter-ministerial working group, consisting of representatives of the Ministry
 of Finance, Ministry o f Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the
 Legislative Secretariat has been created to coordinate the implementation of pay system
 reform.

 Kev objective: T o establish an effective Public Administration Management
 structures.

 34.     Inmovingaheadwith Public Administration reform, we recognize the importance
 of establishing an effective Public Administration management structures. We believe
 that an effective reform management system requires the creation o f a decision-making
 body at the highest level, which will be chaired by the Prime Minister. Towards this end,
 we have created a management structure for public administration reform, including a
 secretariat funded by the state budget in June 2004. We will ensure that Council on
 Public Administration Reform meets on a regular basis and that its secretariat i s fully
 operational.

 35.     We recognize that the above noted policy measures in reforming public
 administration will only set the stage for further reforms in this area. The Government
 remains resolute to implement a coherent medium-term agenda focusing on de-
 politicization of the administration, designing and implementing new Civil Service




                                                45

                                                                       Annex 4
                                                                      Page 9 o f 9




Legislation as well as Civil Service management mechanisms, and implementation of
wage reforms, among other things.


111. Conclusion

36.    The Government of Serbia is undertaking major actions to address pending
structural problems and improve the business climate. We remain resolute to deepen the      .

reforms in the future, and to complement them with measures aimed at strengthening          '


public finances and improving institutions together with policy actions directed at
enhancing the competitivenesso f the Serbian economy.

37.    The Govemment undertakes to continue working on these policy issues, for which
the support by the World Bank andthe rest o fthe intemational communitywill be ofvital
importance in attaining our objectives o f placingthe country on a path o f sustainable and
equitable growth as well as integration intoEuropeanstructures.




Minister for International Economic Relations                      Minister o f Finance
Serbia and Montenegro                                              Republic o f Serbia




                                              46

_.




      ai!8
      E

I  I     I




I  I     I




I   I         I


                                                                                                                                             Annex 6
                                                                                                                                         Page 1of 2


                  Serbia and Montenegro at a glance                                                                                  11/11/04


                                                        Serbia Europe 8         Lower-                                                    _ _
POMRTYand SOCIAL                                            and    Central     middle       -. .                                  -

                                                   Montenegro        Asia       income         Developmentdiamond'                           I
2003
Population, mid-year(millions)                               8.3      473         2,655                        Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                         1,900      2,570        1,480     I
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                             15.8     1,217        3,934

Average annual growth. 199703

Population(%)                                                          0 0          0.9
Laborforce (%)                                                         02           1.2

Mostrecent estimate (latestyear available, 199743)                                          , capita                               enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)              10
Urban population(!! of totalpopulation)                       53        63           50
Lifeexpectancy at birth (yeais)                               72        69           69
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebirths)                          12        31           32
Chiidmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                                                11      i         Accessto improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source(% ofpopulation)                       91           81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                        3           10
Gross primaryenrollment I%of schod-agepopulation)                      103          112      1     -Serbia          andMontenegro

    Male                                                               104          113      1             Lavermiddle-incomegroup
    Female                                                             102          111

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSandLONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                1983       1993      2002          2003      ' Economicratios'
GDP (US$billims)                                                      155          20.5       I
Gross domesticinvestmenVGDP                                           162           15.9                            Trade
Exports of goods and servicesJGDP                                     20 9          19.9
Gross domestic savingsJGDP                                             -72          6.6
Gross nationalsavingsJGDP                                               7 2          6.3

Current accountbalandGDP                                               -89          -9.6      'Domesbc                     _-
Interest paymentdGDP                                                    09           1.3                                           investment
                                                                                              ,savings
Total debffGDP                                                        76 5          69.9
Total debt sewicelexports                                               34           6.7
Present valueof deWGDP
Present valueof debVexports
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                     1983-93 199343        2002      2003       200307
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                                           4.0       30           4.7             ----Serbia      andMontenegro
GDP per capita                                                4.3       32           5.0       1             Lower-mddleincomeg m p
Exports of gwds and services                                 12.3       43          15.5



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% OF GDP)
Agriculture
Industry
    Manufacturing                                                                                o.----r     -
Services                                                                                        -m                                           I
Privateconsumption                                                     889          883         4-
General government consumption                                         183          184                      V G D I        q G D P
Impomof g d s and services                                             443          424



(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture
Industry
    Manufacturing
Services

Privateconsumptiin
General government consumption                                         116           13                   98      99    W     01     02    03

Gross domesticinvestment                                               344           3 6                  ---~xports        *Imports
Importsof gwds and services                                            26 3          7 2


Note:2003 data are preliminaryestimates

* The diamonds show four keyindicatorsinthe country(in bold) comparedwith its income-group average. Ifdataare missing,the diamond wifl
     be incomdete.




                                                                       50

                                                                                                                         Annex 6
                                                                                                                      Page2 of 2



                                                                                         Serbia and Montenearo

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1983 1993    2002   2003
Domesticprices
("Achange)
Consumer prices                                      21.2   11.3
implicitGDPdeflator                                  24.0   14.9

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                      43.3   42.7                    9     8    9 9  0   0    0 1   M
Current budget balance                                -1.l   -1.3                  -GDP         deflator  -CPI
OverallsurpluddefEit                                  -4.6   -3.2


TRADE
                                        1983 1993    2002   2003    __      .. -
                                                                              -                   __    - - -
                                                                      1
(US$ millions)                                                          Exporland lmporl levels (US$mill.)

Total exports(fob)                                  2,412   3.015      9.000 r                                            II
  Food                                                              /8O@n    '
  Otherfuel
  Manufactures
Total imports(cif)                                  6,320   7,957
  Food
  Fueland energy
  Capitalgoods

Export priceindex (1995=100)
Import priceindex (1995=100)
Termsof trade (1995=100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003       -_
                                                                                  ~    ~~




(US$ mil/ions)                                                          Current accountbalanceto GDP (X)

Exportsof goodsand services                         3,241   4,069
Importsof goodsand services                         6,857   8,675
Resourcebalance                                     -3,616 -4,606

Net income                                           -111    -249
Net current transfers                               2,343   2,895

Current account balance                             -1,384 -1,961

Financingitems (net)                                2,495   3,231
Changesin net reserves                              -1,111 -1,270      ,-12 1

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ mi//ions)                 2,280  3,550
Conversionrate (DEC,/ocaUUS$)                         64.3   57.5

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003       -

(US$mi//ions)                                                           Composltlonof 2003 debt(US$ mlll.)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed                 11,768  14,303
  IBRD                                               2,175  2,607
  IDA                                                  167    282      I            G 2.598                 A 2,607

Total debt service                                     184    435
  iBRD                                                  76    106                                                   282
  IDA                                                    0      1
                                                                                                                   C 813
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                                           F 2,057
  Officialcreditors
  Privatecreditors                                                                                                  1,396

  Foreigndirect investment
  Polffdio equity                                                      I                          E 3,650
World Bank prcgram
  Commitments                                                            A IBRD                               E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                        159     95        B IDA
                                                                          --             D Other multilateral   .-
                                                                                             ~                F Privale
  Principal repayments                                   0      0        C- IMF                               G Shod-term
                                                                                                                  ~



  Net flows                                            159     95
  Interestpayments                                      75    107
  Nettransfers                                          a4     -12


DeveiopmentEconomics                                                                                                11111/04




                                                     51

                                                                                             Annex 7
                                                                                           Page 1of 2



                                     Annex :FundRelations Note

The Executive Board o f the International Monetary Fund (IMF) completed the third review o f
Serbia and Montenegro's economic performance under the Extended Arrangement on June 7,
2004. The decision enabled the release o f an amount equivalent to SDR 100 million
(about US$147 million), bringing total disbursements under its current Extended Arrangement to
SDR 300 million (about US$440 million). The three-year Extended Arrangement was approved on
May 12, 2002 for a total o f SDR650million (about US$953 million). The financial position of
Serbia andMontenegro inthe Fundis presented inTable 1.
On June 7, 2004, the IMF Executive Board also completed the financing assurances review and
granted the authorities' request to waive the nonobservance o f an end-December 2003 performance
criterion on net bank credit to government.

Following the Executive Board discussion, Anne Krueger, First Deputy Managing Director and
Acting Chair, said:

 "Serbia and Montenegro has made good progress in lowering inflation, attracting foreign direct
investment, and strengthening foreign reserves, while macroeconomic policies are broadly on
track. To strengthen growth and improve the external position, which continues to be vulnerable to
adverse shocks, macroeconomic policies should be geared toward restraining demand, and
structural reforms expedited to enhancethe economy's supplyresponse.

Against this background, the authorities' macroeconomic policies and structural reform agenda
contained in the 2004 economic program appropriately focus on reducing the current account
deficit, enhancing growth prospects, and correcting the existingfiscal and external imbalances. The
authorities intendto broaden the political support to acceleratethe pace o f structural reforms.

The authorities will tighten fiscal policy in 2004 and shifr spending from current to investment
uses. However, the fiscal tightening in Serbia relies entirely on revenue increases, leaving the
expenditures at a high level in relation to GDP. Placing the fiscal accounts on a sustainable path
will require streamlining of spending, particularly cuts insubsidies, andcontainment of growth in
wages and social transfers.

The monetary authorities intend to maintain tight credit conditions with a view to achieving the
inflation objective and safeguarding official foreign reserves. Wage restraint will be key to
improving external competitiveness, while containing inflationary pressures. With continued high,
albeit slower, credit growth, bank supervision should be vigilant, with strict enforcement of
prudential regulations to ensurethat new lending is sound.

Structural reforms need to pick up pace. In the banking sector, privatization o f the nationalized
banks is critical to building a healthy system. Privatization and restructuring o f nonperforming
state enterprises are also a priority. In addition, rapid progress i s needed on the much-delayed
legislative agenda, to ensure successhl implementation o f the V A T in 2005, set the basis for a
functioningbankruptcy process, facilitate a restructuring o f the energy monopolies, and establish a
proper regulatory framework for that sector. These key structural reforms, as well as additional
measures to improve governance and strengthen public institutions, should help promote private
sector development.


It is important that the authorities continue to negotiate ingood faith with London Club and




                                                    52

                                                                                                            Annex 7
                                                                                                         Page2 of 2


other creditors to restructure their debt on terms comparable to those granted by the Paris Club.
The success will depend crucially on the authorities' credibility in forcefully implementingthe
policy framework," Ms. Krueger said.

                                        Table 1.Serbia and Montenegro
                                     (Updated as of September 30,2004)

    I.MembershipStatus:JoinedDecember14,1992;adoptedArticleVI11onMay13,2002.

   11. GeneralResourcesAccount                                           SDRMillion                        %Quota
        Quota                                                                  467.70                        100.00
        FundHoldingsofCurrency                                               1,078.29                        230.55

  111. SDRDepartment                                                     SDRMillion                    %Allocation
        Net cumulative allocation                                               56.66                        100.00
        Holdings                                                                19.81                         34.95

  IV. OutstandingPurchasesand Loans                                      SDR Million                        %Quota
        Extendedarrangement                                                    400.00                         85.52
         Stand-byarrangements                                                  210.58                         45.02

   V. FinancialArrangements
         IYJE                          Approval     Expiration Amount Approved                   Amount Drawn
                                         Date          Date

         EFF                            5/14/02      5/13/05         SDR 650.0 million SDR 400.0 million
         Stand-by                       6/11/01      5/31/02         SDR200.0 million SDR 200.0 million
         Emergency Post-
         Conflict Assistance           12/20/00                      SDR 116.9 million SDR 116.9 million

 VI.     ProjectedObligationsto Fund
         Underthe RepurchaseExpectations assumption^^^ (Inmillions o f SDR)
                                                                           Forthcoming
                                                   2004            2005           2006            2007         2008
         Principal                                 52.12         139.71         27.08           50.00        116.67
         ChargedInterest                            5.13           17.22         13.82           12.91         10.51
         Total                                     57.25         156.93         40.91           62.91        127.17

Contact persons:
Ms. Pritta Sorsa(psorsa@,imf.org, 202-623-8657)
Mr.Andreas Westphal (awestphal@imf.org, 623 7389)




  This schedule presents all currently scheduled payments to the IMF, includingrepayment expectations where
applicable and repayment obligations otherwise. The IMFExecutive Board can extend repayment expectations (within
predetermined limits) upon request by the debtor country if its external payments position is not strong enoughto meet
the expectations without undue hardship or risk.




                                                            53


MAP SECTION


