Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6428-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
February 24, 1987
e-attion and Manpower Development Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY LQUIVALENT
MIK I.00 = US$ 0.50
US$ 1.00 = MK 2.00 (Sept. 1986)
SDR 1.00 - US$1.27
Republic of Malawi
Fiscal Year April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -      African Development Bank
DEO       -      District Education Office
DPMT      -      Department of Personnel Management and Training
EFTS      -      Equivalent Full Time Student
GDP       -      Gross Domestic Product
IDA       -      International Development Association
JC        -      Junior Certificate
.JCE      -      Junior Certificate of Examination
MCA       -      Malawi College of Accountancy
MCC       -      Malawi Correspondence College
MCE       -      Malawi Certificate of Education
MCE/TB    -      Malawi Certificate of Education and Testing Board
MOEC      -      Ministry of Education and Culture
MIE       -      Malawi Institute of Education
OCC       -      Opportunity Cost of Capital
ODA       -      Overseas Development Agency (UK)
PSLE      -      Primary School Leaving Certificate
SIP       -      Sector Investment Program
pIU       -      Project Implementation Unit
PTTC      -      Primary Teacher Training College
REO       -      Regional Education Offices
SOE       -      Statement of Expenditure



N
FOR OFMICI4L USE ONLY
MALAWI
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Education and Culture
Amount:       SDR 21.4 Million (US$27.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA terms.
Credit        The Credit's objectives are to (a) increase access to primary
Description:  and secondary education through the expansion of facilities,
increased allocation of budgetary resources, and
implementation of efficiency measures to improve the flow of
students entering and completing these levels of education;
(b) improve the quality of primary and secondary education
through the upgrading of teachers and teaching materials and
the provision of adequate textbooks; and (c) improve
sector management through strengthening of the Ministry of
Education and Culture kMOEC), with technical assistance and
training, and through measures to improve educational quality
and efficiency. In support of these objectives, the
Government would implement its Policy Action Program as
described in its Letter of Education Policies. Progress in
implementing the reform program would be reviewed jointly
between ID.h and the government during a mid-term review which
would be held not later than June 30, 1989.
Credit proceeds would finance a three year time slice of the
education investmert program (1985-1995) which has been
reviewed and agreed with IDA. Priority investments have been
agreed to be: (a) at the primury level: the construction and
equipping of about 1500 classrooms and associated staff
housing, provision of about 2 million basic student
textbooks, and in-service training for primary school
teachers; (b) at the secondary level: the construction and
equipping of two boarding schools and I day school,
conversion of 3 MCC facilities to secondary schools, as well
as improvement of MCC's organization and operations; (c)
education management would be improved through the provision
of technical assistance and fellowships, the merger of the
two national teacher examination systems and the carrying out
of studies to monitor and evaluate the efficiency of
implementing project Investments, the cost effectiveness of
various education inputs and Instruction methods, and a
tracer study on the income effects of post primary schooling
and (d) establishment of a University student loan scheme.
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authomiuton.



(ii)
Benefits      Benefits would accrue to students at all levels through
and Risks:    increased access to quality educational opportunities.  The
main set of risks relate to financial and human resource
constraints which might slow down implementation of the
proposed investment plan. First, there is a risk that the
Covernment may have difficulty increasing the share of the
budget devoted to education. However, this risk would be
minimized by increased user charges for boarding and lodging
at al. educational levels. Second, not meeting the increased
need for qualified teachers to improve access to education
and to improve student flows may slow exoansion of primary
educatioa and the attainment of reduced pupil:teacher
ratios. This risk is mitigated by the provision of a
significant amount of training for new teachers and for
teacher upgrading. And third, the complexity of reforms to
be undertaken would require strong and efficient sector
management. Technical assistance and training to the
Ministry of Education and Culture for management and
administration would support the Government's commitment to
implement its reform package.
Estimated Cost:                                      Local   Foreign   Total
---  (US$ Million)
Expansion of Secondary Education       2e6      2.9       5.5
Improvements of Primary Education      7.9     10.5      13.4
Institutional Development              0.8      3.6       4.4
Improved cost recovery                 0.5      0.5       1.0
Total Base Costs                      11.8     1732f    ].2
Physical Contingencies                 1.2       1.7      2.9
Price Contingencies                    1.1      0.7       1.8
Total Costs a/                        14.1     19.9      34.0
Financing Plan:
Government a/                          4.4      -         4.4
IDA                                    9.0     18.0      27.0
ODA                                    0.7      1.9       2.6
Total                                 14.1     19.-9    R "
a/   Including taxes and duties estimated at US$1.0 million.
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY               1988   1989   1990   1991  1992   1993
-    --(US$ Million)-- - - - --
Annual             1.6    5.7    7.5    6.5   4.3    1.4
Cumulative         1.6    7.3   14.8   21.3  25.6   27.0
Rate of Return:            Not Applicable.



(iii)
STAll APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Basic Da,.a
Country Data
Per Capita GNP (1985)                                      US$ 210
Total Population                                           7.0 million
(est. mid year 1985)
Population Growth                                          3.1% per annum
Education 1984/85
Total            Gross          Female enrollment
Level               Enrollment       Enrollment         as I of Total
-    -ARatio
Primaryl/           899,459              54.4                42.7
Secondary2/          24,343   3           5.0                30.4
MCC                  10,278   )
University            1,964                .01               22.4
Primary T. Training   1,920               n.a.               36.9
Vocational/Tech.trg.    500               n.a.                n.a
Public Expenditure on Education 1984/85
Education share as (I) of total Government budget            10.2
Bducation share as (X) of GDP                                 3.5
Education share as (Z) of Government capital budget          14.3
Education share (as X) of Government Recurrent budget        9.6
1/ includes private schools
2/ includes Forms 5 and 6



STAFF APPRAISAL RPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT SIMARY .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .         (i-i)
BASIC DATA   .... . . . . . . . . . . .   a * .   * .   * .    .  (iii)
I.   THE ECONOMY AND EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT . .  . . ....            1
II.  THEEDUCATIONANDTRAINING SECTOR . ..      . . . . .    .
The Education and Training System  . . . . .. ...           3
Government Strategy    ..............a...............       4
Bank Group Experience and Lending Strategy . . . . .        5
Issues in Education and Training . . . . . . . . . .        7
III. THE SECOND TEN-YER EDUCATION PLAN
Objectives #. . . . . . . . .    . . .. . . . .o. .o . .   13
Strategies and Program . ... . .o  . . .0. . . . . .       14
Financial Resource Requirements  . . . . . . . . . .       17
Financial Viability of the Plan: An Assessment . . .       17
Economic Viability   . . . . .0. . . . .. . . . . ..       22
A Realisable Investment Plan . . . . . . . . . . . .       25
IV. POLICY ACTION PROGRAM
Objectives   o. o . . . . . .. .o .   . . . . .. . . ..    27
Impact of Policy Changes . . o.. .. . . . . . ...          30
V.  THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Rationale and Objectives .  . . . . .0.0. ... . Id         33
Program Cost and Financiag  .. ..     . . . . . . . .      38
Financing Plan .......,........................            41
Disbursements  .. .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .          42
Procurement  ... . . . . o . .   . o  .. .&. . .. .. .o    43
Implementation  ................................           44
Reporting and Auditing  o . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      45
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Malawi in June, 1986. The mission consisted of Mrs. N. Shields (Economist,
mission leader), Messrs. A. Stam (Sr. Architect), D. Rouag (Sr. Educator),
B. Jimenez (Economist), B. Fuller (Economist), T. Mbise (Mgmt. Spec:lallst,
Consultant), N. Fisher (Educator, Consultant) and P. Murphy (Non-formal
Education Specialist).



Page No.
VI.  BENIFTTS AND RISKS
Bernefits ...............a............. .... ...            46
Risks  .*. .   *   ... . . *.a ..**            *...         47
VII. AGREEHBNTS REACHED AND RACOWMONDATIONS  . .                    47
ANNXS
Annex A - Statement of Educational Policy
Annex B - Methodology for Expenditure Projections
Annex C - School Development Program (criteria for the identification and
appraisal of schools)
Annex D - Organization and Management of Education Services in the Ministry
of Education and Culture
Annex E - Committee for Monitoring and Evaluating Quality of Education
Annex F - locus of Mid-term interim Review
Annex G - Supply of textbooks and costs based on 1985 enrollment
Annex H - Selected documents available in the project file
Tables
1  -   Distribution of Expenditure 1973/74 - 1984/85
2   -   Primary School Curriculum
3   -   Secondary School Curriculum
4   -   Unit Costs
5   -   Social Rates of Return to Schooling
6   -   Education Development Expenditure by Sector
7  -   Technical Assistance and Fellowship
8   -   Program Cost Summary
9   -   Summary Account by Component
10   -   Program Cost Summary by Category
11   -   Implementation Schedule
12   -   Schedule of Disbursements
13   -   Comparative Education Indicators
Charts
I  -   Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
2   -  Functional Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
3   -   Structure of the Education System
4   -   Primary School Enrollments 1984/85
5   -   Post-Primary Enrollments 1984/85.
MAP



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
I.  THE EKCOOMY AND EDUCATION DIVER OPEENT
1.01      After three very difficult years in 1980-82, when Gt? per capita
declined by 12 percent and when the Government's budgetary deficit reached
record levels, the economy of Malawi has begun to recover. The medium-term
outlook is for continued adjustment and a modest growth of per capita
incomel/. In order to establish the base for a more rapid growth of per
capita7income, the government is continuing to implement its Structural
Adjustment Program. Despite substantial progress in a number of areas,
particularly in liberalization of pricing policy, one key area which
remains a problem is the government's ability to meet budgetary targets.
In order to prevent government deficits from crowding out the private
sector, the government's objective is to generate recurrent budget
surpluses, but without increases in the overall level of taxation relative
to GDP.
1.02      The government's policy since independence has been to invest its
own resources in directly productive rather than social sectors and its
investment expenditures have mostly been directed to such income generating
activities as small holder agriculture, infrastructure and public utilities
which cannot easily attract private investment. Although there has been
significant nominal growth in educational recurrent expenditures, from MK1O
million in 1973/74 to NK39.1 million in 1984/85 (Annex Table 1), this is a
lower rate of increase than that for government as a whole. There was a
decline in the share of education in total government expenditures from 16X
to 10% - except for the period betweeen 1981/82 and 1982/83 when a slight
increase was experienced.  Moreover, in real terms, recurrent expenditure
on education, as in other social services has recently stagnated. For the
period 1977-85, the average annual growth rates of real recurrent
expenditures were 3 percent for education and 4 percent for other social
services, as compared with 8 percent for all government. Within the last
five years (1979/80 - 1984/85) during which the real rate of growth of the
Malawian economy slowed down considerably, as compared to the previous six
years, the social sectors bore the brunt of the decline. The average
annual growth rate of real government expenditures on education was less
than 1 percent; for other services, there was a decline of almost 2
percent (Table 1.1). This table indicates that the main reason for this
decline is debt service including amortisation which grew in real te m at
almost 18 percent per annum during the last five yeart. The expectation2/
is that this recent massive growth in debt service (particularly interest
payments) will abate in the near future, thus allowing increasing
allocation to the priority sectors of agriculture, education and health.
1/ World Bank, Malawi: Economic Recovery, Resource and Policy Needs,
Country Economic Memorandum, 1985.
2/ World Bank, Opcit.



-2-
Table 1.1
Real Growth Rated of GDP and Government
Recurrent Expenditures: 1973/74 to 1984/85
Annual Growth Rate (Percent)
1973/74-1979/80 1979/80-1984/85 1973/74-1984/85
Sectors
Total Government              10.0             5.1              7.8
Education                      4.4             0.4              2.5
Other Social Services          9.1            -1.9              4.0
Defense                       26.7            -3.6             11.9
Other administration          11.3            -0.5              5.8
Economic services              6.8             4.0              5.5
Debt Service                  14.1             18.0            15.9
Miscellaneous                  4.2             0.1              2.3
GDP                           6.3            17               4.2
Source: Bank Staff calculations
On the other hand, there have been real increases in the educational
development budget since 1981182 of about 5.1 percent per annum. This
increase is due primarily to external assistance through IDA and has been
insufficient to meet Malawi's needs.
1.03      Although expenditure on education has increased slightly, there
has been continued pressure, because of population growth, to expand the
provision of educational services. The combination of high monetary returns
to additional schooling and the relatively low private cost implied by
government subsidies make education highly attractive. In primary levels,
where the government has a policy of open access, this pressure has been
reflected in severe overcrowding in many urban and some rural schools,
where class sizes of 100-150 are not uncommon, particularly in the lower
grades. At secondary and university levels, where the policy is to provide
high-quality education to a limited number of successful applicants, there
is excess demand for places. At secondary levels, it has been estimated
that there are over eight qualified applicants for every available place;
at the Univerdity of Malawi, a conservative estimate of the ratio of
applicants to entering students is 4 to 1.
1.04      It is socially and economically productive for Malawi to expand
the resources being devoted to education. Data from the 1981 Household and
Income Expenditure Survey Indicated that the social rate of return on
investment in primary education was about 14 percent; in secondary
education, 15-20 percent; and in university education, 11 percent (Annex
Table 5). These estimates are generally in line with those for Africa as a
whole, except that the social rate of return to primary education is
somewhat lower than for the average African country. While these rates of
return are based mainly on earnings data, there is also considerable



- 3 -
evidence that the development of agriculture, which is the mainstay of the
economy, is crucially dependent upon a literate labor force to improve its
productivity. Education, especially of women has also important effect on
levels of fertility.
II  DR  RDhCATION AND TRAINING SCTR
The Education and Training System
2.01      The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) is responsible for
all formal education and training in Malawi. This includes primary,
secondary geaeral and technical and post secondary institutions such as the
Primary Teacher Training Colleges, and the Malawi College of Accountancy
(MCA). It is also responsible for the non-formal system of secondary
education (Malawi Correspondence College (MCC)' . In addition, MOEC has
formal responsibility for the University of Malawi, Malawi Institute of
Education (MIE), and the Malawi Certificate and Testing Board (MCE/TB)
although in practice this responsibility is exercised through its
membership in the Management Boards of such bodies (Charts 1 and 2).
Primary education in Malawi is eight years in duration with a national
normative examination at the end of five years and a final school leaving
examination at the end of the eight years. Secondary education is divided
into lower and upper cycles each of two years duration leading to the
Junior Certificate (JC) and Malawi Certificate of Education (MCE)
respectively. Post secondary education courses are of varying duration,
with primary teacher training of two years and university education of four
to five years (Chart 3). Schooling is not compulsory nor is there an age
attendance limit. Private schooling accounting for less than one percent
of total enrollment is not well developed . In addition, the MCC
enrolls about 10,000 students in its 105 study centers, about 2000 students
in its 17 night secondary schools and a further 3,000 study at home,
2.02      In addition to general education, MOEC is also involved in
technical and vocational education through the MOEC - operated Technical
Colleges and the Polytechnic-based Board of Governors Courses. These
courses are jointly administered with the Ministry of LIbor which is
primarily responsible for meeting the private sector training needs. At
present almost all major ministries have training units. Most operating
ministries also provide vocational training for their own skilled workers
notably, agricultural assistants, vu_erinarian assistants in the Ministry
of Agriculture and Health and nursing assistants in the Ministry of Health,
and the public administration courses provided by institutions under the
Department of Personnel Management and Training (DPMT).
2.03      The MOEC is responsible for education policy.  It is divided into
four units under the general supervision of the Principal Secretary
assisted by a Deputy Secretary (Chart 2). These are: planning, education
inspectorate and examinations, education administration, accounts and



-4 
personnel departments. The inspectorate is exclusively responsible for
secondary schsAl inspection while the education administration is
responsible for inspecting and administering primary schools, primary
teacher training, technical schools and correspondence education, Partial
decentralization of education administration has resulted from the creation
of three regional education offices (REO) and 28 district education offices
(DEo). Field supervision of primary schools is carried out by regional and
district level staff using guidelines provided by headquarters. Field
level supervision, as well as secondary school administration, primary
teacher training, technical and correspondence education are centralized at
headquarters.  The responsibility of the planning section includes
identification, preparation, supervision and evaluation of education
projects, policy studies and preparation of education statistics.
Government Strategy
2.04      Education is regarded In Malawi as the catalyst that activates
economic development, as a means of raising the standard of living of the
population. Since its independence in 1964, the Government's effort to
develop the education system has been an integral part of a wider national
policy. The policy has been to ensure that the sector meets the manpower
rieds of the economy. Emphasis was placed on the expansion of secondary
education from its then very low base of 3,100 students in 1962 and on the
establishment of the University of Malawi. Broad goals for the sector
established in the Government's First Education Plan (1973-1980), gave
priority to improved internal efficiency, more equitable distribution of
educational opportunity, sad continued expansion of secondary and higher
education to meet the needs of the economy. Specific targets to be
achieved during the period were: (a) raising the gross enrollment ratio at
the primary level from 33.5 percent to 50 percent, and at the secondary
level from 3 percent to about 15 percent; and (b) improving the quality of
primary teacher education by gradually phasing out the training at the
lower levels. During the First Plan period, which was extended to 1984,
there was considerable expansl-= ef education at all levels. However
expansion at the secondary level was limited to the perceived need of the
economy at that time. Total enrollments grew at an annual rate of 5 percent
between 1974 and 1984. In 1984, gross enrollment ratio at the primary
level was estimated at 64 percent but the secondary enrollment ratio was
only 5 percent. Between 1974 and 1981 enrollment at the University
increased about 10 percent per annum andl in the primary teacher training
institutions, 38.4 percent per annum, whlile the increase in enrollment in
technical education was about 7 percent.
2.05      Female Participation: Over the period, the female share of total
enrollment at all levels increased substantially.  In 1984 girls accounted
for 42 percent of total enrollment at the primary level, 29 percent at the
secondary level, 21 percent at the university and 38 percent of enrollment
at the primary teacher training institutions compared to 30 percent, 20
percent, 20 percent and 25 percent respectively in 1980.



-5-
Bank Group Experience and Lending Strategy
2.06      Past experience and lessons learned: Although other external
sources have supported particular elements of the education program (most
notably ODA and the African Development Bank (APDB) the World Bank has had
the most sustained and most comprehensive involvement in the sector in
Malawi. The Bank has been active in the education and training sector
since 1963 as reflected in five education projects (two of which are
ongoing and one recently completed) and in sector work particularly the
study on Financing and Efficiency of Education, (Report No. 4894-MAI) and
policy discussions which resulted in the preparation of the Second
Education Plan.  The Bank lending in the sector has focused on
reinforcement of general education at the primary and secondary levels.
The three completed projects supported expansion of and quality
improvements at the primary and secondary levels including technical
education. The First Education Project (Credit 102-MAI, signed in 1967)
provided US$6.3 mllion equivalent to expand secondary education to meet
manpower needs, to introduce technical subjects in secondary schools, and
to establish a new primary teacher training college in Lilongwe. A Project
Performance Audit (No. 2914) was completed in March, 1980. The Second
Education Project (Credit 590-MAI) signed in 1975) provided US$11.6 million
equivalent to establish a new primary teacher training college in Nzuzu, to
expand secondary education, principally th ough provision of additional
places for girls, and to establish 23 model primary schools which would
also serve as rural adult centers. A project completion report dated
September 21, 1982 has been distributed.  The project was not formally
audited.
2.07      Evaluation of these two completed projects indicates, inter alia,
good success in assisting in the establishibent of the two new primary
teacher training colleges. These two institutions are well managed, and
they are adequately meeting their educational goals of training primary
school teachers. At the secondary level, implementation of the First and
Second Projects has resulted in enrollment increases as planned and the
secondary schools are also well managed. The introduction of technica.
subjects, especially wood and metal work, into these schools has not been
fully satisfactory because of high recurrent costs, lack of specialized
teachers, and lack of student interest.   Because of these problems the
MOEC is no longer introducing technical subjects into general secondary
schools and is concentrating on expanding the specialized technical
schools. In primary education, the experience of the Second Education
Project has shown that it is difficult to utilize primary schools as adult
learning centers, and these schools would best be used solely for the
primary level. In addition, it was found that a management system and
supervision of local building teams were needed before communities could be
expected to assist in replicating the model srchools through self-help
construction. Overall the Government regularly allocates funds for
maintenance of Government institutions, and project schools have been found
to be adequately maintained.



-6-
2.08      The Third Education Project (Credit 910-MAI and EEC Credit
12-MAI, signed in 1979 and totalling US$22.0 million) expands and broadens
the Bank Group's involvement in educational development. It is designed to
improve (a) primary education, through self-help construction of 1000
primary school classrooms and provision of textbooks to primary school
children; (b) educational management, through establishment of the Malawi
Institute of Education (MIE), provision of vehicles for the school
inspectorate, and support for various educational studies and evaluation;
and (c) training of essential middle level manpower, through expansion of
the MCC and of the Chancellor College secondary teacher training program,
as well as through modest expansion of agricultural, commercial, and
general secondary education. Management and organization problems,
particularly at the local level, slowed down the implementation of the
self-help primary school construction program. As a result, the closing
date was extended by 18 months. The project closed on December 31st 1985.
At the time of appraisal of the Third Education Project, the Government was
not committed to secondary school expansion on the grounds that there was a
possibility of umemployment of seconday school leavers. By the time of
appraisal of the Zourth Education Project, it was clear that secondary
school expansion was the highest priority. Accordingly, the Fourth
Education Project (Credit 1123-MAI, signed May, 1981 for US$41.0 million
equivalent) provides for 3,960 new secondary student places and for further
expansion of Chancellor College's secondary teacher training program. The
project also includes pre-investment studies for a new IPA and a new
primary teacher training college, as well as funds to prepare a National
Education Plan. The closing date was extended to December 31st 1986 to
enable the government complete the pre-investment studies.
2.09      The Fifth Education Project (Credit 1330-MAI) signed May 5, 1983
and totalling SDR 30.9 million is designed to improve primary education,
expand the output of secondary level educational institutions, increase the
number of trained accountants and accounting technicians and to strengthen
the management of education and auditing systems. Apart from slight delay
in providing counterpart funds, overall implementation of the project is
satiefactory and it is expected to be completed by the original closing
date of September 30, 1988. The Bank is also financing a Human Resource
Development Study which will assess the medium term skilled manpower needs
for the country.
2.10      Bank Group Strategy - This evolution of Bank lending also
reflected key lessons learned from on-going lending, particularly the need
to ensure that overall education policies and strategies are clearly
delineated and ahdered to, and the need to further develop MOECs
institutional capability to manage the education system. The Bank's overall
assistance stratogy includes continued support to the sector because of its
crucial importance to the country's economic development. A broad range of
assistance is expected to continue which would help improve the quality of
primary and secondary educatior, to strengthen education management, and to
increase the output of technical and professional manpower in accordance
with ec6nomic development needs.



-7-
Issues in Education and Traininag
2.11      Despite progress in the provision of education services, the
Malawi's education system faces serious problems. Of particular concern
are those relating to the primary level of education, since the quality of
education in the sector as a whole is determined by the effectiveness of
first level schooling. In general terms, the principal issues relate at
all levels to inequitable access to educational opportunities, internal
efficiency, cost effectiveness of the system and educational administration
and management.
(a) Access to Educational Opportunities
2.12       Primary Level: Although education has expanded raipidly, there
are still severe shortages of facilities at both the primary and secondary
levels to cope with the demand for education and with the in^rease in
school age population due to population growth. The national gross
primary enrollment ratio in 1983/84 was 58 percent3/ while tlhe net
enrollment is estimated at about 44 percent. Access is constiained as well
by inability of poor parents to pay fees. There are disparities in gross
enrollment ratios among regions. The Central region approximates the
national average, while the North enrols 112 percent of the eligible age
group (6-13) and the South enrols only 58 percent. While this disparity
may in part reflect differing parental attitudes to education and inability
to pay for schooling, it is undoubtedly influenced by the lack of school
facilities. For example, a survey of facilities showed that there was a
shortfall of about 33 percent of the total class room requirement given the
number of students enrolled in the South compared to 22.8 percent in the
Central and 20.4 percent in the North. The low net primary school
enrollment ratios show that between 700 and 800 thousand school age
children who should have been in school are without schooling. The most
conspicuous shortfall of actual versus potential enrollment occurs for
primary school age girls, fewer than 30 percent of whom attend school. The
problem is extremely acute in the rural areas where girls account for only
20 percent of total enrollment. Reported illiteracy rates from the 1977
census provide evidence of the consequences of low enrollment in primary
education. Although there has been some improvement in recent years,
estimates by UNICEF show that the situation for woaen has only marginally
improved. Government's effort to improve literacy has so far focused on
increasing access to basic education. Bank support to expand adult
education under the Second Education Project failed as the government
simply did not take advantage of the centers provided. However there are
ongoing discussions with UNICEF to tackle the problem of illiterate young
adults.
3/ Includes private schools. The Government estimates this to be 63
percent. The difference is due to the base population estimate.
The Government's estimate is based on a lower population growth rate of
2.7 percent whereas IBRD estimates the population to be growing at
3.1 percent per annum.



-8-
2.13      The current low level of net enrollment is a cause of serious
concern because it implies that there is a. large proportion of the
population who are denied basic literacy and numeracy skills required in
the modern eeonomy. As noted above, the development of agriculture
requires a literate labor force to enable it to improve its productivity.
The diversification of the economy away from primary production requires
that new skills be acquired. The objectives of efficient public sector
management require that the educational system produce high caliber
individuals who will manage the economy. Another reason for expanding
basic education is that such an expansion which would raise female
participation, would yield long run benefits in the form of reduced
fertility. Although no specific studies of this phenomenon have been
carried out for Nalawi, studies in other parts of the world show that among
policy variables, expanded education for girls tends to reduce fertility
significantly.
2.14      The main reason for the low observed level of enrollment is lack
of school facilities. Due to financial constraints, the Government has
only partially addressed the situation. With assistance from IDA in the
Third Education Project (Cr. 910-MAI), 1000 additional classrooms were
constructed under a semi-self help scheme. A school location (mapping)
plan was prepared in 1979. However, owing to the current method of
financing school construction, the plan has not been strictly adhered to
and location still depends on the community's ability to provide the
necessary supporting services and to finance school construction.
2.15      Secondary education is carried out in (a) twenty six government
or government aided boarding schools; (b) thirty one government or
government aided day schools (most of which, with or without government
help, have developed boarding facilities); (c) sixteen unaided schools; and
(d) about 105 MCCs and night secondary schools. At the Secondary level,
the gross enrollment ratio is about 5 percent of the age group and there
are insufficient secondary places for qualified students. For example, of
the nearly 60,000 standard 8 students who passed the Primary School Leaving
Examination (PSLE), about 7,000 or 11.5 percent obtained entry to a
secondary school (equivalent to 5 percent of the 14 year old population).
There is open access to the MCC, but this is regarded by many as an
inferior education. Selection techniques for admission to the upper cycle
(Forms 3-4) of secondary education present similar problems. Students in
Form 2 who successfully complete junior secondary education are often
excluded from their own school because of lack of Form 3 places, since a
percentage of Form 3 places is reserved for enrollees in MCC who pass the
Junior Certificate Examination (JCE).
(b) Quality of Education
2.16       Physical Constraint: In 1983/84, the average class size at the
primary level was 66. However, this national average does not reflect the
actual situation in many schools, especially in urban areas, where an
average class size of 150, particularly in the lower grades is the norm.



-9-
As stated in para. 2.14, because of financial constraints, the government
has only partially addressed the situation. The government estimates that,
in order to achieve the desired classroom pupil ratio of 1:50 for the
existing primary school population, it would require 4,000 additional
classrooms by year 1990. The problems associated with the shortfall in the
number of classrooms are magnified by the almost total lack of school
furniture and by serious deficits in teaching/learning materials. It is
not uncommon to see about 140-160 students including young adults squeezed
into a single classroom and seated on the floor. These conditions militate
heavily against efficient learning. As many as five students share a
single textbook. Stationery is severely limited or unavailable especially
in the early years of primary education. Most students receive 1/2 of one
exercise book a year. Levy of the MKl.00 per student annually for textbook
replacement, and the fee contribution to stationery, are totally inadequate
for these needs.
2,17      Human Resource Constraint: Teacher availability at the primary
level has not kept pace  lith enrolment expansion.  In 1984/85, the student
:teacher ratio at the primary level had escalated to 60:1, as compared to
50:1 in 1971/72. This however was better than the situation in 1983/84
when it was 66:1. In 1984/85, due to uneven distributioa of teachers the
ratio varies, widely, from 49:1 in Mzuzu City to 85:1 in Mangochi. Many
schools, especially in urban and semi urban areas have ratios in excess of
100 students per teacher. Moreover, the ratio of student to qualified
teacher ratio is 87:1. In this regard, urban schools are decidedly at an
advantage. The majority of schools in rural areas lack decent staff houses
and therefore have difficulty attracting qualified teachers. Although
providing all rural teachers with adequate accommodation would consume a
large portion of investment funds, investment in housing is a sine qua non
for attracting competent and well qualified teachers to the disadvantaged
areas.
(c) Internal Efficiency
2.18       Primary   Level: The efficiency of the public primary education
system is low. Only about 23 percent of the children who enter the system
complete the full eight years of primary education. In 1984/85, out of
848,000 enrolled students in primary schools, repeaters accounted for over
140,000 or 16.5 percent of total enrollment. Repetition occurs at every
grade of the cycle, though it predominates in standard eight (17 percent in
standard 1; 16 percent in standard 2; and 38 percent in standard 8). These
levels of repetition account to a large extent for the very large class
sizes characteristic of these grades. It takes an average of 16 years of
schooling to produce one eighth year graduate; and the co#;t per graduate is
therefore twice the theoretical cost if there were no dropout or
repetition. Calculated at an average student to classroom or student
teacher ratio of 50:1, repeaters currently occupy the equivalent of 3,000
classrooms and teachers. Elimination of repetition would reduce the
student per classroom and per teacher ratio to below 50:1. Multiple
repetition in standard eight is in part due to the structure of the PSLE



- 10 -
examination and to the limited access to secondary education. The PSLE is
almost entirely a test of memory rather than cognitive skills. As such, it
encourages repetition of the examination until the level of pass is high
enough to merit a secondary school place. Moreover, it is weighted against
the students of the highest potential who complete the primary cycle
without repetition, but who inevitably score lower marks in a memory test
which some students may have taken four or five times.   The age/gra. a
distortion continues in secondary school, where most of the students enter
at about 19 yeare of age.  Another phenomenon of primary education is the
magnitude of drop out. In the cohort entering the system in 1977/78, 33
percent dropped out between standard 1 and standard 2 and 13 percent
dropped out between standard 2 and standard 3. Overall, the gross
retention rate for this cohort was only 48 percent.
2.19      Supervision of Teachers: On the administrative side, most of
the primary school principals are required to carry a full teaching load,
and are therefore unable to monitor adequately the progress of the teachers
and pupils under their control. The primary inspectorate (with 52
inspectors in 28 districts) is unable to visit all the schools regularly
because of (a) lack of funds for subsistence payments, (b) lack of
transport which limits visits to schools only in their immediate vicinity,
and () preoccupation with other duties such as examinations which limits
the time otherwise at their disposal to only six months within the calendar
year. As a result many schools have not been visited for four years.
2.20      Curriculum and Teaching Materials: The primary school curriculum
(Annex Table 2) appears to be overloaded and needlearly compartmentalized.
Because of the overlap system, the lower primary classes receive as little
as 15-18 hours of instruction per week (10 or more timetabled subjects
would appear excessive since many of them receive perfunctory treatment in
the one hour a week allocated to them). A more integrated approach,
particularly in the early classes (e.g. geography with history and civics,
general science with health and agriculture) would provide the student with
a better view of the world around him and the teacher with a more
Interesting approach to teaching. There is also the need for a fundamental
review of what is taught. Almost all of the textbooks used in primary
schools are the product of commercial publishers, often unsatisfactory for
Malawi. Curriculum development has almost exclusively been confined to the
production of teachers guides based on existinu texts. A detailed
examination of the content of approved texts and th3ir adaptation to the
realities of life in Malawi is long overdue.
2.21      Secondary Education: The quality of formal secondary education is
relatively high as measured by the success rate in the junior and senior
secondary examinations. The student:teacher ratio is 21:1. About 90
percent of the teachers are expatriates. However, secondary schools are
short of science, mathematics and English teachers. Considerable numbers
of locally trained teachers are required to teach subjects for which they
hate no academic qualification.   The qualification required of secondary
school teachers is a University degree or diploma. These programs



- 11 -
prepare them essentially to teach one subject and this restricts their use
in fields outside their specialisation. Consequently many teachers are
under-employed, with an average teaching load of 25-26 periods a week out
of 45 timetabled periods.   At both the JC and MCE levels, students are
required to take eight prescribed core subjects and up to three optional
subjects, out of a total of 15 subjects (Annex Table 3). In practice, the
number of subjects available in any school is determined by staff and
physical resources. The secondary school daily timetable shows significant
variations between schools. In the majority of cases, however, school
facilities tend to be unused beyond mid-afternoon. The lower enrollment
ratio at this level and the need to reduce the number of subjects offered
suggest that the schools could be better utilized through double shifting.
The content of the syllabi requires updating especially in the mathematics,
science, agriculture, and home economics.
2.22      Malawi Correspondence College: The quality of education at the
MCC is low.  Conceived as correspondence centers offering lower cost
alternatives to students who fail to obtain places in the formal secondary
schools, MCCs were expected to function as support centers offering radio
and other distance learning resources and tutorial guidance, as a back-up
to the correspondence- materials provided to enrolled students. In
practice, they are poorly managed and operate as small, over crowded pseudo
secondary schools, inadequately housed and equipped and staffed by teachers
who, lack in training in their role as tutors and attempt to conduct the
centers as formal schools. The situation is worsened by long delays in the
delivery of correspondence learning materials and in the marking and return
of student exercises. Predictably, the examination success rate is low;
over the past years, less than 10 percent of the students taking the JC
examinations passed at a single sitting. The MCC concept is a worthwhile
experiment in cheap alternative secondary opportunities, but is now ready
for reformulation.
2.23      Primary Teacher Training: The present curriculum affords the
student little understanding of techniques such as, cumulative record
keeping and student assessment, remedial teaching and multigrade teaching.
New policies regarding multigrade teaching and student assessment will
increasingly require an understanding of these concepts. As presently
organized, the curriculum is heavily oriented towards academic rather than
professional training, perhaps because of the deficiencies that exist in
these academic areas. However, sound knowledge of pedagogical techniques
and teaching practice should be the first priority of a primary teacher
training institution and it would be more economical to demand better
academic preparation prior to entry into the training program.
2.24      Technical/Vocational Education and Training: The five Government
technical colleges offer crafts and technician courses in construction,
engineering and business studies. These have recently been expanded under
U.K. sponsored Overseas Development Agency (ODA) technical assistance
projects. Commercial wings in existing schools have been assisted under IDA
Third Education Project. Boarding accommodation exists for 1,058 technical



- 12 -
and 120 commercial students. However total annual enrollments in
vocational/technical education (excluding commercial education) have
declined since 1979/8n, from 694 to 500 in 1983/84.  The anticipated
enrollment in 1986/87 school year is about 820, representing an under
utilisation of facilities of about 22 percent. Part of the problem of
under enrollment stems from the fact that admissions to the colleges are
controlled by the Ministry of Labour, in accordance with the perceived or
estimated industrial demand. Reduced job opportunities have caused
lay-offs and unemployment among technically trained workers. Because of
keen competition for a limited number of MCE places, applicants for
technical courses often withdraw when offered places either at the
university or other third level institution and thereby creating
under-enrollment. The planned manpower survey should provide an
opportunity to review the future direction of technical/vocational
education.
2.25      National Examination Administration: There are five national
examinations. The Malawi Certificate Education is administered by the
MCE/TB. The Primary school standard five examination, PSLE, the JCE and the
Primary Teacher Training Examination are administered by the examination
section of MOEC.   The existence of the two examination authorities results
in scarce specialized expertise needed for effective administration of
tests and analysis of results being dissipated and not being brought to
bear on the overall system. The examination and testing operations are
vast and complex. Coordination is therefore urgently needed in the
organisation of examinations, acquisition of equipment, use of facilities
and staff. Instead of adhoc use of teachers and inspectors and borrowing
of equipment which might have been feasible when numbers were smaller,
there is need for a more independent staff and control for equipment for
printing, scoring and data analysis. Some issues of geographical
dispersion also need to be resolved in the interest of efficiency.
2.26      UniversitY:  A recent study on Costs and Efficiency of the
University4/ revealed that the University was very inefficient compared
wtn otner countries. The study concluded that by increasing staff:student
ratios from the present 1:8.4 to 1:10 for science and 1:12 for Arts courses
the college could enroll up to 250 more students with the present
establishment. A recent study on secondary teacher supply has examined the
curriculum of education students at the university as well as the annual
intake into the Department of Education and concluded that the current
level of intake is insufficient to meet the needs of the secondary system
for teachers. The report urged the Department to increase its intake of
students so as to reach the annual required output of 130 graduates a
year. Hostel facilities are underutilised at the University. In the
current academic year there were 40 unoccupied hostel places at Chancellor
College, a constituent part of the Univesity. In addition, it urges that
4/ R,M. Mawidh et al of University of Bath: The costs and efficiency of the
University and other Post Primary Education in Malawi - 1985.



- 13 -
the course content should be realigned so as to introduce education studies
in the first year, with more weight given to practical teaching during the
course.
(d) Financial and Cost Issues
2.27      In nominal terms, the recurrent budget of the MOEC has grown
substantially. However, as a percent of government recurrent budget, the
share of education has fallen from 16.2 percent in 1973/74 to 9.4 percent
in 1984/85. (para 1.02) As a percent of the GDP, the share of education
is only 3.5 percent. This compares with 6.3 percent for Botswana, 7.9
percent for Swaziland and 5.9 percent for Tanzania. Malawi has
traditionally spent less on education than other countries in Africa. The
distribution of education recurrent expenditure by major sub-sectors in
1984/85 is as follows: primary level 40.6 percent, formal secondary 13.9
percent; Primary Teacher Training 3.8 percent; Technical/Vocational 1.4
percent; University 21.5 percent; Administration and general 13 percent.
The cost of education is shared between the parents and the government with
the parents bearing a relatively small portion of the costs. About 4.9
percent of the recurrent costs of education was recovered at all levels in
1984/85 through fees and other charges for services such as library usage
and examinations. Annual unit costs are provided in (Annex Table 4). The
overall financial issues for the sector are: (a) ensuring that available
resources are efficiently used; and (b) finding additional financial
resources to meet the planned expansion of servil-es especially at the
primary level. In the primary, the cost of producing graduates is high
owing to low internal efficiency - repetition rates are high (para. 2.18)
and there is a very high drop out rate. Only 63 percent of the teachers
are qualified; and teachers' salaries are low and need to be raised to
retain good teachers; untrained teachers need to be trained and
student:teacher ratios need to be lowered.
III. THE SECOND TEN-TEAK EDUCATION PLAN
(1985$I6-1994795)
Objectives
3.01      The government's Second Education Plan (1985/86 - 1994/95) and
the accompanying operational supplements outline its educational policies
and strategies for the decade. This Plan is more comprehensive both in
scope and objectives than its predecessor. It seeks to consolidate
educational policies so that a proper balance is achieved in the levels of
physical and human resources allocated to all levels of the education
system. As in the First Education Plan, the development of the system is
regarded as an integral part of a wider national policy of eradicating
poverty, promoting national identity and Integration, socio-economic
development and employment. In addition to the wider national objectives,
the stated objectives of the Plan include the commitment to: (a) provide



- 14 -
basic and enduring education to the entire school age population; (b)
increase access to quality education at all levels; (c) improve education
efficiency in terms of improved student flows; and (d) ensure that the
system fully satisfies the needs of the economy for skilled manpower.
Strategies and Program
(a) Access to Educational Opportunities
3.02      Primary Level: At the primary level, the government's objective
is to retain the current eight year primary school cycle and to ensure
that, by the end of the Plan period, 95 percent of the eligible age cohort
(6-10 years) are enrolled in standards 1-5, or 86 percent of the age group
(6-13) are enrolled in standards 1-8. In order to achieve this target, the
government projects that, by 1995, it would have to add 8,000 new
classrooms to its existing pool and upgrade 5,400 existing classrooms,
equivalent to the construction of 1,420 classrooms a year. These figures
were calculated on the basis of an updated school mapping exercise and a
projected number of available teachers from existing teacher training
colleges by 1995. Given recent implementation difficulties and the scarcity
of funds, the government's target will have to be drastically reduced.
3.03      At the Secondary Level, the Plan envisages an increase of about
50 percent in full-time secondary education (from about 22,000 to 34,000
students) and a tripling of enrollments in correspondence or other
post-primary education (from 14,000 to 44,000). Enrollments of this order
would represent 5 percent of the 14-17 age group in full-time courses, and
a further 8 percent mainly in correspondence education; the transition rate
from primary to full time secondary would rise from 9 percent to 11
percent, To achieve these enrollment targets would require: (a) the more
intensive use of existing secondary schools, which the government views as
feasible by increasing the student:teacher ratio from the present 21:1 to
25:1, and by double shifting where practicable.   Such measures are
expected to increase enrollments in these schools by about 3,500; (b) the
construction of the equivalent of 8,000 new full-time secondary school
places, preferably in the form of small secondary schools strategically
sited in line with the local secondary school age population and prevailing
facilities, as well as the construction of 31 new and seven replacement MCC
centers; (c) the provision of about 5,200 new boarding places at full time
secondary schools, for a total boarding accommodation of 20,400; equivalent
to 60 percent of the proposed full-time secondary enrollments; and (d) the
construction of 480 staff houses for secondary schools and 250 at MCC
centers. Although the current admission criteria are to be maintained, the
government proposes to increase the number of day students in existing
boarding schools by gradually implementing a policy of reserving boarding
places for students who are not from within the immediate vicinity of the
school.
3.04      Technical/Vocational Education: The government proposes to
increase the capacity of MOEC-administered technical/vocational training
establishments from 820 to 2,200. To achieve this target one new technical



- 15 -
college for 140 equivalent full-time students (EFTS) offering mainly craft
level and small scale business skills, and a new technical institute (420
EFTS) providing technician education are planned. Overall, technical/
vocational courses are planned to provide 440 technician level pleces,
980 staff training places, 400 commercial and business study places and 380
for assistant craftsman training and specialist skill courses. Evening
course enrollments, mainly in short specialist skill training, are expected
to increase to 8,400 (1,400 EFTS) by the mid-1990s.
3.05      University: The main development plans for the university provide
for a doublng-' enrollments to 4,000 EFTS by 1995, including 500 students
in an external studies department, and up to 200 in the proposed faculty of
medicine. The Plan for the medical school is being finalized for possible
donor funding. The Plan to establish a medical school needs to be
carefully considered given its recurrent cost implication. Enrollments
during the first half of the Plan will be constrained, and may reach 2,420.
(b)       Qualitative Improvements:
3.06      Primary Level: To improve the quality of education and subsequent
student achievement, the Government's strategies include: (a) increased
number of qualified teachers; (b) increased school inputs-instructional
materials, and textbooks; (c) curriculum revision and development including
preparation of supporting textbooks and instructional materials; (d)
expanded inspection system; and (e) revised test measurement system to
reflect changes in the curriculum etc.
(i)       Teachers: At the primary level, the supply of qualified teachers
would be increased by expansion of existing facilities and by provision of
additional teaclher training colleges. Three new teacher training colleges
financed under the Fifth IDA Education Project (Credit 1330-MAI) are under
construction. Other programs designed to improve quality of the teaching
force include in-service training of teachers, completion of its ongoing
review of the curriculum, including new courses in remedial education and
multi-grade teaching. More emphasis will be given to teaching method, and
to cumulative record and student assessment techniques. The current short
courses for headmcsters, inspectors and district education officers are to
be extended to primary teachers.  The quality improvement of the existing
teaching force will be achieved through full-time 'upgrading' courses for
all temporary (i.e. untrained) teachers, and by increased emphasis on
upgrading courses for qualified teachers. Quantitative and qualitative
improvements in school supervision, and in primary teacher education are
also planned. Finally, qualified teachers will be equitably distributed
between districts and regions, for which purpose an additional
accommodation for 10,500 teachers will be needed.
(ii)      Curriculum Development: At the primary level, the ongoing
curriculum revision effort will be intensified with emphasis on basic
skills. In addition, changes in lesson sequencing and subject ordering
will be designed to facilitate increased use of radio programs for primary



- 16 -
schools. The in-service training of primary school teachers and the
inspectorate assessment of teacher performance have the objective of
improving the overall quality of primary education. Other programs
designed to improve quality of education include increasing the level of
government subsidy at this level.
(iii)     Class Size: As indicated previously, the average class size and
pupil:teacher ratio in primary school in 1984/85 is 60, with many schools
exceeding this average. The ultimate goal is to achieve a class size of 50
by 1994/95.  The medium term goal is to achieve a class size of about 55.
Qualitative Improvements In primary education would only come about if the
planned strategies are accompanied by policies designed to correct existlng
distortions in the system. At present, 30 percent of the total
primary school places are occupied by overage pupils and underage
students. Without them, the pupil:teacher ratio would have fallen to
41:l. On equity grounds, the government cannot exclude the over age from
education facilities however it has been agreed that minimum entry age will
be 5 years. The Education Plan presents no policy or strategy on multiple
repetition. Without repeaters, the pupil:teacher ratio at the primary
level in 1983/84 would have fallen to 49.2:1*
(c) Cost Effectiveness
3.07 (i) Secondary Education: The student:teacher ratio of 21:1 is to be
increased to 25:1, through increased workload for teachers who would be
required to teach an average of 33 periods per week with a minimum of 27
contact periods. The government decision to provide full boarding in
government secondary schools and then subsidize the running costs of these
facilities adds to the high operational costs of secondary schools. There
are opportunities for lowering unit costs at the secondary level unlike the
primary, because of low student:teacher ratio and a large number of
students who are boarders (over 80 percent). The Government has recently
increased boardiltg fees to MK 105 but it needs to Increase it further to MK
135 so as to recover fully the recurrent cost of boarding. It also needs
to phase out construction of boarding schools altogither. Assurance to
phase out construction of new boarding facilitieb after the current program
of constructing 10 such schools by 1990/91 was receiv,4 during
negotiation. For technical/vocational education, economic class sizes will
be established (average 1:20; range 1:12 to 1:40); teachers' workloads will
be comparable to those in secondary schools. The current technical teacher
training programs, at the polytechnic and abroad will be intensified, and
the small technical/vocational teacher training program will be widened by
providing lower level courses for holders of the PSLC who are 16 years of
age. All courses will be provided free to students not in paid
employment. However, in the case of employees seeking specialist
technical/vocational courses leeding to higher salaries/promotions, the
full cost of the course will be chargeable to participants or their
sponsors.
(11) University: Over 22 percent of MOEC's budget is spent on an
institution - the university - with 1,900 full time students. Although the
graduating class of about 500 is insufficient to meet the changing needs of
of the economy for science and technical manpowers the requirements are to



- 17 -
reduce the high unit costs by increasing the number of students while
keeping the overall costs down and to increase the costs recovered through
student fees. This can be done by: (a) increasing the student:teacher
ratio (para 2.26); (b) reducing the administrative costs from 10.8 percent
of the budget to about 9 percent; (c) reducing salaries paid to staff
training abroad to the extent that maintenance is provided by fellowships;
(d) reducing travel and transport costs and (e) eliminating student
allowances.   The government's Plan indicates that the academic
staff:student ratio would rise to 1:10 in the science departments and 1:12
in the Arts and Humanities. Fees are currently paid by students at the
primary, secondary and the university. At the university, fees are set at
NK200 a year, but the sum of MK144 is given back to students in the form of
allowances.  The net fee is MK56.  This compares with boarding fees of MK60
and tuition fees of MK36 charged in 1984/85 at government boarding
secondary schools. The government needs to increase the user charges at
the university and university fee, net of living allowances, of MK200 has
been recommended starting 1988; and at the secondary, boarding fees need to
be increased to cover the full cost of boarding (parm. 5.04).
Financial Resource Requirements
3.08      To carry out the programs outlined in the Education Plan, the
Government proposed to invest about MK548.5 million during the ten year
period or MK54.9 million (US$ 30.0 million) per annum. This level of
investment is more than double the previous annual development budget of
MOEC, which in 1984/85 was about MK25 million. As already indicated (para.
2.27), in 1984/85, 9.4 percent of the total recurrent budget is devoted to
education. This is very low by African standards where the norm is around
17 percent. The Plan projects an increase in this proportion to between
13.5 percent and 15 percent by the end of the Plan period. The financial
viability of the Plan is assessed belew.
Financial Viability of the Plan: An Assessment
3.09      The bulk of educational financing in Malawi comes from the public
sources and this is dependent on the overall level of domestic resources.
The overall government expenditure in Malawi is estimated by Bank Staff to
grow in real terms at an average annual rate of 3.5 percent over the Plan
period. The critical issue is whether this growth is sufficient to finance
quantititative and qualitative improvements outlined in the Education
Development Plan. Given the projected growth in the overall public budget,
and under present plans to marginally increase cost recovery in secondary
and university levels, the important questions are whether the Government
will be able to finance the Education Plan's targets and what other
resources should be made available to education to carry out these
targets. One way to illustrate this is by measuring the impact on the
resources required for primary education expansion if the Plan's priority
targets - improved access to post-primary levels and improved quality at
the primary level - are to be met. The costs of meeting the Plan's
targets are shown in Table 3.1. At the post-primary levels, the emphasis



Table 3.1
Pubic 1Ecurrent R Iplitures 1984/85-1994/95
Goms  cp5dittre  Net             (1984/85)   Not P&ditures (Plan 1995)  NIt ft dt
M per student   IKper            Asotf  MR per                AsZf    mil Gr%.th  f
SbxOmt   'O  MEC Bid.   Sbhet  M'O0  M13C Bd.               htes
1) Primry                              24.2        19.2   16s283    41.5        25.6   35,840     46.7         8.2
2) Priumry Ibaciler Trainig           801.5        8D1.5    1,539     3.9      742.1    2,968      3.9         7.1
3) Fbmnal Seconidary                  264.4        244.4    5,141    13.1      215.0    8,098     10.6         4.6
4) 1abudi             (bO&aiw          53.6         39.3      606     1.5       39.3    1,719      2.2        11.0
5) vocatx7fana/1bx}sIknal           1,086.3        686.3      343     0.9      686.3    1,276      1.8        14.0
Post-S     y mand Od wr
6) Polytehodxc Board of Gbt.        2,787.8       2,350.2     891     2.3    2,350.2    3,572      4.7
7) University of  bdad              4,405.6       4,065.2   7,985    2D.3    3,502.1   14,045     18.3
8) Addustratim and Otblr               -             -      6,471    16.5       -       9,128     11.9
Totals: Prn1lry - (1)t(2)                                  17,822    45.4              38,808     50.6         8.1
boi-Pru.ry - (3)+(8)                                21,437    54.6              37,633     49.4         5.8
mm~AL                                                 39,259   100.0               76,641    100.0         6.9
Source:   Staff Ca1atd



- 19-
is on improved access, as reflected in the relatively high average annual
growth rates of enrollment. The efficiency measures of increasing
student-teacher ratios in formal secondary schools and the university will
lower unit recurrent expenditures slightly. To meet the Plan targets for
all levels, annual recurrent expenditures have to rise in real terms by an
average annual rate of 6.9 percent. Such a growth rate will impinge on
expansion of the whole system, especially since the Plan also calls for
qualitative improvements in primary schools (lower student teacher ratios,
improved teachar qualifications) that will increase unit public cost at that
level. The impact is shown in the following Table 3.2 under alternative
assumptions.
Table 3.2
The IMpact of Recurrent Budget Growtb on PriLmry Educatia Growtb
(Growtb rates over 1984185 - 1994/95)
Policy Assumptions                      All,Education            Primary Education
Share in  Annual   Annual  Annual           _  Gross
Govt.    Budget   Budget  Enroll  Actual   Enroll
Education           Cost         Quantity        Budget  Gr.Rate  Gr.Rate Gr.Rate  Enroll.   Rate
Budget Share       Recoverya/  kestrictions         X         %        Z        %               9
1994/95                                  1994,95
1. No Growth         Low    ,      Noneb/          9.4       3.4     -0.2    -3.6      587.671  29.0
2. Moderate Grow    Low            None           11.0       5.1      3.3      0.9$C    927,787  46.3
3. High Growth       Low           None           12.8       6.7      7.0      4.1   1,284,367  63.0
4. Moderate Growth  High           None           11.0       5.1      5.5      3.2   1,121.792  55.3
5. High Growth       High          1ane           12.8       6.7      8.3      5.5   1,443,130  70.5
6. Moderate Growth  Low          Univ, and        11.0       5.1      5.7      3.5   1,142,693  56.6
Polytechnic enroll.
7. High Growth       Low   constrained to grow  12.8         6.7      8.7      5.8   1,495,934  74.0
at 4% p.a.
(Actual 1984/85)                                  (9.4)                              (847,895) (57.0)
Source: Bank Staff Calculations: Row 7 extracted from Annex B Table.
a/ Low cost recovery means: at secondary level, boarding fees 1-crease to K105 p .
at university level, student allowances eliminated. High cost recovery means, in
addition to low cost recovery levels, tuition at secordary quadruples and, at
university tuition is raised by MK200 per year.
b/ Univ. (72 p.a.) & Polytechnic (14.9% p.a.) grow as plined.
3.10      The most recent proje. tion of real growth in GDP is an average
annual rate of 3.5 percent. The growth in the overall government expenditure
is expected to be the same rate. This means that, by 1995, overall
government revenues will be in the neighborhood of MK588 million, from
present levels to MK417 million.  iTis rate of hu4g6,tary growth will be
sufficient to meet the Plan's targets for quantitative expansion and
qualitative improvement, given current measures to lower unit cost and to
increase cost recovery, only if the o,hare cf education in the overall budget
rises. If educatior expenditure grows only at the same. rate as the overall



/                    -~~~~~~~20-
~'etueAafit bodget, and thus just maintains its share at 9.4 percent;
rdceiting t~e Education Plan's goals regarding improved access at
post-primary levels and quality Improvements at the primary level would
14sve ,to be tridif led. Gross enrollment rates would drop to 29 percentage
poinits. It is apparent that the present financing arrangements, even with
measures to slightly increase cost-recovery in secondary and higher
iducation and to lower unit costs at higher levels, are insufficient to
,' eet the government's educational goals over the next decade. The
g6vernment. can alter present financing arrangements,, give up on some of the
goats, or do some of both. Options can be ranked according to economic
critgria rnf efficiency and equity. Three options are considered below:
'&~`Increasing education's budget share: The impact of increasing the
budgetary share oft education can Be- measured through the expansion In
,,primary education that could be financed if other goals of the Plan
viere met. A moderate growth in education's share from 9.4 percent to
t 1 percent of the government budget would enable primary enrollment
ttk 4ee (at I percent per annum) but gross enrollment ratios would
still fall from 57 percent to 46 percent. As already indicated (Para
1'.02), the social sectors in recent years have been severely
constrained because of massive Increment in debt service which in
1984/85 atccunted for 31.7 percent of the total recurrent budget.5/
(In 197918b, its share of the budget was 21.1 percent). With the7
virtual pess/ation of external commercial borrowing and the
constrained levels of domestic borrowing,, debt payments should grow
~at a much lower rate, freeing up resources for education, health and
-'/       ~~agriculture.  This indicates that it would be possible to increase
the shares of. recurrent budget allocated to Agriculture,, Education,,
and Health and generate a recurrent budget surplus, while allowing
for some overall real growth of outlays for other sectors. Achieving
such a result will however,, require strict expenditure control by
Government. That the Malawian government is committed to increasing
expenditures on education Is evident by the increasing share of
*educatiern in t-he Development budget. During the last 5 years,,
inwestment in education grew in real terms at 5,1 percent per annum.
The recurrent cost implication of the investment is now being felt in
that the share of education of the recurrent budget In 1985/86 was
10.4 prerent, It should therefore be possible for Education's share
of-the budget to increase substantially. A high growth in the
budgetary share of education from 9.4 percent to 12.8 percent would
allosw primary school enrollment to expand at 4.1 percentt per annum, a
rate that is close to the historical growth rate and that will allow
gross enr6llment ratios to reach 63 percent. This will mean an
increase in the gross enrollment rate of six percentage points over a
10-year period, which Is below Plan estimates.
(b)   Greater cost recovery:  At present, the proposed increases $n cost
recover7y, already -reflected In Table 3.2 calculations,, are minimal.
At the secondary level, the current fees Include MK60 for boarding
and NK30 tuition per annum.   The fee increase proposed in the Plan
- would raiLse boarding fees to MIK1O5 per annum,, while keeping tuition
charges unchanged. These fee increase would imply an increase in
'a~is appears unusually high because amortization payments
dare included in the.recurrent budget instead of in the capital
*budget.-0



- 21 -
average collected revenue from MKl9.50 to MK23.1 per secondary level
student, or about 8.8 percent of recurrent expenditures.6/ At the
university level, an average of MK200 from tuition and boarding fees
is collected from each student. However, the net payments of the
average student are negligiblc because of student allowances. These
allowances consist of personal allowances of MKl44 per student, plus
other allowances for settling in, books and stationery, and travel.
Over all allowances per student amount on the average to MK230. If
student allowances are eliminated as proposed, 1.ayments of students
would amount to MK200 per annum per student. To ensure that no one
is denied entry into the University because of inability to pay fees,
the Government intends to establish a loan scheme for such students.
A Plan for implementation of a student loan scheme which will be
administered by the University will be prepared and presented to the
Association by December 1, 1987. The Plan will spe'll out in detail,
the administrative procedures including repayment period and interest
rate and contain details of the student loan agreement. The
submission of the Plan will be a condition of disbursement of the
revolving loan scheme to be established under the Credit. During
negotiation, agreement was reached with the Government  that starting
in 1988 university fee net of living allowances will be MK200 and to
make subsequent adjustments to maintain the real value of this fee.
Further resource mobilization through user fees at secondary and
university levelL iuld assist the government to meet Plan targets,
particularly if ec -'>on share in the overall budget did not grow to
12.8 percent.7/  A-   illustration of the fiscal implications of
cost recovery, suppose that the education share in the overall budget
grows only moderately to 11 percent by the end of the Plan period;
if per student fee levels were to increase to MK128 in secondary and
MK633 in university -- amounts which would still result in excess
demand (see Annex B2 for justification) - primary student
expenditures could grow at 5.5 percent per annum. As shown in row 4
of Table 3.2 this would enable present gross enrollment rates to be
maintained at primary levels, while meeting all of the qualitative
improvement and increased accessibility goals of the Development
Plan. If this "high' rate of resource mobilization is combined with
a growth in the education budgetary share to 12.8 percent, the
expansion in primary enrollment will approach the Plan estimates.
Primary school enrollment will then grow at an average annual growtb
rate of 5.5 percent per year and will lead to a gross enrollment rate
of 71 percent by 1995.
6/ Over the whole system, current fees charged per student do not equal
collections per student. One reason is that only 8 percent of all
secondary students boarded at government dormitories. Another is teat
tuition collection rates were about 49 percent. In FY85, tuition
revenues from secondary schools were MK14.7 per student or about 49
percent of the MK30 stated tuition.
7/ According to Annex X, a fee level of up to MK219 (computed to the
present fee revenue per student of MK19) can be sustained at secondary
level without adversely affecting enrollment at that level, because of
excess demand. At the university level, it is also estimated larger fee
levels can be sustained, given excess demand (5 applicants for every
entry level position).



- 22 -
(c)   Restricting post-secondary enrollment: To meet the Plan's goal of a
gross primary enrollment rate over 80 percent, an alternative to
increasing resource mobilization is to restrict enrollment growth
rates at post-secondary level. Given the government's policy to
increase access to the secondary levels, and given that the rates of
return to tertiary education are the lowest among all levels, options
to rsstrict enrollment at the university and the Polytechnic Board of
Governors are considered. Suppose that enrollment expansion at
university end the Polytechnl^ were restricted to grow at 4 percent
per year, as opposed to 5.5 percent and 15 percent, respectively, as
planned. Such a measure combined with a growth in education
budgetary share to 12.8 percent, would allow primary school
enrollment to grow at an average annual growth rate of 5.8 percent.
By the end of the Plan Period, gross enrollment rates would increase
to 73 percent of the school-age population in primary. Thus, this
option would also allow the Plan targets regarding primary education
to be met, at the cost of tertiary level enrollment.
3.11      Given the political sensitivity to increasing fees at the
post-primary level beyond the current proposal, and the need to
substantially increase access to primary education, the preferred
alternative is to restrict for the moment enrollment growth at university
to four percent per annum and to permit primary school enrollment to growth
at the rate of 5.8 percent per annum. For this to happen, the education
share of the government budget would have to rise to 11.3 percent by
1990/91 and 12.8 percent by the end of the Flan Period. This would imply
that education budget would have to grow in real terms at an average annual
rate of 6.7 percent. During negotiation, agreement was reached that
education share of budget will rise to about 11 percent by 1991 (Annex A
attachment 1).
Economic Viability
3.12      Another issue is whether the investment Package proposed in the
Plan is economically efficient. This can be assessed by comparing unit
economic costs of alternative designs within any level of education. These
costs can also be compared to a rough approximation of educational benefits
based on salary differentials to enable calculation of rates of return.
Table 3.3 presents the unit economic costs of alternative design
configurations of investments in various le.'els of education. The Plan has
two main effects on unit costs: (a) The Plan will make new investments in
expanding primary and secondary education. These investments propose new
designs in building and equipping schools and thus affect capital costs.
(b) The Plan also mandates changes in the way that schools, colleges and
the university operate. In primanry education, the objective is to improve
quality. In secondary and higher education, the objective is mainly to
improve the efficiency of delivery (i.e., lower cost without affecting
output). These changes have effects on recurrent costs. The implications
of these changes on unit economic costs are those rows in Table 3.3
labelled 'Plan". The unit costs of specific Plan investments are compared
with those of the status quo -- the most recently undertaken by IDA and
AfDB financed project in Malawi. The status quo costs are labelled 'Base".



- 23 -
Table 3.3
Unit Economic Cost of Various
Levels of Education, 1984/85 Kwacha per Student
Recurrent   Annualized    Non-Fee    Economic
Expenditures Capital Cost Private Cost   Cost
Primary
Base (AfDB Project)        19.20         93.26         301.29      414.96
Plan                       25.60         42.08         301.29      368.98
Formal Secondary
Base (IDA-V)              264.00      1,083.24         731.53    2,078.77
Plan                      236.00        734.77         731.53    1,702.30
Mal.Cor.Coll.(MCC)          53.60        227.50         731.53    1,012.63
Prim.Teach.Trug(PTTC)
Base (IDA-V)             801.50       2,137.88       1,225.60    4,164.98
Plan                      742.10      2,137.88       1,225.60    4,105.58
University of Malawi
Base (IDA-V)           4,405.60       3,404.75       1,225.60    9,035.95
Plan                   4,071.40       3,404.75       1,225.60    8,701.75
Source: Bank Staff calculations.
3.13      Within primary and secondary education, the proposed designs of
school facilities would lead to unit costs lower than the status quo. In
primary education, there would be an increase in unit recurrent cost
because of qualitative improvements (mainly due to the lowering of
student/teacher ratios). However, this is offset by a lower unit capital
cost, as compared with the last investment financed by the AfDB. The lower
capital cost is due to a modified self help program. Rather than rely
entirely on communities for labor and materials as in Credit 910-MAI,
communities would in this case provide only bricks. Other building
materials will be bulk purchased and small experienced local contractors
would carry out the actual construction. As a result, the Plan would lower
unit cost by 17 percent, as compared to unit costs of classrooms built
under Credit 910-MAI or AfDB Loan. In formal secondary education, the Plan
would lower unit capital cost and recurrent cost are expected to be



- 24 -
slightly lowered, because of design changes and lower student teacher
ratios. For other types and levels of education, there are not expected to
be any implications for unit capital cost, because the Plan will not
finance any new expansion. However, there are savings on recurrent costs
because of proposed efficiency measures.
3.14      When compared to primary education, capital costs per student for
various forms of seoondary education (formal secondary or PTTC) arF high.
For primary education, annualized capital costs are 18 percent of all
economic costs; for formal secondary, they make up 61 percent of all
economic costs; and for PTTC, 63 percent. To put these ratios into
perspective, the share of capital in all economic costs for secondary
schools in Tanzania is 6 percent and for Colombia is 4 percent. The
annualized capital costs of secondary education in Malawi are high
primarily because of the role of boarding and staff housing. This is shown
in the table below (Table 3.4) of the percentage of capital costs (civil
works, furnishings and equipment) that are devoted to various uses.
Secondary school designs from the previous expansion of the system (IDA-V)
indicate that the percentage of all capital costs devoted to boarding and
staff housing amounted to 61 percent for formal secondary and primary
teacher training. Building only day-secondary schools, rather than boarding
schools, would lower this percentage to 23 percent.
Table 3.4
Percent of Boarding and Staff Housing in Capital Costs
Staff        Communal/
Boarding      Housing      Academic
Primary                               0            36            64
Secondary Day Formal 1/               0           33             67
Secondary Boarding Formal (IDA V)   32            29             39
MCC (IDA V)                           0            24            76
PTTC (IDA V)                         32            30            38
Source: Bank staff reports
1/ Including site development



- 25 -
3.15      The appropriateness of per student boarding cost can be assessed
by comparing it to how much households spend on housing on the
average.8/ Boarding costs per student are high: they are at least half of
median housing expendltures per household; or about two to three times
median housing expenditures per adult-equivalent, even under the
conservative assumption that there are 3 adult-equivalents per household.
The latter number would rise if household sizes exceed 3 adult-equivalents,
as is likely. Costs of providing secondary schools would be greatly
reduced if boarding element is eliminated.
3.16      Rates of return: The ratios of unit costs between different
levels of post-primary education and primary education indicate that the
unit economic cost of educating a student in the formal secondary system is
seven times that of educating a student in the primary system. However,
for the MCC, the difference is only three times; for PTTC, sixteen
times; for the University of Malawi, thirty-five times. These cost
differentials between levels of schooling can be justified if they are
offset by differences in benefits. One way to measure these benefits is by
wage differentials. The comparison can be made using the so-called
"short-form" of the rate of return analysis.9/ Social rates of return to
different levels of education in Malawi are Thown in Annex Table 5.
According to this table, it is economical to invest in all types of
education in Malaiwi.
A Realisable Investment Plan
3.17      In view of the foregoing analysis, the capital cost requirement
of the Education Plan has been recalculated to bring it in line with the
expectations regarding recurrent resource availability.  The underlying
assumption is that the Plan targets in all post primary institutions except
the University would be met. On the assumption that education's share of
the Government's recurrent resources increases to 12.8 percent by the end
of the Plan period, primary school enrollment is expected to grow at the
rate of 5.8 percent per annum. Enrollment growth at the University is to be
constrained to 4 percent per annum. If because of limited resources, a
revision of the investment plan becomes necessary, these cuts should be
8/ A rough rule of thumb would be that households spend 15-20% of
monthly income on housing (or about MK42-56 in 1984/85 Kwacha).
Median household Income in 1981 was MK200:
1983/85 MK
Median monthly housing expenditure
(1) Per household (HH)                             42-56
(2) Per adult equivalent (3 per HH)                14-19
Monthly boarding costs (per student):
(3) Recurrent (RC)                                 14.50
(4) RC + Annualized Capital                        43.49
Boarding costs as multiple of housing expenditure
(5) Per household                                 .76 - 1.03
(6) Per adult equivalent                           2.31 - 3.09
Annualized boarding costs per month are computed as               .32
share of boarding in capital cost times MK1,083    per year annualized
original cost divided by 12 -MK28.99
- total boarding costs are 14.50 + 28.80 - 43.39
9/ See G. Psacharopoulos, 1980: Returns of Education on updated
international comparison - Education and Income by Timothy King - Editor
- World Bank Staff Working Paper No. 402 - July 1980.



- 26 -
directed at levels of education other than the primary level particularly
at the university and vocational and technical training (subsectors
traditionally impacted by economic trends) in order to ensure that the 5.8
percent rate of growth of primary is maintained throughout the Plan
period. The revised Investment Plan is presented in Annex, Table 6 and
has in principle been approved by the Government. It is estimated that the
total investment package for the ten year period will be about MR349.2
million in current prices.  The revised estimate is about 63.3 percent of
the proposals in the Education Plan (para. 3.08). The proposed expenditure
for the first five years of the Plan period (1985-1990) is presented in
Table 3.5 below:
Table 3.5
Education Development Expenditure by Sector
1985-1990 in Current Prices (MK Million)
Sector               1985/86       1986/87        1987/90     Total
Actual    Revised Estimate  Estimate
1*. Primary Level
Primary Schools              0.99          0.1           57.38       58.47
Primary T. Training          5.05          5.29          14.3        23.64
Instructional Materials       -             -             5.12        5.12
2. Secondary Level
Formal Sec. Schools          5.57          5.01          44.44       55.02
Malawi Corr. College         2.00          3.01           6.80       11.81
Technical Voc.               1.00          1.27             .38       2.65
3. Tertiary Level
University                   2.06          2.44           2.21        4.71
Polytechnic incl. Mal.
College of Accountancy    4.05           4.14           2.56       10.75
4. Institutional Development
Management Improvement
including inspectorate
and Research                0.50          0.50          10.78       11.78
Examinations                  -             -             2.07        2.07
Total                       22.22         21.75         146.04      190.01
Source: Calculated from Government documents.
The estimated expenditure of MK 146 million for the remaining three years
of this phase is distributed as follows: 52.6 percent on expanding access
and improving quality of primary education, 35.3 percent on expanding
access to secondary education, 8.8 percent on instltutional development,
3.3 vercent on tertiary education. The distribution of expenditure is in



- 27 -
line with Government priorities which emphasizes improving the quality of
and access to primary education and expanding access to secondary
education. Commitments (including the proposed IDA Sector Credit) have
been secured for about 93.7 percent of the proposed investment during this
phase. The Government expects to fund through community self-help
programs the remaining primary schools estimated at MK12 million. During
negotiation, it was agreed that any changes in the investment program would
be with IDA's concurrence.
IV. POLICY ACTION PROGRAM
Objectives
4.01      To address the issues described in Chapter II and to meet the
objectives of the revised Ten Year Education Plan as described in Chapter
III, the Government has prepared a series of policy actions (Attachment 1
of Annex A). During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it
will carry out these actions according to the agreed schedule.The proposed
credit would support the implementation of the first stage of this
program. The objectives of the policy package are to address these issues
and to make education more cost effective, more equitable and more
consistent with the country's medium term development goals. The Policy
package and the proposed Credit would assist in this process by:
(a) improving equity of education by increasing the share of
education resources devoted to primary education;
(b) improving education efficiency in terms of improved student
flows especially at the primary level with a major increase
in the number of students entering and completing primary
education;
(c) containing the growth of public expenditures on education
through reduction in unit costs at post primary levels and
increased cost recovery measures especially at the secondary
and university levels;
(d) improving access to secondary education through introduction
of a shift system and by increasing the number of day
schools.
4.02      The proposed policy action program constitutes a serious attempt
by the government to tackle the qualitative issues at the primary level, to
provide more resources to primary education and to improve the overall
management of education. Many students who enter primary school repeat
each grade two or three times. The new strategy will (a) limit the number
of repeaters in each grade and the number of times each grade, especially
grade eight is repeated; (b) through development of new teaching
techniques, reduce the number of dropouts and substantially increase school
inputs at this level; and (c) starting the 1987/88 academic year set the
minimum entry age to primary education at 5 years or over. The government



- 28 -
has deliberately sought to build consensus for the Policy program by using
the forum of the National Advisory Council on Education with membership
drawn from parents, teachers and politicians to discuss the most
controversial policies in the program such as repetition policy, cost
recovery issues, and merger of examinations systems. The government has
also set up a monitoring and evaluation ,ommittee to ensure that the goals
of the action program are closely adhered to. To date, several significant
measures have been carried out (Annex A attachment 1).
4.03      Policy Action Program: Specific policy actions to be undertaken
during the plan period are presented in the Statement of Education Policy
(Annex A) and its attachments. Progressive attainment of the quantitative
goals of the plan would result from a combination of actions to be taken
during this first phase as well as those that would follow at a later
phase. The actions already taken and those to be taken to achieve the Plan
objectives are shown in Attachment I of Annex A and summarized below in
para. 4.04.  At the same time, the government would develop a number of new
pedagogical programs such as new guidelines for assessment of primary
students and a revised and consolidated primary curriculum under the Plan
to achieve the specific quality objectives while reducing unit costs of
education especially at the post primary institutions. The policies
proposed, such as increased user charges, would increase the proportion of
expenditure recovered from 4.6 percent to almost 7.6 percent over the
system as a whole. These are to be complemented by other measures designed
to control unit costs, such as increase in teacher load at the secondary
level, improved student staff ratio at the University; intensive use of
existing physical facilities at the secondary and higher education levels
and improved education planning process.
4.04      The Policy Action Program is summarized as follows:
1. Quality Improvement
(a)       Primar  Level: Curriculum reform, Increased supply of teaching
materials, improved physical facilities and improved student/teacher,
and student/classroom ratios, c4tablishment of new guidelines for student
assessment and cumulative record keeping and remedial teaching and
limitation on multiple repetition. To bo 'ter the policy of limiting
repetition especially at standard 8, a review of the PSLE will be completed
by March 1988 and an improved terminal examination would be introduced at
the end of 1988.
(b)       Primary Teacher Education: Revision of curriculum to emphasize
teaching methods, remedial educatio`n and student assessment techniques.
Provide in-service training courses for untrained teachers beginning first
quarter of 1987.
(c)       Secondary Level: Qualitative improvements proposed at this level
include the revision of curricula, and qualitative and quantitative
Improvements In teaching staff. With regard to curriculum revision, the
established curriculum subject panels will be enlarged to include MCC and
University representation. Their task will be two-fold: (i) to provide in
depth analyses of examination results, to review present curricula with a
view to reducing the number of subjects offered (currently 21) in secondary
school programs and by January 1987 to determine the range of subjects to
be included; and (11) to revise as appropriate, by December 1988, curricula



- 29 -
for the core subjects in particular for mathematics, science and
agriculture. As for Improvements in teaching staff, the problems of
shortfalls in the number of secondary school teachers, and the mismatch
between supply and demand for specific subject specialists will be
addressed by (i) preparing a 5-year projection of teacher requirements by
subject for use by the university in determining enrollment targets; (ii)
reviewing annually, teacher projections through the established tripartite
review process (University, MOEC and MIE); (iii) ensuring that the level of
secondary teachers from the University set during these reviews is
maintained; and (iv) In the short run, existing vacancies, in particular,in
English, Mathematics and Science, will be filled through external
recruitment. As regards teachers for the MCC centers, all tutors in theie
centers whose educational background and professional training are
Inappropriate to their role would be replaced by suitably qualified and
trained teachers.
(d)       Technical/Vocational Education: A review of admission procedures
will be completed by December 1987, and the proposed construction of
additional technical vocational establishments re-examined in the light of
prevailing industrial manpower requirements. Meanwhile the more economic
use of existing capacity is planned by the introduction of foundation
courses for PSLE graduates, by an expansion of evening classes, and by
establishing economic classes (average 1:20) and teacher workloads
commensurate with those in secondary schools.
2. Expanded Access to the System
(a)       Primary: Implementation of an expanded self help primary school
construction program to achieve the planned enrollment growth targets of
5.8 percent annum.
(b)       Secondary: Substantial investment in new secondary schools
especially day schools and intensive use of existing facilities through
shift syitem (for which a feasibility study and a school mapping plan to
determine the viability of day secondary schools are to be undertaken) and
of staff to achieve an enrollment ratio of 8 percent by 1994/95.
(c)       Vocational/Technical Education: Full utilization of existing
physical facilities -- presently 78 percent use factor. (para. 2.24)
3. Institutional Development
Required actions include: preparation of a comprehensive staff
development program, completion of a comprehensive study of management of
MOEC, strengthening of the Inspectorate, the planning, research and
evaluation capacity of MOEC, and the management of MCC, setting up of a
monitoring and evaluation committee, and restructuring the Examination
system.
4. Cost effectiveness:
Improving the cost effectiveness of education at post primary
levels, full utilization of physical capacity at the University and
increased parental contribution to the cost of education at post primary
levels (para 3.10(c)). The Government intends to establish a loan scheme
for students. The initial capital will be put in an interest bearing
account. The loans will be financed out of the interest from the capital.



- 30 *
Impact of Policy Changes
4.05      In addition to Improving several dimensions of education quality,
the proposed policy measures are expected to have a significant
quantitative impact on enrollment at both the primary and secondary levels,
on promotion rates, and indices of education resource use. As shown in
Table 4.1, Primary enrollment in public schools is expected to increase by
5.8 percent per annum over the Plan Period compared to 1.7 percent if the
current system persists. The main difference is in the number of new
intakes into standard 1 and in the number of students who remain in
school.  New intakes into standard 1 are expected to increase at the rate
of 5.1 percent per annum as against the historical rate of 3 percent.
Dropout rates. and repetition rates are expected to drop considerably from
the base year levels of 34.2 percent and 18.3 percent respectively.
Table 4.1
Summary indicators of estimated enrollment impact of
Proposed Policy chaas at the primary level
1984185 - 1994/95
(Public Schools only)                     Population and enrollment in thousands
A - based on current trends and policies
B - with Policy changes
Enrollment                  Base year             1990/91               1994/95
1984/85       A"~TB                   A            B
Standard 1                  217.2        253.5       253.5      294.5       294.5
(of which new intake)      (177.5)      (214.7)    (243.3)    (240.6)    (291.6)
Standard 2                  145.0        139.6       193.7      166.7       250.0
Standard 3                  118.0        109.2       161.1      123.6       227.5
Standard 4                   88.9         85.2       131.1       95.0       187.8
Standard 5                   69.9         70.2       107.3       77.1       157.4
Standard 6                   68.5         74.1        96.5       79.3       144.7
Standard 7                   54.7         74.2        82;2       74.0       121.6
Standard 8                   85.8        107.5       83.9        99.3       112.5
Total                       848.0        913.6      1109.3     1003.6      1496.0
Average annual growth
rate (1985-1995)                                                   1.7       5.8
6 - 13 population          1564.1       1843.0      1843.0     2079.1      2079.1
Average annual growth
rate (5-19) (1985-1995)                                            3.1        3.1
Enrollment ratio (gross)a/  54.2          50.3        62.1       49.7        74.1
Average annual growth
rate (1985-1995)                                                 -0.9         3.2
Average growth rate of
intake Into Standard 1                                            3.0         5.6
a/ Public Schools only
Source - Bank staff calculations. Detailed projection are given in the Working
Paper.



- 31 -
Significant improvements in student flows at all standards at the primary
levels are also expected. The repeater rates for Standards 6 and 7 are to
be reduced substantially from 11.2 and 13.5 percent to 5 percent for both
by 1990/91. The most significant improvement is expected to be made at
Standard 8 where the repeater level is expected to be reduced to 5 percent
of the cohort by 1994/95 compared to the historical level of 38.5 percent
because of development of a better system of measuring achievement,
improved transition rate to the secondary level of education brought about
by expanded access at this level. Enrollment in formal secondary school is
expected to grow at the rate of 6 percent per annum, while enrollment at
MCC is expected to grow at 11 percent per annum. Growth of enrollment at
the University is to be constrained during the Plan period to 4 percent per
annum.
4.06. The feasibility of the enrollment targets has been established in the
context of the physical and human resources now available end likely to be
available throughout the implementation of the Plan. Although enrollment
targets especially at the primary level are expected to be met in the short
run, improvements in classroom/pupil ratio would require major efforts on
the part of the government in mobilizing self help efforts to construct
classrooms, especially in areas with minimal classroom space and in rural
areas with sparse enrollment. Improvement in teacher/pupil ratio will come
about through an expanded teacher training program and better utilization
and mobilization of teachers. Once these policy measures which have been
agreed with government are in place, it will De important to reassess the
experience with them periodically. This reassessment has been built into
the Program by the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation committee
under the Planning Section of MOEC. Phase 1 of the Policy Action Program
covers the period ending 1990/91. During this first phase to be supported
by the proposed Credit, the major policy action programs would be in place:
the reorientation of the education system would be established and
supported by the reallocated shares of education resources; a series of
measures would be put into place to improve the efficiency of resource use
including teachers at each level. Education programs would be developed
during this first phase for new pedagogical efforts (remedial reading,
upgrading of unqualified teachers, multigrade teaching) and for further
cost efficiency measures which would be continued in the Second Phase.
Thus, the main impact of the policy action program during the first phase
would be on enrollments and costs and student flows and better assessment
of student quality. During the second phase of the Education Plan, the new
pedagogical activities would be introduced and further improvements in
education flow and use of resources would be made.
4*07      Costs of education under current trends and with policy changes
have been estimated through detailed projections of costs of educational
inputs necessary to accommodate projected enrollment at each level. These
costs are presented in Table 4.2 for illustrative purposes only. Total
government recurrent expenditures are expected to increase in real terms at
the rate of 3.5 percent (para 3.09). MOEC recurrent expenditure would grow
at the average annual rate of 6.9 percent (Table 3.2). Projected recurrent



- 32 -
expenditures on primary education in 1994/95 are more than twice as high
under the Program than without it. In the absence of policy change, the
share of the University in the recurrent budget would by 1994/95 be 22.4
percent compared to 13.5 percent with the proposed policy changes. In the
absence of any policy changes, recurrent expenditures of the University
would amount to 68 percent of recurrent expenditures on primary education.
Bank staff have examined these proposals and are satisfied that the
proposed composition and evolution of these expenditures under the Policy
Program are appropriate to the country's needs and constraints. The
program would lead to a marked reallocation of recurrent education
expenditures away from the University towards basic education.
Tble 4.2
P e -~a                : !!!fd  _hO   ad Odto
Aitixt picy dPt,                     Duwith p-icy 4 am
lewel  1986/85   1990/91             1994/95             1990/91             1994/95
~~wl            Aunt      Sr~~~~~pawt  !iXt    Strwn   AMC"      Srmt miet          Ftroso
frlrsq bm                   16,283.3    41.5   17,809.1    35.5   19,269.0    32.6    2SX0.2    47.5    37,436.6    49.7
pginy  E      anhz           1,38.8      3.9    3,342.1     6.7    3,342.1'    5.7     3,037.6    5.6      6,040.      .
MFw. Smantu7  atim          5,141.3     13.1    7293.0    14.5    9,07.4    15.6       6,353.8    11.7     8,097.7    1
ISIa *n"Ponwene _1            606.6      1.5    1,123.0     2.3    1,719.4     2.9     1,02D.4     1.9     1,719.4    2.3
lmdm1cah/ imt1a1              343.2     0.9      687.2      1.2    1,376.2    2.3       687.2     1.3      1,376.2    1.8
Myoitaldmc aadb1 ant.         890.7      2.3    2,049.6     4.1    3,512.3     5.9     1,020.4    2.0      1,318.5    1.8
Udiveut9                    7,985.2     18.5    9,945.2    19.8   13,231.7    22.4     8,700.6    16.0    10,181.2    13.5
Other tIL AM_uottat1o       6,471.0     16.5    5,929.7     2.3    7,476.1    12.6     785.5    14.1       9,128.0    12.0
wotim  a port of tot
ant. I=r     4     _ meadlture           9.4                9.4               10.0                11.0               12.8
*te: Snullmt p,jectloan  used for dte alcW*lg  for levels othr then
pW=y prJected to gm at fte      rate for asomimY MCC and V/Tedetial
for A aed B. Far Udvtidty and Fblytedmdc azolnmut for 8 atw  to giw
at 4% per mm, A       plan entolbt tazt will be tet. A autt  that
amutwt ans at Oet  level vul be oxwtant thma.



- 33 
V*  s  R-POM.CRDIT
Rationale and Objectives
5.01      Education policy discussions with the government have been based
upon the 1984 Financing and 1fficieucy of Education (Report No. 4894-MAI)
and have included MOEC as well as ot'her related Ministries. As part of
this effort, the Bank Group has also assisted in financing the preparation
of the Second Ten Year Education Plan, 1985-1995 (Credit 1123-MAl). This
Plan, and the Policy Action Program which mserged from this process embody
recommendations made by the Bank. As a next step, the proposed Credit
would support the government in carrying out. the Policy Action Program
during the first phase (1985-1990) of its Ten-Year Plan. The principal
objectives of the Policy Action Plan and the investment Plan are to provide
more equitable acess to education, to make the sector more cost effective
and responsive to Malawi's medium term development needs (para. 4.01). The
Policy Action Program, including a time table of measures taken recently
and those scheduled over the next year is detailed in Annex A.
5.02      The 1985-90 investment Plan is in line with the above-mentioned
objectives and has been fully reviewed and agreed with the Bank. The
Government has demonstrated adequ~ate capability to appraise individual
investments and carry them out. With fDink assistance and after five
projects, MOEC has satisfactory capacity to do this, including adherence to
Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. Although MOBC does not have
in-house architectural capacity, it draws upon groups of Malawian
architectural consulting firms, with good results in the past. Based on
agreed criteria (Annex C), MOEC has prepared adequate appraisal reports of
the major sub-investment items in the 1985-1990 Plan (5.24).
First Phase of the Ten Year Education Plan (1985-1990)
5.03      The total investment requirement of the Government for the Ten
Year Education Plan period is about MK 349.2 mi3lion (US$174.6 mlllion in
current prices) (para. 3.17). For the first five year phase of this period
(1985-1990), the pian is for an investment of about MK 190.0 million (US$95
million) of which MK 146 million (US$73.0 million) investments pertain to
the last three years of this phase (1987-1990), the time slice covered by
the proposed Credit. Table 5.1 shvws the related financing plan.



-34 -
Table 5.1
Financing Plan
Education Investment Plan, 1985-1990
(Current Prices MK Million)
1986/87
1985/86    Revised      1987/1990
Donor                Actual      Estimate     Estimate        Total
Third IDA Project          0.71         0.08           -            0.79
Fourth IDA Project          6.13        1.97           13.5        21.6
Fifth IDA Project           8.05       11.34           16.7        35.56
ODA ongoing                 1.06        2.25           0.38         3.68
USAID                       1.42        2.05           0.56         4.03
AfDB 1st Project            0.49        0.05            -           0.54
AfDB 2nd Project             -           -            28.00        ?8.00
Government                 4.36         4.01          16.43        24.8
Financing Gap                -           -             71.00       71.00
of which:
(IDA Credit Proposed)        -            -          (54.00)      (54.00)
(ODA Gran. Proposed)         -            -          ( 5.00)      ( 5.00)
(Govt. through aelf-help)    -            -          (12.00)      (12.00)
I:          Total              22.22       21.75          146.04      190.01
Financing commitments for 1985-90 total MK 119.01 million (US$59.5
milJion), 6i 62.6 percent.  To complete the program, additional MK71
-illion (US$35.5 million) is required. To close this gap, an IDA credit of
about SDR 21.4.-million (US$27 million) is proposed. ODA will contribute
an additioral US$2.7 million, and the Government would provide about US$ 6
million through community self-help labor and national budgetary resources.
The 1987-90 Inveftments To Be financed under the Credit
5.4s      The criterion used to select items to be financed under the IDA
Cre4Lt is the extpt to which they support the priorities and strategies of
the.'overnment: viz (1) expansion of access to secondary level; (2)
expansion of access to and quality improvement at the primary level; and
(3) imp;coved education management. The agreed investment components meet
this criterion and comprise:
(1) Expansion of Secondary Education: The proposed Credit would
f.nace improved access to formal secondary education and the better
qtailty and maiagement of correspondence education.  The unacceptably low
transition rste from primary to secondary education would be improved by
the convtrwsction, furnishing and equipping of two new boarding secondary



- 35 -
schools and one new day secondary school (1440 student places) and the
conversion of three existing MCC censters to double use as day and night
secondary schools (1440 student places). With regard to the formal
boarding secondary schools, they would be sited so as to attract day
students, and boarding at these schools would be strictly limited. As for
the three school conversions, these would be located in populous urban
zones where locally resident students would be sufficient to make boarding
facilities unnecessary.  In these three schools, the night students would
benefit from improved teaching facilities including opportunities for
practical science and other craft courses not readily available in existing
night school premises. The Government has recently increased boarding fees
at secondary schools to MK1O5 but it needs to further increase it to MK135
so as to fully recovek the cost of boarding. During negotiation, the
Government agreed to refrain without IDA concurrence from constructing
boarding schools after completion of 10 new ones and to increase boarding
fees to MK135 by 1988 (para. 3.07) and maintenance of the fees thereafter
at the level sufficient to fully recover the cost of boarding.
(2)  Primary Schools: Quality Improvement and Expansion:
Classrooms - The Credit would provide: (i) for the furnishings and
equipping of about 1500 new or replacement classrooms, and about 750
teachers' houses. With quality improvement as the basic objective,
classrooms would be located strictly in accordance with criteria already
agreed with the Bank Staff (Annex C), which would ensure, inter alia that
at regional, district, and community levels, classrooms would be
apportioned on the basis of existing and projected enrollments and
classroom shortages, that priority would be given to splitting classes with
enrollments in excess of 100, and to replacing badly dilapidated
classrooms. Teachers' houses, on the basis of one for every two
classrooms, are an essential element in the recruitment and retention of
qualifed teachers, especially in rural areas. Separate additional
self-help community projects will be encouraged to provide the additional
houses required. In order to stimulate the efficient and rapid
construction of primary classrooms, a revised form of community involvement
would be adopted; communities would be required to provide the bricks,
while construction would be by experienced local contractors. (ii)
Teaching/Learning Materials: Basic student textbooks in English, Chichewa
and Arithmetic were provided by EEC and IDA under the Third IDA Education
Project. These textbooks have a life span of about three years. The sum
of MK 1.00 included in primary school fees for the replacement of worn out
textbooks has proved inadequate for this purpose and there is now a
critical shortage of textbooks. This credit component is predicated on the
basis that a further MK4 million's worth of textbooks would be supplied to
the schools to provide at least one set of texts for every two students in
standards 2-8 and 1 set of textbooks per student in standard one, on
condition that government supplement the student levy of MK1100 per year by
an annual per pupil subvention of MK2.00, which would be provided under



- 36 -
a separate line item In the education budget (para. 1.05 of Attachment 1 of
Annex A).  Assurances during negotiation would be sought.  List of
textbooks is provided in Annex G. (iii) Teacher Upgrading: In 1984/85,
there were almost 2,450 underqualified and undertrained primary school
teachers ir. the system, and a further 1,800 trained teachers whose
education, however, had not gone beyond primary level. Two kinds of
upgrading courses are needed to enable these teachers to perform
satisfactorily: a course in pedagogy for the untrained, and a course
leading to JC/MCE qualifications for those with only primary school
education.  The Government has submitted a Plan for teacher upgrading. The
proposed Credit would finance in-service training programs, which has been
reviewed and agreed with the Bank, to meet these needs. The courses would
be organized and conducted through MIR4, whose experience in this field
makes the Institute a natural vehicle for teacher upgrading. (iv) Primary
school supervision: School supervision by District Inspectors and District
Education Officers is often thwarted by, among other things, the
inaccessibility of remote rural schools and the lack of transport, to the
extent that many schools have not been visited in three or more years. The
proposed credit would finance the provision of one bicycle and one
motorcycle for each of the 28 Districts; the bicycle would serve for visits
to relatively near schools, and longer journeys would be by motorcycle.
The Government would arrange for servicing of these vehicles to be
undertaken by their own District vehicle maintenance depots.  (v) I
the testin process: The Credit would support the consolidation of the two
existing examination systems by providing the consolidated system with
adequate office and computing facilities. This would involve (a) minor
capital improvement in the Zomba office of MCE & TB to accomodate the
transfer of professional staff from Lilongwe; and (b) computing and
printing equipment to accomodate increased work load and (c) technical
assistance in the form of a consultant to develop better test measurement.
The legal measures necessary to merge the two system will be taken prior to
credit effectiveness.
(3) Institutional Development: (i) Strengthening education
management: In the past twenty years, some expansion and strengthening of
the MOEC's capacity to manage and develop the education system has taken
place, but the pace of management development has lagged behind the demands
made on it by the rapidly developliu education system. These problems are
described in detail in Annex D. As a first step to address the management
and organisational issues, a Study of Structure and M nagement of Education
is being financed under the Fifth Education Project (Credit 1330-MAI).
This study is to be completed by mid-1987. In order to assist in the
implementation of the recommendations of the study, the Credit would
include financing for the series of short term consultancies (two
staff-years total) to assist in locally organized workshops 10/ aimed at
10/ The details of the workshop process is provided in the Appraisal
Working Paper.



- 37 -
improving the quality of the planning process and 12 staff years of
fellowships on education research and evaluation, as well as the
operational cost of running the workshop for up to 1000 officials of the
Ministry. (ii) Strengthening the research and evaluation capacity of the
Planning Section: The first priority of the program is to improve the
efficiency and quality of education in Malawi. It is therefore important
to the overall progress of the Program that there is a built-in mechanism
for evaluating the progress made at each stage. Consequently, the existing
monitoring and evaluation committee within the Planning Section has been
reconstituted with agreed terms of reference (Annex B). Secondly, the
research and evaluation unit within the Planning Section is to be
strengthened by (a) four staff years of technical assistance for the
position of a full time researcher and a part time researcbhr and (b) 6
staff years of the services of local Malawian economists - one at a senior
level. The Credit will specifically fund three studies which will be
carried out within the strengthened research and evaluation unit - (a) to
assess the extent to which school inputs financed by the Credit are
delivered and utilized in schools and classrooms; (b) determine the cost
effectiveness of various educational inputs and instructional methods; and
(c) to assess the income effects of post primary schooling (tracer study).
(iii) Improved correspondence education: The low returns characteristic of
M4CC centers (poor examination results, high operating costs) are
symptomatic of the under resourcing to which MCC has been subjected. MCC
has suffered from inadequate financial support, understaffing at both
managerial and operational levels, inappropriate facilities both at
headquarters and in the field. A thorough review of the role, organization
and functioning of MCC was carried out by a Bank financed consultant and
his report has been made available to the Government. MCC's present
management needs strengthening. In order to provide strong management over
the next three years, a transitional management arrangement would be made
with an experienced distance education institution. The role of this
partner institution will be to assist in the management of the MCC over a
three year period, improve the quality of its services, and provide skill
training to the staff.  (iv) Strengthening the Project Implementation Unit:
This unit is solely responsible for implementing all education projects in
Malawi. The PIU set up within the MOEC for the implementation of five
previous Bank Group-assisted education projects and an AFDB education
project, would be responsible for the implementation of the proposed
Credit. The PIU is now charged with implementation of all externally
financed education projects. It has four sections: accountancy,
procurement, civil works and administration, is staffed with 20 national
and three expatriate professionals, and has adequate support staff. Its
national staff includes a project manager and an assistant manager, a
senior accountant and four assistant accountants; a senior procurement
officer and two procurement officers; an assistant architect and two
draftsmen; and eight administrative staff. The expatriate staff comprises
two architects provided by DANIDA and one quantity surveyor recruited
through the British Council, but financed under IDA Education V (Credit
1330-MAI).  Contracts of the DANIDA architects will expire in August 1986



- 38 -
and June 1987 respectively. DANIDA has agreed to provide an additional
six-staff years for architectural consultants to PIU over the period
1987-1988. The contract of the quantity surveyor will expire in November
1987. To strengthen the PIU and assist Government in its efforts to
gradually replace expatriate by national staff, the program provides about
6 staff-years of external training, and 3 months of local training at the
Polytechnic. Under IDA Education V, two Malawian staff receive
architectural training overseas. They are expected to graduate in 1988 and
1990 respectively, and a third Malawian national is being trained overseas
as quantity surveyor. Operational expenditures for project administration,
excluding local salaries, are included under the proposed Credit. (v)
School Maintenance Unit: The current budgetary levels are insufficient both
for Ministry of Works and Supplies responsible for major maintenance and
MOEC's School Maintenance Unit for adequate maintenance of school
buildings including furniture. The Credit would finance the merger of
MOEC'S School Maintenance Unit with the P.I.U to create a preventive School
Maintenance Unit within the P.I.U. The Unit will consist of 3 regional
maintenance teams, staffed with plumbers, electricians, carpenters,
painters and masons. Each team will be provided with simple hand tools and
construction materials. Maintenance manuals will be produced by the Unit
for use by headmasters. (vi) Establishment of a Loan Scheme for University
Students: To ensure that disadvantaged students are not denied the
oppurtunity for university education due to inability to pay fees, the
Credit would provide an initial capital to establish a revolving loan
scheme for such students (paras (3.10(b) and (4.04 (4)).
5.05      Summary of technical assistance and fellowships: On the whole,
the credit provides for 29 staff-years of technical assistance, of which
ODA will finance 17 staff years, and 34 staff-years of fellowships, of
which ODA will finance 32 staff years (Annex, Table 7 for list of TAs and
fellowships). In addition, the 3 workshops planned during the life of the
Credit would provide tra'nling for more than 1000 education staff.
Assurance was given by the Government during negotiation that fellowship
recipients will be selected expeditiously.
5.06      Impact on female education:  The government has a policy of open
access to primary education. Since primary schools financed under the
Credit will be located in disadvantaged areas, all rural children,
including girls, will benefit from the Credit. Since a third of all
secondary school places are reserved for girls, the six schools financed
under this Credit will, in all likelihood, enroll about 800 girls.
Program Cost and Financing
5.07      Cosf : The total cost of the proposed investment program supported
by the Credit is estimated at US$ 34.0 million equivalent, including custom
duties and taxes estimated at US$1.0 million equivalent. The estimated
costs and local and foreign exchange components are given by item and
category of expenditures in Annex Tables 7, 8, and 9 and are summarized
below by item. (Table 5,2)



-39 -
Table S.2
Ef0M4 cr aWW
Item               Cobmpoent                    MK (millions)                  US$ (millions)
lb.                                        -         -         --                            - 
LDal   Pboreipn   ibtal   I4cal    Foreign    Total
A.   CANI (? 9NaRY WUCU
1   Regional Secondary Schools         3.55      3.90      7.45    1.77        1.95      3.73
2   tDy Secondary Schools (Urban)      1.63      2.00      3.63    0.81        1.00      1.81
SWb-total A.                     5.18      5.90     11.08    2.59        2.95      5.54
B.    QUALTIY DvRUEMMr
1   Primary Schools                   13.49     14.28    27.77      6.74       7.14      13.89
2    Primary School Inspectorate       0.01      0.43      0.44    0.01        0.22       0.22
3   Primary School Iextbooks           0.43      3.83      4.26    0.21        1.92       2.13
4   Upgralirg Prl mry bachers          1.49      0.64      2.13    0.75        0.32       1.07
5               iaentre                0.43      1.29       1.72    0.22       0.65       0.86
6   MCM Equipment                      0.06      0.53      0.59    0.03        0.27       0.30
stb-total B.                    15.91     21.01    36.92    7.95        10.51      18.46
IC.     I=I  V=CM   NrLa
1   Research and Imvelo1umit           0.07      0.37      0.45    0.04        0.19       0.22
2   Plamidng                           0.28      1.96      2.23    0.14        0.98       1.12
3   WX Ymvgmmt                          -        1.74      1.74      -         0.87       0.87
4   94         Unit                   0.98      2.40      3.38    0.49        1.20       1.69
5   P.I.U.                             0.33      0.64      0.97    0.16        0.32       0.48
9ub-total C.                     1.66      7.11      8.77    0.83        3.55       4.38
D.     IMPRDVD MST RECEY
Estabishabent University         0.90      0.90       1.80   0.45        0.45       0.90
Studet Loan Shme
Baselimr Coate                   23.64    34.92       58.57  1'2         17.46      29.28
Cbntitqency % 10                  2.36      3.49      5.86     1.18       1.75       2.93
Cbst. Fscal. % 9.5                2.17      1.45      3.62     1.09       0.72       1.81
TX"AIS                      28.18     39.86    68.05    14.09       19.93       34.02
Nbte: All figrw rnurd totals on thLs Tbe ard my tb for not exactly add up.



- 40 -
5.08      Bases of cost estimates: Cost estimates for civil works,
furniture and equipment were reviewed 'in consultation with staff of MOEC
and PIU and were found acceptable. They have been derived from recent cost
data for similar items in the ongoing Education Projects. The
accommodation schedules on the basis of which the cost estimates are made
are functional and appropriate for the Government's educational
objectives. The average base construction costs per square meter
(January 1987 prices) for secondary schools is US$278, and for primary
schools US$80. This compares with unit costs in other Eastern and Southern
Africa countries for secondary education as follows: Kenya US$365 (1981);
Lesotho US$331 (1981); and Comoros US$290 (1985). Furniture and equipment
costs are reasonable.  The unit cost per student place for
academic/communal facilities is estimated at US$115 for primary schools and
US$1,210 for secondary schools. This compares with an average Bank-wide
median cost of US$492 for primary classrooms and U$2,880 (1983) for
secondary schools. About 38 percent of civil works is for construction of
staff houses and about 4 percent for boarding accommodations. Provision of
staff housing is essential for attracting qualified teachers to rural areas
and qualified staff to the Examination Center. Staff are required to pay
10% of their salary for staff housing. The government is currently
reviewing its overall policy of provision of housing to civil servants, and
is conducting studies on Housing Subsidies and Wage Policy and on Building
By-Laws. The results of its review and studies could lead to a reduction
in standards and cost of institutional houses in general. For the rural
secondary schools boarding will be provided for about 75 percent of
students.   Within the last two years, the Government has reduced
construction unit costs by about 20 percent (i) mainly by improving ratio
of net over gross area and (ii) unit costs per square meter by: (a) making
better use of local materials notably bricks and laminated wood; and (b) by
scaling down specifications. The cost estimate under the three year
investment period reflects these improvements.
5.09      The technical assistance component consists of 29 staff-years of
specialists' services. The expatripte specialists are expected to be
recruited through bilateral donor agencies or directly by the Government.
The two Malawian economists are to be recruited through the civil service
recruiting mechanism.
5.10      Customs Duties and Taxes.  In line with Malawian policies and
practices, items imported specially for the proposed investment program
would be exempted from customs duties and taxes. Certain items are
expected to be purchased locally on the open market and reimbursement
percentages have been calculated to exclude duties and taxes estimated at
US$1.0 million equivalent on such items as imported building materials
under construction contracts and local purchases of furniture.



- 41 -
5.11      Contingency Allowances: For physical increases, 10 percent has
been added to the base costs. Estimated price increases, from tbe base
cost date of January 1987, have been applied in accordance with t:he
implementation schedule (Annex Table 11) at the following annual
percentages.
Table 5.3
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Foreign                  3.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     3.5
Local                   10.0     8.0     6.0     6.0      6.0
The estimated price increases have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and
have been found acceptable.
5.12      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component,
estimated at US$19.9 million equivalent or 60 percent of the total
investment program cost net of taxes, has been calculated as follows: (a)
civil works and project administration, 50 percent; (b) furniture and
professional services, 60 percent; (c) equipment and vehicles, 90 percent;
(d) technical assistance and overseas fellowship training, 100 percent; and
(e) local training, 30 percent. The foreign exchange estimates takes into
account that the bulk of the equipment and a part of the building materials
would be imported.
Financing Plan
5.13      The total estimated cost of the program of US$34.0 million
equivalent would be financed with an IDA Credit of SDR 21.4 million
(US$27.0 million equivalent), which would equal 82 percent of total cost
net of taxes or 100 percent of the foreign exchange component and 54
percent of local costs net of taxes. In addition ODA would provide a total
of 17 staff-years of technical assistance and 32 staff-years of
fellowships, equivalent to about US$2.3 million and equipment for the MCC,
equivalent to about US$0.3 million, including contingencies. The
Government's contribution would be US$4.4 million of which about US$1.0
million is for taxes and duties. The financing plan would be as follows:
Table 5.4
FINANCING PLAN
US$ (million) Equivalent)
Category                   GOV     ODA     IDA    TOTAL
1. Civil Works                 3.29          16.85   20.14
2. Furniture, Equ-ipment       0.65   0.25    5.31    6.21
Books & Vehicles
3. Professional Services       0.11           0.51    0.62
4. Technical Assistance               1.77    1.04    2.81
5. Fellowships & Training      0.17   0.54    1.41    2.12
6. Univ. Student Loan                         1.00    1.00
Scheme
7. Project Aministration       0.22           0.88    1.10
TOTAL                     4.44   2.56   27.00   34.00



- 42 -
Disbursements
5.14      Disbursements would be on the basis of:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of
local expenditures for civil works and professional services;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 100 percent of local
expenditures ex-factory, or 80 percent of local expenditures for
locally procured furniture, equipment, vehicles and
transportation of furniture and equipment to school sites;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of local
expenditures for technical assistance, fellowships, and training;
(d) 80 percent of operational expenditures for project adminis
administration; and
(e) 100 percent of expenditures for the establishment of the
University student loan scheme.
Disbursements for operational expenditures under project administration,
local transportation expenses of furniture and equipment to school sites,
and local training would be made against statements of expenditures,(SOEs)
documentation for which would not be submitted for review but would be
retained by the government for inspection by the Bank staff during
supervision. Experience with previous Bank Group-assisted education
projects has demonstrated that the PIU has satisfactory institutional
capacity, hence the use of the statement of expenditure ptocedure would be
fully justified. All other disbursements would be fully documented. The
disbursement schedule is presented in Annex, Table 12. The Credit will
close on June 30, 1993, one year after project completion.
5.15      Special Account: To ensure that investment funds would be made
available as soon as needed, a Special Account operated by the Project Unit
would be established in the Reserve Bank of Malawi with an initial deposit
of up to US$ 2.0 million, approximately equivalent to six months of
estimated expenditure during the first two years of implementation.
Application by the Government ior replenishment for the Special Accotnt
would be submitted when the balance of the Special Account reaches about 50
percent of the initial deposit or US$1.0 million. These applications would
be supported by documentary evidence or SOEs, whichever is applicable, of
payments made from the account of goods and services eligible for Bank
financing under the investment program.



- 43 -
Procurement
5.16      Goods and services to be financed under the Credit would be
procured according to the following procedures:
Table 5.5
Proposed procurement procedures
(US$)
Force
Category                 ICB        LCB     Other    Account   TOTAL
1. Civil Works
Total    10.32      9.32                0.50    20.14
IDA     8.95     7.50                 0.40    16.85
ODA
2. Furniture, Equipment
Books and Vehicles
Total     4.11               2.10                6.21
IDA     3.61               1.70                5.31
ODA                        0.25                0.25
3. Professional Services
Total                        0.62                0.62
IDA                        0.53                0.53
ODA
4. Technical Assistance
Total                        2.81                2.81
IDA                        1.03                1.03
ODA                        1077                1.77
5. Fellowships and
Training
Total                        2.12                2.12
IDA                        1.40                1.40
ODA                        0.54                0.54
6. University Student
Loan Scheme
IDA                        1.00                1.00
ODA                        1.00                1.00
7. Project Administration
Total
IDA                        1.10                1.10
ODA                        0.88                0.88
TOTALS            Total    14.43      9.32     9.75       0.50     34.00
IDA    12.56     7.50      6.54      0.40      27.00
ODA                        2.56                 2.56



- 44 -
5.17      Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the Bank Group guidelines for procurement. These contracts
would total about US$14.5 million equivalent including contingencies.
Exempted from ICB would be: contracts for construction of staff houses and
primary school classrooms, each classroom estimated to cost less than
US$5,000 equivalent each, totalling US$9.7 million. Such contracts would
be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. Minor works
estimated at US$0.5 million would be carried out under force account
procedure or by small contractors. Goods and equipment estimated to cost
less than US$10,000 equivalent, but not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent in
total, would be procured by local sbnpping. Locally produced textbooks
would be subject to single source l ' urement as there is only one
publisher in the country.
5.18      Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture and equipment indicating proposed grouping and cost
estimates would be reviewed by the Bank Group. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competltive bidding and permit bulk
procurement. Prior review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank Group
would not be required for civil works contracts costing less than
US$300,000 equivalent each and for furniture and equipment contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each. However, Bank Group missions
would review and approve standard documents and all site plans.
5.19      When ICB is used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the existing
applicable rate of Import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price
of competing foreign suppliers, and qualified domestic civil works
contractors would be allowed a preference of 7.5 percent of the bid prices
of competing foreign contractors.
5.20      Architectural firms for civil works wou?d be selected in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Locally established consulting
firms who have undertaken similar assignments for, and have a good working
relationship with the Government, will be expected to be selected on the
basis of proposals. All consultants financed under the project would be
recruited under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group.
Implementation
5.21      The lmplementation of the Policy Action Program is to be carried
out by the Planning Section of the MOEC through the newly reconstituted
Committee on monitoring and evaluation (Annex E contains the terms of
reference and membership).  This Committee which is to be chaired by the
Principal Secretary NOEC, will be responsible for ensuring that the Policy
objectives of the program are met. The Committee is to provide support to
the Planning Section of MOEC in the following areas: (a) coordination among
various sections of MOEC and (b) preparation of the relevant reports for
the annual review of progress with the Bank Group (these reports would form



- 45 -
the basis of the Annual Bank Government reviews) and (c) monitoring and
reporting on progress made in implementing various policies. In addition,
the Committee will supervise the MOEC's budget requests (investment and
recurrent budgets) for consistency with programmed facilities, staff and
policy action objectives. The performance indicators were agreed upon
during negotiations. In addition, assurance was reached during negotiation
that adequate operational funds to carry out the investment program would
be made available to the P.I.U. Implementation for the civil works
component and for fr--niture and equipment procurement and technical
assistance would be carried out by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
5.22      Professional Services.  Architectural and engineering services
required for the program are limited.  Designs of school buildings have
already been prepared by the PIU as part of a general standardization of
educational facilities for secondary schools and primary schools. The
designs of the MCC offices and Examination Center would be prepared by
local consultant/architect firms. All draft designs will be reviewed by
the Bank Group.
5.23      Implementation Schedule.  Although the standard disbursement
profile has been used (para. 5.14) the program is likely to be implemented
over a period of about three and a half years, including six months for
finalizing accounts (Annex Table 10). The schedule takes into account a
good record of project implementation under previous Bank Group financed
projects in Malawi.
5.24      Status of Preparation.  Standardized designs for all project
schools financed under the Credit have been prepared. The Government has
selected and contracted consultant architects for the Examination Center
and MCC offi-es. Preliminary furniture and equipment lists for all
institutions have been reviewed by Bank Group Staff and found
satisfactory.Tendering for civil works is expected to begin in 1987, soon
after the Credit is declared effective. Suitable school sites have been
selected following established criteria, with due consideration to
catchment areas, services and accessibility. Adequate land has been
provided free of charge by the communities. Sites for the expansion of the
Examination Center have also been identified. The Government has prepared
adequate appraisal reports of the Primary and Secondary School components
of the Credit (para. 5.03).
Reporting and Auditing
5.25      Following procedures established under the previous education
projects, semi-annual reports on implementation progress would be submitted
to the Bank Group for review within two months after the periods ending
March 31 and September 30 of each year. These reports would be the basis
for annual program reviews to be held between the Government and the Bank
during October/November of each year. No later than three months after the
Credit Closing Date, the PlU, with assistance from other MOE and government
departments, would provide the Bank with a completion report evaluating the
execution, initial operations, costs and benefits of the proposed project
and the performance of the government and the Bank.Group, including lessons
learned during project implementation.



- 46 -
5.26      Monitoring: The formal Statement of Education Policy and Policy
Action Program which summarizes the policy content of the Education Plan
presented by the Government are fully described in Section 4.   A joint
interim mid-term review will be held not later than June 30, 1989 to review
the progress made in implementing the policy action program. The specific
policies to be reviewed are listed in Annex F.
5.27      Accounts and Audit: The PIU would establish and maintain separate
accounts for all expenditures incurred under the program. The records
would be maintained adequately to reflect, in accordance with appropriate
accounting procedures, its operation and financial condition. The
government would provide annual audits prepared by auditors satisfactory to
the Bank Group for all expenditures financed under the project, with
particular emphasis on operational expenditures (project administration),
expenses for local transportation of furniture and equipment to school
sites, and local training. Audit reports would be provided to the Bank
Group within six months of the end of the government's fiscal year.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The Policy action program described in Chapter IV is expected to
yield very significant benefits to the country. It would make the
provision of education more equitable, more cost effective and consistent
with the country's long term development needs and resources.   The credit
itself would benefit at primary level, 75,000 primary school students (8
percent of the 1984/85 enrollments) and 750 primary school teachers (5
percent of the teaching body) by the provision of classrooms and housing;
and all primary school students (about 900,000) by ensuring an adequate
supply of basic textbooks. At secondary level, 2,880 students (up to 5,760
in double shift) would be accommodated by the construction of three
secondary schools and the conversion of three MCC centers into dual
day/night secondary schools.
6.02      In addition to the expansion of educational opportunities,
quality, efficiency and institutional improvements constitute a major
aspect of the intended benefits. Measures to reduce class sizes (para.
4.04), improve teacher supply and quality (para. 4.04), revise school
curricula and examinations (para. 4.04), institutionalize the supply of
teaching/learning materials, (para. 4.04) improving internal efficiency and
student flow (para 4.01), expand cost effective procedures such as double
shifting (para 4.01) and improve school inspection and supervision, are all
intended to promote qualitative improvement of primary schools. The



-  47 -
I,  ,'
secondary school component hak been'desgned to support the Government's
declared intention to improve curricula, ensure an adequate and balanced
supply, and an equitable distributioau of tqAche;s, raise efficiency levels
by discouraging repetition and rejiwtng a1l g.spects of correspondence
education, and cost effectiveness iby intioducing double%Shifting,
rationalizing student/teacher katirs ald teachek- worklo,4s, and full cost
recovery of boarding expenditured.' Refoms of this magnitude require
strong and efficient sector man e;eimnt tAid A major benefit accruing from
the Credit will be the expansion and strengthening of administration,
planning, research, development and evaluaiion within MOEC, and the PIU,
the creation of a rationalized examinat on system and the strengthening and
restructuring of the MCC. The achievement of these objectives will have a
fundamental and lasting effect on the administration and qualAty of
education in Malawi.
Risks
6.03      Reforms of this magnitude require ztrong and efficient sector
management. The Credit would, therefore, strengthen administration,
planning, research, developvtnt an4 evaluation-within MOEC and the P.I.U
and strengthen the restructuring of the MCC. In addition, there would be
annual high level reviews qf I:ogress made in undertaking the proposed
reform program. A second set of risks relates to finanicial and human
resources constraints which iAight slow down implementation of the proposed
investment plan. There is a risk thAt the Government may have difficulty
increasing the share of the bukdger deyoted to education. However, this
risk would be minimized by increased user charges for boarding and lodging
at all educational levels. Also, meeting the increased need for qualified
teachers to improve access to piducatin 'and to improve student flows may
slow down expansion of primary' education and tbLe attainment of reduced
pupil:teacher ratios. This riak is mitig#zed by the provision of a
significant amount of training for ruw teachers and for teacher upgrading.
VII. AGREENUNTS REACHED AND RE        A29IONS
7.01      Prior to negotiation, the Government sent to the Bank
(A) The Statement of Education Policy and related Policy Action Program
(para. 4.01 and Annex A); in line with the schedule agreed with the Bank,
the principal actions to be carried out include:
(i) Starting from the academic vear 1987/88, the minimum entry
age to primary education will not be less than 5 years
(para. 4.02 and paraS 1.08 of Attachment I of Annex A);



48 -
(ii) By December 1987 prepare a plan for implementation of the
one* only repetition in Standard 8. Begin phasing in the new
policy in 1988 academic year and fully implement the policy
by 1989 academic year (paras. 4.02 and 4.04 (la) and para.
1.08 of Attachment 1 of Annex A);
'kiii) By March 1988, the revision of the content and format of
the PSLE will be completed, and the new style examination
introduced at the end of the school year 1988 school year
-(para. 4.04 (la) and para. 1.09 Attachment I of Annex A);
Civ) PeWjabiiity studies to convert up to 13 urban secondary
schoels to double shift institutions will be completed by the
begintdng of the school year 1988/89, and the system
introduced at the beginning of the school year 1989/90.  A
preliminary version of this study has been received (para.
.4.04('b) and para. 2.02 of Attachment 1 of Annex A);
(x) A secondary school mapping survey, to establish the viability
of day secondary schools in selected areas, will be completed
.   by  tiIreh 1987, and resultant policy decisions determined by
December 1987 (para. 4,04(2b) and para. 3.11 of Attachment 1
of 'Annex);
(vi) By March 1988, provide in the Education Recurrent Budget
MK 2 per child for provision of primary textbooks (para.
5.04(2 ii) and para. 1.05 of Attachment 1 of Annex A).
(B)       The inservice teacher training program for teacher upgrading
(para. 5.04(2 (iii)).
(C)    ' A preliminary feasibility study on shift system in urban
secondary schools (para. 7.01(A)(iv)).
7.02      During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed on the
following:
(a) performance indicators to monitor and evaluate improvements in
education quality and cost efficiency (para. 5.21);
,0  VWb)  the,level of recurrent expenditure (para 3.09 to 3.11);
(c)  Increasing the user charges for boarding to MK135 by 1988
-'  1   s kand increases thereafter to fully recover boarding costs
,(paras. 3.07 and 5.04(1));
(d) a4nual program Implementation review meetings to be held between
af  the Government and the Bank by October/November of each year, on
' the basis of semi-annual progress reports to be sent to the Bank
ifi fr comments im March-September each year (par"s. 5.23);
v RE * 8 \ . '1
'1    .   ,



- 49 -
(e)  not later than June 30, 1989 an indepth mid-term review of
progress made towards the targets and government's Investment
program would be carried out. The mid-term review will focus on
progress made in the areas listed in Amnex I (para. 5.26);
(f)  after the construction of 10 new boarding facilities by 1990/91
no new ones will be constructed without IDA concurrence. (paras.
3.07 and 5.04 (1);
(g)  procedures for the utilization of a Special Account (para 5.15)
and;
(h) annual expenditure and performance audit reports and the
Project Comp7etion report to be submitted to the Bank according
to agreed prtedures and schedules (para. 5.25);
(i)  Preparation and submission to the IDA by December 1st 1987, a
student loan Administration Plan. (paras. 3.10(b) and 4.04(4));
(j) adequate funds would be made available to the PIU to carry out on
a timely basis, the 1987-1990 investment program (para. 5.21);
(k)  candidates for fellowships under the program would be timely
selected (para. 5.05)                       1
(1) starting 1988 university fees net of living allowances will be
MK200 and subsequent adjustment would be made to maintain the
real value of this fee (para. 3.10(b)).
(i) any changes in the education investment program for 1985-1990
would be made only on agreement with IDA (para. 3.17).
7.03     A condition of Credit effectiveness is the legislation on the
merger of the Examination Sytems (para. 5.04 (2.v)).
7.04     A condition of disbursement of the loan scheme component is the
preparation of a detailed Administration Plan setting out the
administrative procedures for the loan scheme, including the repayent
period, administrative cost and other conditionalities including interest
rate and the student loan agreement. (7.03(e)). Such Plan will have to be
satisfactory to the Association.
7.05      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
policy action program and the 1985-1990 investment program would constitute
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$27.0 million equivalent to the
Government of Malawi.



- 50 -                     ANNEX A
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT           Page 1 of 16
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
STATEWrH(OF EDiUCATIO4NAL POLICY
The government of Malawi regards education as
a key factor in its economic development, as a means of
promoting national consciousness and cohesion and as a
means of raising the standard of living of the
population.   It is the government's policy to improve
the quality of education, the efficiency of education
management, and access to the improvretd system in order
to ensure that the national objectives are met.
1. Quality of Education
For sometime now, there has been a general
concern by teachers and parents  in Malawi over the
quality and relevance of education in view of the high
repetition  and  drop  out  rates  in  primary  schools
especially   in  rural  areas   and   the  substantial
differences  in  achievement  at  the *primary  schools
leaving examination between urban and rural schools.
These outcomes have highlighted the deficiencies of the
education system especially at the primary level:
namely, the need to make the curriculum more relevant
and to better relate the primary school curriculum to
the primsry school leaving examinations; the need to
develop an examination system especially at the primary
level which would better measure achievement at that
level; insufficiently qualified teachers resulting in
unmanageable   pupil   teacher   ratios,   shortage   of
education resources in primary schools in particular;
shortage of adequate facilities resulting in oversized
classes in primary schools; inadequate number of
inspectors  to  provide  adequate  supervision,   and
Insufficient supply of textbooks.
The government intends to take the following
policy and institutional development measures:
Curriculum:  At the primary school level, the
revision of tbe curriculum to emphasize the basic
skills of r,ading, comprehension and numeracy has
began. The underlying principles are:-
(i)   subject  integration  under  the  broad
headings of basic skills, history and
civics,   agriculture   and  moral  and
spiritual values and manual skills.
(i;)  contilnuous    assessment    of   student
achievement  by  teaehers.       In  this
regard, the criteria for use by teachers
in assessing student performance In each
class at the end of the year will be
drawn up.



- 51 -                       ANNEX A
Page 2 of 16
At the secondary school level, the present
secondary schoo1 curriculum otters up to 21 subjects
for study. The number taken at both the Junior and
Senior level national examinations varies considerably.
The contents of, in particular mathematics, science and
agriculture syllabuses require updating.   The review
and revision of the cuvriculum will be undertaken.
Subject panels for this purpose have been set up and
within the next year these panels will be strengthened
to include members from the Department of Education at
the University College. We have recently revised the
curriculum for vocational and technical subjects at the
vocational  and  technical  colleges  and  introduced
commercial subjects into technical colleges.
Teachers: At the primary level, the government
is in the process of expanding existing teacher
training colleges and constructing additional colleges.
By 1988, enrolment will exceed over 3000 students in
our colleges and our output will double from the
current 900 to 1800.  It is also intended to increase
our teaching force by recruiting those teachers who
retired below the age of 50 since the retirement age in
the country has now been extended to 60.   All these
measures will contribute to the lowering of the pupil
teacher ratio.   Our objective remains to attain the
pupi'l teacher ratio of 50:1 by year 1995. Our present
ratio is 60:1.   In order to improve the quality of
teacher training, a review of the teacher training
syllabuses is being carried out with the intention of
making them more relevant to the primary school
syllabuses, emphasizing methodology and practical
teaching. Upgrading programme for untrained teachers
is being initiated and a one year upgrading course will
commence in 1987.   Other quality improvements which
have been initiated are: short courses for primary
school headmasters, inspectors and district education
officers as well as refresher courses for existing
primary teachers.
At the secondary school level, a review of
number of subjects and subject combination required of
secondary teachers is being undertaken to ensure
indepth knowledge of the subjects. To make up for the
shortfall in local teacher availability in key subjects
such as Maths, Science and English; Peace Corps, VSOs,
World   University,   Canada   Overseas   and   Belgian
Volunteers are being used to assist in filling the gap
until   such  times  as  our  output  can  increase.
Enrolments in the Department of Education at Chancellor
College  in tthese subjects  are being increased.   Io
ensure adequate supply of tenchers  at the secontdary
level, the ratio of (diploma to graduate teachers is



52                     ANNEX A
- S2 -                    Page 3 of 16
being maintained at 2:1.       the  MalawiCorregondence
College  Centres,  the  qualty  of  teac ers  w          e
imiprovedthrough training of primary school teachers as
well as through inservice training of existing teachers
at the Malawi Institute of Education.  With legard to
vocational and technical education, commercial teacbers
fi     der                      I          or technies
have undergone-.training;. -and teaichers  frtcical
colleges  are  being. trained  through  ODA  fellowship
programme. The intention is to attain an average pupil:
teacher ratio of  20:1  (rEnge 12:1  to 40:1) and to
ensure  that  the . worklosd of  techinical  teachers  are
comparable with that of secondary school teachers.
Class Size:   In a number of primary sclools,
enrolment,  especially  in  the  lower  classes,  has
exceeded  100.   On the otber hand, in many schools
especially in rural areas, class size in the upper
grade  is  below  the  norm of  50.   The government's
strategy  is  to gradually reduce  the class  size  in
overcrowded  schools  to  50  and  'through  multigrade
teaching  to  increase  class  size. in under  enrolled
schools.    At  the -secondary  level,  the government's
Intention  is to achieve  an average  student teacber
ratio of 25:1.
Educatjonal klaterials - The government's policy
is  to  aim  towards  providing  adequate  instructional
materials to all primary school students.  At present,
there are not enough textbooks to reach our target
ratio of 1 book for 2 students and many children lack
writing  materials   at  the  primary   level.         The
contribution per child by parents is not suffcient to
meet the replacement cost of textbooks. To ensure that
each school is adequately provided with instructional
materials  and  text  books,  parental -contribution  of
K1.00 will be reflected in a Treasury Fund to be
established for textbook replacement and will be
matched by the Government1s contribution of K2.00 per
enrolled pupil. This contribution of the Government
will come into effect from 1988/89 financial year and
will be reflected as a sub-item in the approved
estimates of the expenditure of tbe Ministry's Revenue
Account.      in  addition,   the   delivery  of  other
instructional materials to primary scbools will be
stepped  up.    At  the  secondary  school,  it  is  the
government's intention to ensure that most Malawi
Correspondence College Centres are equiped with radio
receivers and provided with instructional materials.
Consequently, Malawi Correspondence College fees will
be increased.



-53                           ANNEX A
Page 4 of 16
2. Efficiency of Educational Management
Financial Resource Management:    At present the
proportion  of  total  government  budget  devoted  to
education was 9.67 in 1984/85. This admittedly is low
by standards in the region. Ilowever, in nominal terms,
the    expenditure   on    education    has    increased
substantially  in recent years.   The gross enrolment
ratios at primary and secondary have also increased
substantially. The long term development needs of the
country. and the qualitative improvements of the systems
envisaged   in  the  Education  Plan  have  important
implications   on   the   budgetary   requirements   for
education.   The sector needs  to mobilize additional
resources and, at the same time, the planned expansion
of education must be consistent with the forecasted
growth of the fiscal resources of the government.  To
meet the planned targets, it is expected that the
budget share of education expenditure (net of revenues
generated  within  the  sector)  would  grow  from  9.4
percent to 12.8 percent by the end of the Plan period
and this would be sufficient to finance the major
components of the Plan.  At the same time, the fiscal
resources  of  the  government  would  be  augmented  by
private resources through very modest increases in user
charges.    At  the  secondary  there  would  be a move
towards full cost recovery of boarding charges.  As a
first step, the boarding charges at government boarding
schools have been brought in line with similar charges
elsewhere.    At  the  University,  the  idea  of  cost
recovery is acceptable in principle. As a first step,
we have from 1984/85 academic year, introduced fee
payment  of  K200  per  student.         This   level  of
contribution will be subject to further review from
time to time.
In addition, to these fiscal changes, it is thle
government's intention that available resources are
efficiently utilized. The efficiency of the education
system will be improved as required when professional
staff are suitably trained to meet the increased demand
and  challenges  of  education  in Malawi.   Therefore,
implementation of a staff development plan is a
priority. The other actions to be taken include better
deployment  of  the  inspectorate;  improvement  of  the
planning process, reorganisation of the examinations
systems   and   the   restructuritng   of   the   Malawi
Correspondence College, developing most cost effective
school construction design and standards, establishing
a continuous monitoring and evaluation system to assess
progress in improving the quality of education.



ANNEX A
54                       air 5 of 16
Staff Development Programme - The government
intends to develop a statt development programme on a
multi year basis. Key professional and administrative
personnel in the Ministry would be selected for
upgrading through training programmes ranging from
short  term  courses  to degree  programmes.    In  this
respect, the Department of Personnel Management and
Training is expected to play a key role and priority
will be given to strengthening the staff of the
Ministry of Education and Culture and upgrading their
professional competence.
Examinations - The government has decided to
merge the two examination systems - the Ministry
Examination - J.C.E. Teacher training examination and
P.S.L.E. - with the M.C.E. examination of the
M.C.E.T.B.   The restructured examination system will
make it possible for all examinations to be conducted
in a scientific manner and for schools to receive
feedback on student achievement which can be used for
improving the quality of education at the school level.
The merger is expected to take place by mid 1987. The
Government intends to embark on extensive staff
training in test development skills.  The restructured
National Examination Board will bave a research and
evaluation unit and it is hoped that this development
will have an impact on the quality of education in the
country.
Malawi  Correspondence College  is an important
part of-the government's plan to expand access at the
secondary  school  level.    It  is  the  government's
intention to strengthen the College's capacity to.
deliver quality education to enrollees at the centres.
Consequently, the government plans to strengthen its
staffing and resource requirements during the plan
period.   The college has presented  a plan  for  its
reorganisation    which    is   now    under    serious
consideration.
Management of Education - The government is
funding a study ot management ot education which should
be completed by mid 1987.  This study should indicate
areas of deficiencies  in education management.   The
g&a-rnment intends to implement the recommendations of
this study within reason.   Pending  this study,  the
Ministry with assistance from U.N.D.P. has organised a
workshop  on  the  planning process  which  shiould also
identify areas of weakness in planning. The government
is strengtlhening the planning division of the Mlinistry
of Education by creation of more posts and through
technical assistance.



- 55 -                  ANNEX A
IS!-rof 16
Inspection    -    The    inspectorate's    key
responsibilities are first to provide advice and
assistance for the professional development of teachers
on the job; and secondly, to conduct formal inspection
of schools. It is recognised that in order to do this
work properly, inspectors should be freed from routine
administrative function and should spend 70 percent of
their time on their inspection duties, 10 percent on
inservice activities and 20 percent on curriculum
review.     A  comprehensive  scheme  of  service  for
inspectors bas been drawn up.
Monitoring and Evaluation - At present, the
sectoral  Planning  division  has  responsibility  for
monitoring    the    quality    of    education.    This
responsibility Is carried out by a small research
section within the Planning division.   The physical
programme implementation responsibility is withi the
project implementation unit within the division.   In
order to effectively perform the function of monitoring
and evaluation, we are setting up a committee to assist
the research  unit  in its  functions.   The committee
which will be chaired by the Principal Secretary will
be made up of representatives drawn from all subsectors
of the Ministry and include representatives of the
various institutions under the Ministry as well as the
Project Implementation Unit.
With regards to monitoring and evaluation of
policy changes, institutional developmient, and quality
improvements, the research unit and the committee will
establish procedures and indicators to assess progress
in the provision of education inputs, and improvements
in student's achievement, retention and test scores.
This assessment will provide a basis for the joint
Malawi Government and World Bank's annual project
implementation reviews.   Studies will also be carried
out with a view to determining the optimal combinations
of educational inputs to reach the most efficient
outcomes in the various socio-economic context of the
country and on external efficiency of thie education
system.
3. Access to Better Education
Aitliough education has expanded rapidly, there
is severe shortage of school facilities to cope with
increased demand for education thiroughout the country
and  increases  in  school  age  population.    In many
primary schools, thie average classroom pupil ratio is
over  100.   The situation  is somewhlat better at the
secondary level because of tlhe current low transition
rate  which  is  dictated  by  available  number  of
classroomns   and   teaclhers   ancd  by   our   manpower
requirements.  A primary school mapping survey has been
carried'  out an(d  a  similar  exercise  in  respect of
secondary sclhools is proposed.



- 56 -                        ANNEX A
ia  7 o-rf 16
The actions the government intends to take are
as follows:
(a)   Equitable Assess  to Quality Education -
The   school    mapping   programme    has
identified areas with inadequate primary
school facilities and the statistical
returns for the current year (1986) will
identify the schools with severe shortage
of instructional materials and textbooks.
During the Plan period, the national
averages In school facilities, textbooks
and instructional materials will be raised
gradually and equitably throughout the
country.   At the secondary level,  it is
the ultimate goal to provide each district
with a full secondary school.
(b)   Universal Primary Education - The ultimate
aim of the government is to enrol all
children of the age group 6-13 in primary
school.   lHowever,  this  target  is  not
expected to be reached before the next
century.      At  present,   however  gross
enrolment ratio in standard 1 is about
96 percent.
(c)   Expanded Access to Secondary Education -
It is the government intention to expand
access to secondary school beyond the
current 5 percent gross enrolment ratio.
In addition to the construction of new
secondary schools, there is a possibility.
of introducing in urban day secondary
schools  a shift system  (2 shifts).   If
resources permit, more day schools would
be   built   in  other   areas   with   the
communities    providing    the    boarding
facilities if they so wish.
Staff llousin - An important constraint to
loweringthiieitudent teacher ratio in primary schools
and secondary schools especially rural schools is lack
of staff houses.   At the current stage of development
in Malawi, suitable houses for rent are not readily
available as a result institutional housing must be
provided  to attract  qualified  teachers.    It  is the
government's intention to provide staff houses to rural
teachers and to charge adequate rent for such houses.
Action Plan - An actionI progranime covernltg first
five years of the Educational Plan period is attached.



57                                  ANNEX A
Page 8 of 16
MALAWI
Plan of Action for Policy and Institutional
Deveiflrnment In  the  Education  Sector
ObJectives          Status and/or Action Taken        Action to be Oompleted During
by December 1986                  the Period 1987-1991
1. Quality Improvement
1.01 To improve curricula   Revised syllabuses tn English and  Draft syllabuses in Chichewa and
and teaching methods  arithmetic and the preparation    science will be completed end of
to provide more      of teachers' guides for these      1987. In addition, a revision
relevant education    subjects have been completed.     of the primary school curricula
and enhance learning   Revision of other syllabuses     to emphasize the basic skills will
efficiency           ongoing.                           be undertaken beginning 1988
calendar year. Policy decision
on the gossible reduction of
the nr"b r of subjects to be
taught b;f q more integrated
anproach will be undertaken shortly.
The present secondary school      The established curriculum subject
curriculum is overloaded with     panels should be enlarged to include
21 subjects, some In subjects     MCC and the University and should
with very limited demand.         (a) determine by beginning of 1987
The uuber should be reduced.      the range of subject to be offered
A revision of math, science       in secondary schools; and (b) revise
and agriculture syllabuses        as necessary the curricula for
is long overdue. Curriculum       the core subjects by the end of
subject panels have been          1988.
set up.
1.02 To upgrade the       The quality of student intake     Provide inservice training courses
the quality of        into Primary Teacher Training     for up to 2,000 untrained teachers
teachers             colleges and the quality of        (45%) by 1990. First year intake
teaching staff have improved      of untrained teachers by 1987
considerably In recent years.     school year. Complete draft
Primary Teacher Training          syllabuses and supervision guide-
syllabuses have been revised      lines by first quarter of 1987.
in 7 principal subjects; the
revision of the remaining
subject syllabuses will be
completed by end of 1986.
The training needs of
unqualified teachers have
been identified. Draft
syllabuses and guidelines
for supervision are under
preparation.



ANNEX A
-58-                                          of 16
Objectives           Status and/or Action Taken          Action to be Completed Ouring
by December 1986                    the Period 1987-1991
1.03     Lower the pupil      Three new primary teacher           Complete construction and equipment
teacher ratio,       training colleges (PTTC)            of new Primary Teacher Training
in primary           are under construction (out-        Colleges and expansion of existing
schools in           put 80W  p.a.) and the existing     colleges by 1987/88.  Introduce
all districts        Primary Teacher Training            on a limited basis shift system
and nationally       Colleges are being expanded         by 1988. Program to be evaluated
(additional output 200).           by 1991. Develop a system for
Increased enrollment/output        better deployment of teachers
at PTTCs and the.introduction      by 1988 and institute a system
of a modified shift system         of yearly review of class sizes
in some primary schools have       and pupil teacher ratios.  Move
served to reduce the pupil         towards a ratio of 55:1 by 1991.
teacher ratio from 66:1 in
1983/84 to 60:1 in 1984/85.
However, especially in urban
areas, classes in excess
of 100 are still common.
Government plans to extend
the shift system, recruit
retired teachers and
rationalize teacher deployment.
1.04     To improve the       The agreed output from the          The Government will provide the
quality and          university of new secondary         university with a projection
quantity of          teachers has failed to              of its teacher requirements by
trained              materialize (98 in 1984/85          subject for the next 5 years
teachers at          instead of 130) because             by mid 1987.  The university
t.-e secondary       emphasis has been placed            should increase enrollment at
level.               on inservice training.  The         the Department of Education in
situation exacerbates the           line with these requirements.
shortfall in secondary             The program should be subject
school teachers.  Shortfalls       to yearly review through the
in supply of teachers in maths,    current tripartite review process.
science and English will need       In the short term, the Government
to be met by ongoing program       should seek to fill existing
of expatriate recruitment.         vacancies in math, English, and
At present, Malawi Correspondence  science through volunteers.
Centers are mainly staffed
by primary trained teachers         By end of 1989, the Government
who are unqualified for this       will replace 50% of tutors in
role.  They are largely untrained  tMalawl Correspondence Centers
to operate as tutors supporting    with suitably qualified and
a system of correspondence          trained teachers and initiate
education and the centers           a special program to train tutors
act as formal secondary schools.   for t4alawl Correspondence Centers
in their tutorial role.



ANNEX A
Page 10 of 16
Objectives                   Status and/or Action Taken         Action to be Completed Ouring
by December 1986                  the Period 1987-1991
1.05   To provide sufficient       Basic textbooks were supplied      The textbook replacement fund
textbooks and               to all primary schools in 1982.   should be supplemented by
instructional materials     Student fees (1 Kwacha each)        goverrnent contribution of
to pupils in primary        earmarked for book replacement    2 Kwacha per child each year
schools.                    are insufficient and a growing      starting fronm 1988. This
lack of textbooks has resulted.    would permit replacement of
Other fees for writing materials  books on a 3 year cycle.
and teacher guides and equipment  At least a minimal supply
are insufficient for the set       of basic school stationary
purpose. Policy decisions          should be provided by parents
to improve the provision of        to their primary school
instructional materials and       child irrespective of fees.
textbooks are urgently needed.    Supply of textbooks should
Fees are currently placed in       be subject to a year review.
a non-interest bearing Treasury
Account.
1.06   To provide sufficient      In 1983/84, there was a shortfall  A review of furniture
furniture (desks and       of 334,000 (85X) of class           standard will  be under-
chairs) to primary          furniture.  The furniture being     taken by September 1987,
schools.                   provided is overly sophisticated    in light of resource
and costly. A workshop on           constraint and needs.
school furniture is being           Alternative fuirniture
sponsored by UNESCO and UNICEF.    standards will be
considered.
1.07   Reduce the number of       Many schools enroll over 100        Class size of over 100 will
overcrowded class-          students in the lower classes.      be progressively reduced
rooms for efficient                                            through provlsion of new
class management.                                               facilities through self
help projects. Overcrowded
classrooms in each district
will be identified by local
education authorities and
will work through District
Development Committees to
provide new facilities.
The ultimate aim will be
to have a class size of
55:1 by year 1991. Class-
room student ratio will be
carefully n.nitored.
1.08   To improve internal        Two percent of all enrollment       Prepare a plan for implemen-
efficiency of               In standard 1 are under age and    tation of the once only
primary schools.            repeaters make up 16% of            repetitlon in Standard 8
total enrollment.  Incidence       by December 1987. Begin
of multiple repetition is high      phasing In the once only
in Standard B. The rGovernment     repetition policy in
has initiated a new policy to       Standard 8 In 1988 school
improve internal efficiency        year and implement the full
at primary level.                  policy In 1989 school year.



ANNEX A
-60 -                                           e=llOf 16
ObJectives                    Status arid/or Ation Taken      Actlon to be Completed OurinE
b ecember 1986                the Period 1987-1991
Effective from October 1986:
(a) Admission to standard 1
has been limited to
five year olds and over.
(b) Repetition In all classes
except standard 8 will
be In exceptional
circumstances and
limited to 5% of the
class. Guidelines on
teacher assessment
ard student evaluat.ion
has been prepared and
issued by December 1986.
1.09 To improve the                 The Primary School Leaving        A review of the Primary
quality of Primary             Examination is (a) mainly         School Leaving Examination
Sehool Leaving                 a rote nemory test,               will  be undertaken with
Examination                    encouraging repetition; and      a view to (a) making it
(b) expensive, requiring         a test of cognitive s$ills,
manual scoring.                   (b) introducing multiple
choice questions (with a
section for written skills)
which can be computerized,
(c) establishing a research
section which would provide
feedback on student achievement
to schools. The revision
of the content and format of the
exaWs' will be iimpleted by March
1988. The new style
examination will commen;e
at the end of 1989 school
year.
1.10 To improve the                 The quality of education          By March 1987, the Coverrwment
qality of                      being provided by MCC is          will have a report provided
education given                poor. Students do not             by an experienced distance
by MCC.                        receive the printed               education institution
materials, very few              detailing resou rces required
receive the radio                for MCC over the plan period,
programs and study               giving recommendations on
centers operate as If            an external organizational
they were secondary              structure and a plan to use
schools. Results at JC            technical assistance to improve
are poor and at MCE very         management and achieve better
poor indeed.  the                quality education.
reasons for this are both
internal and external to         By 1989, determine a suitable
MCC and include: Inadequate       urganizational structure for
staffinq; an overcrowded         MCC wlhich will provide strong
and unsuitable headquarters       management, clear goals and
premises; resources based         accountability.



ANNX A
-61 -                                        of 16
Ob. ctives         Status andkor Action Taken            Action to be Completed  urino
by.December 1986                      the Period 1987-1991
on new enrollments; no clear          Allocate increased resource to MCC
gols and targets; no training         based on numbers of active students
and supervision given to              and concentrate initially on
teacher/supervisors and an            increasing quality for existing
internal organization                 numbers before increasing total
structure unsuited to its             numbers of active students.
needs.
Provided expanded facilities for
headquarters and provide facilities
* 'tfor 2 regional offices in Lil.ongwe
and Mzuzu.
2. Access to IMrve
Education
2.01 Expand access         At present gross enrollment           While the ultimate aim of the
to quality            ratio at the primary school is        Government is to mmve  towards
primary               about 60% .T here are severe          universal primary education, given
education             shortages of classrooms and           the resource corstraint, admission
many classrooms are                   to primary school will be on open
substandard.                          access. Parents and comnunities
will be encouraged to construct
through self-help better physical
facilities to augment the planned
Increases of about 1,700 classrooms
to be constructed with Government
funds by year 1991. New classrooms
will be located in areas of greatest
need and in accordance with the
school mapping survey.
2.02 Expand access        Formal seonndary schools provide      Ten new secondary schools are plarnned
to secnmdary         places for only 4.9X of the           (4,800 new student places) converslon
education            relevant school age population,       of 2 existing MCCs into secondary
81 of standard 8 enrollees or         schools will enable them to double
11.51 of successful candidates        capacity as formal secondary by day
in the Primary School Leaving         and night secondary school by night.
Examinatlon. Additlonal places
in the Nelawi  Correspondence         Feasibility studies to convert up
Centers (enrollmnt 1,000)            to 13 urban secondary schools to
give an overall transition            double shift Institutions with one
rate of 91 .                          day and one boarding shift should
be completed by beginning of the
1988 school year.



-62
,Jti>- N             j                                                     ie-0    Of 16
1v~~~:
I  . ., ,?.  
tive       C     Status aWor Action taken                 Action to be Comleteo During
'}Chi '   i'       ''Itdert9b                                the Period 1987-1991
2.03 Exp  access to                '\irc   e Junior Certificate       Shift system to be introdcred
SeniprS onary -           OExWmination prescribes only English   by beginning of 1989 in urban
n required subject together           schools. Government should by
with any 5 subjects and since            1990 expand the limited numter
'\   ,.  nadmissiond to Form 3 is on merit,     of MCs now able to offer MCE
4C >students -with soft optional        courses so that successful
.ubjects are at an advantage             candidates from the centers can
;compatad with enrollees in               have alternative avenue other
formal secondary schools.  The          than formal secondary school
result Is the exclusion of              system for pursuing MCM courses.
satisfactory Form 2 students
from cotitinuing on to Form 3.
Additior*lly the MCC student
sd6mtt%d into Form 3 with no
training in physical science has
difficulty coping with such sjbjects
xi-- Jn Form 3 and is unprepared for
t Jh  MCE Examination.
' . 9 4 >'p' *d    'nrollment In the 5 government                       A review of admission procedwre
,      0  enrollment at       technical and vocational colleges        for technical colleges will
vocational            bontinues to stagnate with boarding      be completed by end of 1987 and
and technical         accospdmtions for 1,058 students.        appropriate long and short term
colleges.             The 1WOW/8S enrollment represents        courses developed to utilize
a use factor of 47X, although the       existing capacity.
impact of the present expansion programme
x,; '' ,    i             may have hindered enrollment.  The
situation stems in part from enrollment
.' ^'trcedurmes since the Ministry of
Labour controls admission in accordance
ith its perceived or estimated
i'atustrial demand. Meanwhile the
plan includes the expansion of
'     xI j    nrqllment to 2,200 by construct!on
of two new technical institutions.
The commercial wing of existing
"technical schools have been completed
and curriculum developed.  Now that
the commercial subjects curriculum
ihas been developed, enrollment
V.                    -         Dprocedures have been worked out and
t hat classes have begun with
the 1986 school session.
I-.  ,      ,      



63 -ANNEX A
-Page 1  of 16
Objectives          Status and/or Action Taken              Action to be Completed During
by December 1,986                      the Period 1987-1991
3. EMffciency of Education
3.01 Implement a           At present, no comprehensive staff    Develop a comprehensive five year
comprehensive         development plan exist for the          staff development plan and discuss
staff develop-        sector.  Inservice training is          this with Department of Personnel
ment program          on an adhoc basis.  There is no         Management and Traininq by end
to improve            staff training plan for personnel,    of 1987.  The plan would  form
the quality           Regional Education Officers and         the basis for soliciting donor
of educational        District Education Officers most        fellowships.
development,          of whom perform management
management             functions.
and evaluation.
3.02 Improve and           The terms of reference for the          Preparation of an action program
strengthen            proposed consultancy study at           for implementing the recomernda-
education             the Ministry of Education has           tion and proposals emerging from
manwement             been developed.  A workshop on          the consultancy study by Decemhor
systems.              management improvement and              1987, and implementation to begin
planning has been held;                by mid of 1988.
Preparaticn of an action program
f'or improving lnterdepartmental
coordination and communication,
delegation, supervision work
programming at the headquarters
level to begin mid 1987.
3.03 Strengthen             The inspectorate at headquarters       Proposals to strengthen the
the inspectorate.     is understaffed.                        lnspectorate will be worked
out by mid 1987.
3.04 Improve and            The Ministry has prepared an           Review and agree on the new
strengthen the        expanded structure for the              structure for the planning
capacity for          planning division and submitted         division by March 1987. Prepare a
education             to Department of Personnel              timetable for staffing the
development,          Magement and Training for               new structure by mid-1987
planning,             evaluation.                             fiscal year.
research,
evaluation,
policy
formulation
and project
planning.



- 64-                                            AM   A
Pav  - of 16
obluctiveb        Statusi oxtv/or Action taken                  Action to be Comwleted Ourino
by December 1986                              thte Period 1987-1991
3.05 nevelop monitor-       Monitoring and evaluation of tie            Set up a comuittee on monitoritig
Ing and evaluation    quality and efficiency of education         anO evaluation by March 196
of the quallty of      are presently performed on a regular       and estabiLsh procedures and
education to           basis by several departments                lndicators to assess swral
maximize the           iitct&iiIg the inspectorate.               progress In the provision of
lwpct Of                                                         eucatolonal inputs includIng
educatinIal                                                        facilities, textbooks, qualified
Inputs or                                                         staff, educational materials
student                                                           improvement In student achive-
achievement.                                                      sent and test scores.  On this
basis, an amusai evaluation
rePort on the quality of
education In conjuction with
a statistical report on thte
education sector will be
produced. the Plaming
Departmeit will coordinate
and monitor all rteseach and
evaluation studies on the quality
mangement and cost erficiency
of education financed wader
the credit.
3.06 RestriiLture           li  five iatitowl examinations              Since the merger has bcen agreed
the examinationl        presently involve a vast and               upon, the Goverrwent should
system.                c(mpIex array or dispersed                  (a) by march 1987, pass the
Odmysical facilities and Iusan             legislation giving legal status
resources.  They are extremely             to the new examinatIon body;
expnbisive to administer and remove         (b) agree on the structure and.
from tleir Prescribed duties large         staffing of the new examinatlin
vm4sier of teaciling staff,  rtmspectors,  body as soon as possible.
uumi ulimrs; they monUpnhize for
l1smj igeriods printiiwj facilities at
time Mt'. A decision hias been ade
to mLrye the two examination units
. viz tug Ninistly lhit and tie
WE PumI 18 -amd to abliss standard
rive  .xamjinatlaom.
3.07 Strengthen and           The second Education Plan envisages        The restructuring of MCC would
restructure             the expansion of MCM.  The Ministry         take place by 1988.
Malawi                   or ELkication has prepared proposals
Correspondence           for restructuring the Malawi
College (MCC)           Correspondence College.
3.08 Increase parental       At present, ajttlou4J parents               The Coverrwent will review
contribution             contribute to the cost or                  from time to time parental
to the cost of          ethlcation, there are In-                   contributions at both the
education               equalities In they system as               Whiversity and secondary
ciurmefitly adeinistered.                  schools to bting them In
fly   olmder 1986, toarding fees           line with Inflation   Ihe
fetween "day' and goverrmt                  Goverrwent  ill substantially
iularding arxi aided secondary             Increase fees in MCC to cover
St-iInupib ltavt! tetim emuialized.        the cost of instructional
mateuials.  Primtar  school
pareftth of standardt 4 p4
above wiUl be exoected to
provide their children, with
basic stationery with eflut
from 9"  school year.



-65                                      ANNEXA
Pag   l  of 16
Objectives            Status and/or Action Taken                 Action to be Campleted Durin
by December 1986                           the Period 1987-1991
3.09 To improve the        (a) At present there are variations        The Plan is to equalize where
cost efficiency       among schools in student staff ratios      practical,student staft ratios
of the system.        at secondary level with aided schools      In all schools. By 1987/08,
having the lowest ratios of (16:1) and   the ratios wAtl be raised on
the day schools the highest (21:1).       average to 25:1. A system
of yearly review Cof class
(b) Ratios of student staff in the        size and ratios will be
vocational technical schools               In place.
will be raised.
Student staff ratios at
vocational schools including
the Polytechnic Board of
Governorso courses will be
carefully monitored and
subjected to annual reviews.
These ratios will be raised
to 20:1 by year 1991.
3.10 Full utilization       Studies have revealed that (a)             The Goverrnment will review the
of existing            boarding accommodations in girls           University adaission policies
capacity at            dormitories in Chancellor College          with a view to ensuring that
Chancellor             are underutilized; (b) Chancellor          for 1987/88 all accomunodations
College.               College could enroll a further             will be utilized.  The target
250 students without the need             student/teacher ratios In
to lncrease staff; and (c) the            all departments will be
present student staff ratio is            achieved by 1989/90. These
well below the acceptable                  ratios will be subject to
minimm of 10:1 In the                      annual reviews, preferably
sciences and 12:1 in the arts.            at the annual review
sessions.
3.11 Reduction in the        To reduce the capital and                  A secondary school  Mpping
proportion of           recurrent cost of secondary                exercise  will be Initiated
secondary               schools, the policy of                     and completed by March 1987.
students                providing all secondary                    This will be used to
requiring               schools with boarding                      develop a location policy
boarding.               facilities should be reviewed.             for day schools. Such a
policy should be ready by
December 1987.



- 66 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT               ANNEX B
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT               Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF M-RLWI
Methodology for Expenditure Projections
Government expenditures are projected on the basis of 1984/85
unit public cost estimates. Unit cost at eack. level of education is
generally subdivided into three components: 6alaries; tuition (which refers
to school materials in Malawi) and boarding; and other expenditures. The
following steps are followed:
1. Enrollments are projected on the basis of an average annual
growth rate that is stated in the Plan, These figures
reflect the government's intention to expand access at
post-primary levels. For all government assisted secondary
schools. The figures reflect present and targetted
enrollments and a change in the composition of enrollment
within these schools, as the share of students in government
boarding schools is expected to drop from 8 to 6%.
2. Expenditures to support the enrollments are then obtained.
Salary expenditures are computed as the product of 1984/85
average salaries times the number of teachers required to
support the projected enrollments. In turn, the required
number of teachers is obtained from target student/teacher
ratios. In secondary education the target student/teacher
ratio of 25:1 by 1995 (achieved incrementally from 1984/85
levels of 22:1) to compute numbers of teachers for different
types of secondary school teachers are not expected to change
over the Plan period. Boarding and other cost components are
simply projected on the basis of per student estimates in
these components are the aggregated to compute total gross
expenditures over the Plan period, shown in Table A2.
3. Revenues generated within each level of education are then
projected on the basis proposed adjustments to 1984/85 per
student levels. Where possible, these revenues are
subdivided into fees and other revenues. Revenues are then
subtracted from gross expenditures to obtain net expenditure
figures. These net expenditures are the required budgetary
allocations.
The Jimenez working paper shows the projected expenditures for all
non-primary levels of education, using the steps outlined above. These
tables are the output of LOTUS spreadsheets, in which the 1984/85 figures
In the column labelled "Actual" are used as data inputs.  These figures are
taken from budget data and education statistics provided by the Ministry of
Education and Cultute. The gross and net expenditure figures are then
brough forward to form the Table B.1 on page 5 of this Annex.



-67 -                    ANNEX B
Page 2 of 5
At present the tot#l private cost to the student is K753. At
this price, there were 60,000 applicants for 6,900 Form 2 places. Assum a
constant elasticity demand curve:
, Apb
where A, b are parasetets, q is the demand for a form I place and p is the
total private. cost to the student. The elasticity of demand with respect
to total private cost is b. Under the following assumptions for b, the
value of A would be:
b a Private                        Implied
Assumption           Cost Elasticity         A          Fee Elasticity
(AL)  unit elasticity            -1.0         45.180 x 106        -.0266
(A2)  elastic demand             -2.0        34,020.54 x 106      -.0531
*Notice that the implied fee elasticity is very low because of the
relatively small share of fees in private cost (31).
At present, the government allocates about S - K1.684 million ln
subsitdies for form 1 students.  The equation defining the subsidy
aLlocation is:
S * (c - p) q
where c is the unit social cost of providing.a secondary school place.
Under a fixed subsidy allocation, the form of this equation (depicted as a
curvilinear relationship in Figure Al) is:
1.684 x 106 - (997 - p) q
The fee increase that would allow enrollment to be maximized,
given a subsidy allocation and the utilization of fee reenue to expand
available school places, is dependent upon the demand curve assumpton.
This fee is called the equilibrium fee.
P*
Equilibrium  Old Fee  Total Private        q*
Equilibrium      Fee as      as Z   Cost at Equil.  Equilibrium
Assumption:       Fee         S of c       of o        Fee         Enrollment
(Al): -1.0       228          86.4         7.6          961           47,005
(A2): -2.0       219          83.0         7.6          952           37,528
Under both assumptions, even when demand is relatively elastic, a sub-
stantial fee Increase can be accommodated without Impinging on enrollment.



- 68 -
ANNEX B
page 3-of5
The primary subsector Is treated as a residual: budget
allocations to primary are obtained by substracting net expenditures on
non-primary levels from projected education budgetary allocations.
Expenditures on primary are then divided into two components; primary
teacher training and primary education enrollment. These are allocated by
first estimating expenditures on primary teacher training, following the
same steps as outlined above. The rate of growth of enrollment of primary
teacher training takes Into account the required number of teachers, given
proposed student/teacher ratios in primary education. Expenditures on
primary education are then obtained by subtracting expenditures on primary
teacher training from projected primary subsector allocations. These are
shown In Table B1.
The amount left for primary education depends upon assumptions
made about the education budget share. These 7 assumptions are presented
in Table 3.2 of the text. Table Bel of this annex presents the results
only for scenario 7 - high budgetary share, low cost recovery and
quantitative restrictions on higher education expansion. These figures are
then fed into the EDFISMO model developed by M. Zymelman to obtain the
primary enrollments which are possible under alternative assumptions about
qualitative improvements in primary education.
Greater Cost Recovery
Further resource mobilization through greater cost recovery can
assist the governmet to meet Plan targets, particularly if education's
share in the overall budget does not grow to 12.8X. For efficiency and
equity reasons, it is desirable to consider increased user fees at
secondary and university levels. There is presently excess demand for
these low levels. It can be shown that a fee level of up to [219 (compared
to the present fee revenue per student of [19) can be sustained at
secondary level without adversely affecting enrollment at that level.
Similar increases in magnitudes hold for university education. Moreover,
more students would be served if funds thus generated are used to expand
cheaper primary education. These ideas are worked out In the following
paragraphs.
The annual unit recurrent cost to the government of
formal secondary education Is K264. The annual private cost to a student,
net of fees paid to government, is K733 (K600 opportunity cost + K133
materials, uniforms, transport, incidentals). Average fee collection per
student by the government is K20 per annnum (boarding fees are K60, and
only 8% of students pay them, so average collection is [5; tuition fees are
K30, but average collection is K15). Assundag constant costs, the cost
structure for Malawi is depicted in Figure 1.



- 69 -
MAuIII  B
ES6g 4 of 5  
I/student
997
f , p.           *     - se  ,
*            *
6,900          q      60,00            lbes of
For    sd
I       S        I~~~



-78-                       ~~~~~ANNEX B
-70-                                     o 
Table B.1..1Nalaw: Projections of Recurrent Expenditure, 1986-95
Growth Actual ProJected ProJected ProJected ProJected ProJected Projected ProJected ProJected Projected ProJected
Fiscal Year          1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     199S
Year Nuber              0         1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8        9        10
85 Kwacha 000
Tot. goverre 3.5% 417,035 431,631.2 446,738.3 462,374.2 478,557.3 495,306.8 512,642.5 530,585.0 549,155.5 568,375.9 588,269.1
Education     6.7%39,259.0 41,901.0 44.720.7 47,730.2  50,942.3  54,370.4  58,029.3  61,934.4  66,102.3  70,550.7  75,298.4
Gross of rev     41,188.0 44,493.5  47,462.5  50,633.1  54,019.3  57,636.2  61,500.0 65,627.9  70,038.5  74,751.9 79,789.5
Secondary   4.8% 5,552.5  5,802.0  6,068.1  6,351.2  6,652.3  6,972.2  7,311.8  7,672.2  8,054.4  8,459.6  8,889.0
VTE        14.9%  543.2    624.1    717.1    823.9    946.7  1,087.7  1,249.8  1,436.0  1,650.0  1,895.9  2,178.3
MCC        11.0%  824.9    915.6  1,016.3  1,128.1  1,252.2  1,389.9  1,542.8  1,712.5  1,900.9  2,110.0  2,342.1
&d6ov Poly  4.0% 1,056.6  1,098.9  1,142.8  1,188.5  1,236.1  1,285.5  1,336.9  1,390.4  1,446.0  1,503.9  1,564.0
Uni%ersity  3.2% 8,652.6  8,906.5  9,174.1  9,455.7  9,751.2  10,061.1  10,385.5  10,724.9  11,079.5  11,449.9  11,836.4
Admin A 0th  3.5% 6,736.3  6,972.0  7,216.1  7,468.6  7,730.0  8,000.6  8,280.6  8,570.4  8,870.4  9,180.8  9,502.2
TotNon-prim 4.5X23,365.9 24,319.1  25,334.5 26,416.1  27,568.5 28,797.1 30,107.5 31,506.5 33,001.2  34,600.0 36,312.1
Prim & PTTC 9.3117,822.1  20,174.4 22,128.0 24,217.0 26,450.8 28,839.2  31,392.5 34,121.4 37,037.3  40,151.9 43.477.4
Primary     8.7116,283.3  18,412.7  20,110.3  21,905.2  23,801.2  25,801.6 27,909.0 30,125.5  32,452.3  34,889.7 37,436.6
PT         14.1X 1,538.8  1,761.7  2,017.8  2,311.8  2,649.5  3,037.6  3,483.5  3,995.9  4,585.0  5,262.2  6,040.8
Educ Revenue      1,928.9  2,592.5  2,741.8  2,902.8  3,077.0  3,265.8  3,470.7  3.693.5  3,936.2  4,201.2  4,491.0
Net of rev       39,259.0 41,901.0 44,720.7  47,730.2  50,942.3  54,370.4 58,029.3  61,934.4  66,102.3  70,550.7  75,298.4
Secondary   4.6% 5,141.3  5,292.7  5,533.6  5,790.2  6,063.4  6,353.8  6,662.4  6,990.0  7,337.7  7,706.6  8,097.7
VTE        14.9%  343.2    394.3    453.0    520.5    598.1    687.2    789.6    907.3  1,042.4  1,197.8  1.376.2
MCC        11.0%  605.6    672.2    746.1    828.2    919.3  1,020.4  1,132.6  1,257.2  1.395.5  1,549.0  1.719.4
BdSov Poly  4.0%  890.7    926.4    963.4  1,002.0  1,042.0  1,083.7  1,127.1  1,172.2  1,219.0  1,267.8  1,318.5
University  2.51 7,985.2  7,743.5  7,964.7  8,197.8  8,443.1  8,700.6  8,970.6  9,253.4  9,549.1  9,858.3  10,181.2
MAcin & 0th 3.5X 6,471.0  6,697.5  6,931.9  7,174.5  7,425.6  7,685.5  7,954.5  8,232.9  8,521.1  8,819.3  9.128.0
TotNon-prim 4.0X21,437.0 21,726.5  22,592.7  23,513.2  24,491.5 25,531.3 26,636.9  27,813.0  29,065.0 30,398.8 31.821.1
Prim & PTTC 9.3117,822.1  20,174.4 22,128.0 24,217.0 26,450.8  28,839.2 31,392.5 34,121.4 37,037.3  40,151.9 43,477.4
Primary     8.7X16,283.3  18,412.7  20,110.3  21,905.2  23,801.2  25,801.6  27,909.0 30,125.5 32.452.3  34,889.7 37.436.6
PTT        14.7% 1,538.8  1,761.7  2,017.8  2,311.8  2,649.5  3,037.6  3,483.5  3,995.9  4,585.0  5,262.2  6,040.8
Net education95Targ
as X tA. gov 12.8%    9.41      9.7%    10.0%    10.31    10.6%    11.0%    11.3%    11.7%    12.0%    12.4%    12.8%
Secondary           13.11    12.6%    12.4%    12.1%    11.9%    11.7%    11.51    11.3%    11.l1        10.9%    10.81
VTE                 0.9%      0.9%      1.0%     1.1%     1.2%      1.3%     1.41      1.51     1.6%      1.71     1.8%
NCC                  1.5%     1.6%      1.7%     1.7%     1.81      1.9%     2.0%      2.01     2.11      2.21     2.31
Dd6ov Poly          2.31      2.21     2.2%      2.11     2.0%      2.0%     1.9%      1.9%     1.8%      1.8%     1.81
University          20.3%    18.5%    17.8%    17.2%    16.6%    16.0%    15.5%    14.9%    14.41    14.0%    13.5%
Admin & 0th         16.51    16.0%     15.5%    15.0%    14.61    14.1%    13.71    13.3%    12.9%    12.5%    12.1X
Totlon-prim         54.6%    51.9%    50.5%    49.3      48.11    47.0%    45.9%      44.9%    44.0%    43.11    42.31
Prim & PTTC        45.4X    48.1%    49.5%      50.7%    S.9%    53.0%    54.1%    55.1%    56.0%    56.9%    57.7%
Primary            41.5X    43.9%    45.01    45.9%    46.7%    47.51    48.11    48.6%    49.1%    49.5%    49.7%
PTT                 3.91      4.2X     4.5%      4.8%     5.2X      5.6%     6.0%      6.51     6.91      7.5%     8.0%



- 71 -
ANNEX C
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                  Page 1 of 2
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Criteria for the Identification and Appraisal of Schools
From within the proposed priority projects in the Second
Education Plan, the following should be considered for extension,
replacement, or new school construction, furniture and equipment.
A. Primary Schools
(1) priority should be given to identified districts in which
the student:classroom ratio is above the national average,
beginning with the most disadvantaged districts;
(2) schools with enrollments of over 100 pupils per class;
(3) wherever local conditions permit, underenrolled schools in a
given catchment area, where the total enrollment in a
consolidated new school, or extension to the most adequate
existing school could exceed 150 students;
(4) location of the scaool should take into consideration:
access road, rivers, and meas of comnication, the
terrain, the students'age, number of sessions, and the time
required to cover the distance from home to school, so that
student should not have more than about three miles to walk.
B. Secondary Schools
(1)  preference should be given to disadvantaged areas with no
secondary schools;
(2) as much as possible, schools should be located in an given
catchment area, where enrollment would be sufficient to
avoid boarding;
(3) establishment of flexible design standard for secondary
school, laboratories, and workshops, so that the facillties
could be adjusted with changes in curriculum, so that
utilization factor would not be less than 70 percent for
labs and workshops and 80 percent for classrooms.



- 72 -
ANNEX C
Page z ot 2
Possible format of Sample Appraisal Reports to be Prepared by the Appraisal
Commit tees for Review bI the SLank
For each sample item in each project nd sub-project, the
following should be incloded:
(1) objective(s) as compared with policy, strategies, and
targets;
(2) brief background statement: historical perspective, past
trends ln enrollment, local conditions, special features;
(3)  brief description of item: land status and size, type of
item with special characteristics (boarding, MY? ratio,
subject specisliation), capacity of item, and specialized
features;
(4)  justification for inclusion of ites: appraisal criteria,
local requirements, implementation proposal and capability,
admlnistration and monitoring;
(5)  enrollment projections (table) *nd 'catcbment area (school
mapping);
(6)  boarding capacity and justification (if applicable):
criteria for admission;
(7)  staffing requirements, including detailed staffing needs
(table) by specialization, number, and qualification;
(8)  schedule of accommodation, areas and costing;
(9)  education worksheet;
(10) equipment and furniture lists with cost estimates (equipment
specification at a later stage);
(11)  overall cost summary (with foreign ewohange and contingency
allowance estimates) by category and project items;
(12)  proposed timetable for implementation, broken down by
category (design, site works, construction, procurement,
staff development, etc.);
(13)  proposals for monitoring and evaluation;
(14)  estimate of recurrent expenditure; and
(15) benefits and risks - measures taken to limit the rlsks.



-7-                                  iiIe  of" 22
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF EDUCATION SERVICE
AT THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
Table of Contents
Pages
A. INTRODUCTION
Scope of Annex .........................                           1
Outline of Annex                                                   1
B. STRUCTURE, ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS .......................    1
Organization Structure 2.....2
Operational Organizations Chart: Education & Culture                  3
Organization Chart - Government of Malawi                             4
Organizational Structure of MOEC by Functions         ....            5
Organization Chart for Regional Educational Administration .....    6
Organization Chart for District Educational Administration .....    7
Management and Administrative Systems                              8
Planning System                                                    8
Educational Inspection System                                      8
Bducation Administrative System                                    9
Administrative Support Services System                             9
C. PLANNING, PROGRAMING, BUDGETING, MONITORING AND.............
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES
Planning and Programing Processes ..........................    10
Budgeting Process                                                  11
Monitoring Process                                                 11
Staff Development                                                  12
D. PROBLEM AREAS AND MANAGEMENT ISSUES
Management System                                                  13
Administrative Procedures                                          13
Planning, Programming and Budgeting                                14
Secondary &.hool Inspection .....14
Staff Development and Incentlves ............................    14
Percent of Post Primary Academic Institutions                      15 -16
Inspected Between 1973/74 and 1985/86 as of
June 4, 1986
Civil Service Salary Structure In the Ministry                     17
of Education and Culture
E. RECOMMENDATIONS *                                                  18 - 19



ANNEX D
- 74                           Pag=e 2 of 22
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF EDUCATION SERVICE
AT THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        Scope of Annex: Expansion of access to quality primary and
secondary education is one of the key objectives of the Government's Second
Ten Year education plan. In view of the many new initiatives being
undertaken during this period to improve the efficency of education, this
annex reviews and evaluates the current capacity of MOEC to carry out
its role under the Second Education Plan.
2.        Outline of Annex: The first section describes the current
structure, organisation and functions of MOEC. The following sections
identifies problem areas and sector recommendations.
B. STRUCTURE, ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
3.        In Malawi, the provision of services within the education sector
is the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Culture
(MOEC). For all practical purposes, policy setting is the responsibility
of the office of the President and Cabinet (OPC). Main policies are
endorsed by the National Development Committee (NDC) which is cha.'red by
the President who delegates to the Secretary of the President and Cabinet
(SPC), who Is also head of OPC. Supporting services are provided by OPC
through its Economic Planning and Development Department (EPD), and the
Department of Personnel and Manpower Training (DPMT); Ministry of Finance,
and Ministry of Local Government (MOLG). Other ministries also play
important roles in the provision of special education services outside the
current line mandate of MOEC. These include Ministry of Agriculture
(agricultural training); hinistry of Community Development (adult
literacy); Ministry of Health (health and medical personnel training);
Ministry of Labor (civil service training); Ministry of Works and Supplies
(apprenticeship), Ministry of Youth and Culture (youth training).
4.        The relationship between MOEC and other ministries which are
education service stakeholders is characterized by vertical communication
between personnel in permanent line structures. OPC serves as a link
between line and sectoral ministries. Informal mech_nisms hardly pass the
OPC channel of communication.
5.        The formal structure of Government requires all line/sectoral
ministries to submit their annual proposals for allocation from domestic or
foreign development and recurrent budget to EPD/OPC for endorsement prior
to submission to the Ministry of Finance. However, submissions to EPD/OPC
are only for review, consolidation, recording and filing purposes; not for
approval. It was not clear throughout the time of visit who actually
approves donor financing of education or other development projects. And
Malawi may not be unique in this respect.



ANEX D
- 75 -                            Page 3 of 22
Organization Structure
6.        Formal organizational structure aa4 operating systems divide and
coordinate the work of its members. Figues IA and IB present an overview
of the current formal structure of (OIC as were drawn up or made available
by the staff of MOEC. There was confusion, however, as to what the formal
structure actually is.  The major reason for this ambiguity lies ln the
fact that MOEC has proposed, designed and submitted to OPC for approval, an
expanded formal structure. The new structure originates In part from ideas
in the review of the CiLvil Service structures (1985). The new proposed
structure had not been approved by end of June 1986. It was not clear when
the new structure would be approved or become operational. The Civil
Service Review report has not been approved officially.
7.        The overall division of labor within MOEC is based on its varied
functions and tasks (education planning, education administration,
Inspection; personnel and accounts, etc.). Corresponding to each function
is a departmental, divisional, sectional or office "box" as shown In figure
IC. The differences between charts IA and IB illustrate differences
between the official and the operational views of the structure of MOEC.
Chart IA was prepared by staff of planning divisiou, and therefore
represents their view of the structure of MOEC. Chart IB is the official
chart which is made available to "missions". The official chart does not
include the statutory bodies. Also, it reflects official emphasis on
status as indicated after each position in the hierarchical structure.
Chart IC presents the functional view of the organizational structure of
NOEC.
8.        Both charts IA and IB do not show regiongl and district level
structures. These are shown separately In charts ID (Regional Structure)
and IE (District Structure).  The organization of WOEC is characterized by
a highly centralized verticW  structue of authority between MOEC
headquarters and the regional anAd district levels with little, if any,
horizontal coordination between subsectors.



ftur U w_                               tt. um  o
bof fiwtve .Otm* al ltes t bF1 |eg                                          j __. et- ;,
I  _  _  __   ._                                 _   _   _   _   ___I.II
- 1,~(io                    (et srt)  Zaf bte             {                 et   t          It t                    _ "
I                                                                                     MI _e bg  I   tc._V.Sme .)a to"t
e    a 1   of-" lO)                  14 f")   st"                                       I    46" 4.4811-- 7    evet  11"e"e"s t-b
-we et         _e                                                                               to
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt  Gei  asse   f  T"                                   5'
T   T    2                                         T           m
JL~rLLTT                                                                                                            T
T                                                         M            pa
KEY
(CEO)2 - Chief Education Officer
(SEO)2 - Senior Education Officer
SEO    a Senior Executive Officer
CO     - CLerical Officer
x N    - Number of Staff Presently
in Position
I> t'



ANIEX D
77                          5 uf 22
FIGURE 1 B
LLk -4tam -sJI
ON  ---s
4-~ ~ ~~           u
a-Kt
Lii
f 1  r4
!~  vL41
_____               U.-'
s;   |       ,.,.              b  Z         <~~~~~~



-78 -
ANNEX D
ii1  {l   kZ  hl                                 Page 6f 22
i z~~~I
f    ii
ii            td
X,         i      L 
3. 
i             i    4T{ 1



AINEX D
79                               -j!cPae 7 of 22
FIGUE I D
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR
REGIONAL EDCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION
(Prototype)
REGIONAL EDUCATION OFFICER (REO)
ASSISTANT REO                       ASSISTANT REO
(ADMINISTRATION)                       (INSPECTION)
REGIONAL
ROME
PERSONNEL    ACCOUNTS    GENERAL                 ECONOMICS
DUTIES               ORGANIZERS



-80-                        ~~~~~~~ANNEX D
- 80 -                                Page 8 of 22
FIGURE I E
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR
DISTRICT EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION
(Prototype)
REGIONAL EDUCATION OFFICER (REO)
I
l
DISTRICT EDUCATION OFFICER (DEO)
I
ASSISTANT DEO
l
l
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I            ~~I                 .1 
DISTRICT            DISTRICT         ACCOUNTS         ADMINISTRATION
INSPECTORS             HOME
OF SCHOOLS          ECONOMICS
ORGANIZERS



- 81 -                                   ANNEX D
Page 9 of 22
Management and Administrative Systems
9.        There are presently four different systems operating under the
general supervision of the Principal Secretary (PS) assisted by a Deputy
Secretary (DS). These are: i) the educational planning system; it) the
educational inspection system; iii) the educational administration system;
and iv) the administrative support services system. There are no
horizontal links between these systems. Each is viewed as being basically
independent of all the others. This view is reinforced by the behavioral
tendency to view the organizational structure In terms of departmental
'boxes" rather than its mission and functional "boxes".
Planning System
10.       Educational planning Is officially carried out by the Planning
Division of the MOWC. The specific official functions of the Planning
Division include 1/ i) identification, preparation and appralsal of
education development projects; iI) supervision and evaluation of on-going
education development projects; Ii1) promotion of efficiency and equity In
the development of the education system; lv) carrying out studies on
various aspects of the education system; v) collecting, collating,
analyzing and interpreting educational statistics; and vi) preparing
project submissions to EPD (Department of Economic Planning and
Development, OPC). Educational economics and statistics functi%ns of the
Planning Division are performed by seconded staff from EPD and NSO
(National Statistic Office), respectively. Allocations and relocations of
seconded staff are done by the respective "common service" Government
Departments, sometimes without consul ations with the concerned minlstry or
its department or division.
Educational Inspection System
11.       While the Department of Inspectorate is almost exclusively
responsible for school and educational Inspection at the secondary level,
the Department of Educational Administration is responsible for Inspecting:
1) primary schools and primary education; il)primwry school teacher
training; ili) technical schools and technical education; and iv)
correspondence schools and correspondence education through the Malawi
Correspondence College (MCC) which is under the section of Secondary and
Correspondence in the department of education administration. Field
supervision of primary schools mnd primary education is done by regional
and dlstriet level staff using guidelines provided by the headquarters.
Field level supervision, as well as administration of secondary schools,
primary teacher training, technical education, and correspondence education
are centralized at the headquarters.
1/ Refer to attachment I, page 1.



- 82 -.                           ANNEx D
Page 10 of 22
Education Administration System
12.       Educational administration is generally the responsibility of the
Departmentof Education Administration. Except primary educational
administration, all other academic education levels (except University of
Malawi w.Lch is a statutory body under MOEC as a parent ministry) are
centrally administered from the headquarters. At the primary level,
however, there are two administrative and managoment systems, namely:
1) MOEC system operated through RIO's and DEO's; and ii) local Government
system operated (for primary educational purposes) through the District
Councils which constitute the local Educatiou Authorities (LEA), The DEO
is the mafin lnk between the two systems at the district level, while the
RIO is the main link at the regional level. The DEO is the executive
secretary of LEA, while both REO AND DRO are members of the District
Development Committee (DDC).
Adminstrative Support Services 8ystem
13.       The department of Administrative Support Services 2/ is under
the supervlsion of Under Secretary (US) and consists of personnel
administrat.on and    smag t and accounts. All staff of this department
are seconded from elther DPMT (Personnel Vanagement and Administration) or
Ministry of Finance (MINFIN) (Accounts and Audit). Allocation and
relocation of staff In this department is the sole prerogative of DPMT,
iINFIN or other "common service" ministries or departments. For example,
it is not uncommon to hear, "They are not our budgetary obligation,"
Implying that seconded staff from "common service" ministries and
departments are not part of the education budget system or process.
2J The department 1i titled here as Support Services Department, largely
because of Its characteristic functions.  The departmeat does not have
an all-embracing title as such.



-83-                                  ANNEX D
Page 11 of 22
C. PLANNING, PROGRAMNING, BUDGETING, MONITORING AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES
Planning and Programming Processes
14.       Since independence (1964) and up until 1968, education planning
process was participative, involving local up to district levels. Between
1968 and 1985, education planning and education development programs
emerging from the process depended largely on external finance, donor
designs and donor perceptions of Malawi's eduction development needs. In
that period (1968-85), the Planning Division served mainly public relations
and administrative roles as well as link between EPD and higher decision
levels of the Ministry and the Government. As of end of June 1986, the
Planning Division of L'OEC was still serving that role. This is not
necessarily because of deliberate desi3n and resource (i.e. budget)
constraints, but largely because of disoriented institutional development
design.
15.       The first real attempt at planning for the evolution of the
education system since the introductior of formal education in Nalawi
resulted in the First Education Plan (1973-80). The Plan, which was
prepared through external assistance, provided guidelines for the
development of the education system during the plan period. The second
attempt resulted in the Second Education Plan (1985-1995). After more than
twelve years after the preparation of the First Plan, the Second Education
Plan was also prepared through external (personnel and financial)
assistance.
16.       In summary terms, the following are the characteristics of
education development plaas produced by the Planning Diviston through
donors (or, more appropriately, by donors through the planning division):
i) They present ideas and statements of intent;
ii) They lack a systematic implementation strategy and schedule.
17.       As of January 1986, and folllowing the results of a problem
identification mini-workshop (two days), the district levels have been
asked to prepare five year education development plans. By mid-June 1986,
all districts had submitted their district education plans to the
headquarters. Unfortunately, there is no mechanism or even staff capacity
for consolidating district plans at either the regional or headquarter
levels. In the first place, district plans should have been produced well
before the preparation and production of the Second Education Plan. It is
presently difficult to predict what ls going to substantively Cone Of the
already prepared and produced district education plans. A more meaningful
approach would have been to ask districts to prepare detailed annual
education plans, which would be consolidated into an annual education plan
of MOEC. But NOEC does not currently have a mechanism for annual education
plans and programm.



84-                                  ANN-  D
Pe o12 of 22
18.       Officially, MOEC through the planning division it  supposed.to-
prepare periodic education plans and submit them to 8PD for review and
consolidation. After EPD reviews the education plan, It sends it to the
Ministry of Finance for further review, consolidation and presentation to
the National Development Council (NDC) for approval. However, because of
budgetary constraints and other considerations, 3pD prepares a consolidated
program of public investment for mediu to long term only if comitimets
are clearly identifiable and verifiable through both the client ministry
and the Ministry of Finance. In most all cases where foreign commitments
have been secured, the NDC would approve of the concerned sector public
investment program. In general, there cannot be an investment program
without clearly identified and comitted external obligations.
Budgeting Proces.
19.       There are two types of budgets In Malawit i) the recurrent
budget; and il) the development budget. The distinction between the two
budgets is rather complex in operational terms. More often than not,
recurrent budget items or "slots' are created through development budget
"slots". This includes domestic strategies for creating a post or
expanding a structure. The only sure way of creating a permanent recurrent
budgetary item is through the development budget process.
20.       At the present time, there is no relationship between planning*
programming and budgeting processes. Annual budgets (except donor
commitments and obligations) are based on a 5Z scale-up of the previous
year's budget. This implies that whatever was a budget item in the
previous year remains to be so ever after, regardless of its value and
justification, which are not usually asked for.
21.       The annual budgeting process usually starts around
October/November at the field level, and around November/December at the
headquarters level. By the end of November, field levels are supposed to
have submitted their budgetary requirements for the succeeding fiscal year
(April-March). Headquarters levels are required to have consolidated all
field level budget requirements by mid-December and submitted sectoral
budget requirements to EINFIN by end of December of each year.
Monitoring Proce8s
22.       Presently, the Planniug Division per s  dos not wioutor
education plan impl%mentation. The Plan Implemnttion Unit (PIU) monitors
and supervises the implementation of educatioiL development projects
financed by the World Bank. For all practical purpoose, PIU does not vlew
itself as part of the Planning Division of VOEC. The major reason for this
state of affairs originates Is the original design and financing of PIU by
the World lank, and the status of PIU msnager vis-a-vis the head of the
Planning Division.



ANNEX D
85-                                  a13 of 22
23.       Monitoring of educational activities at the primary level is the
responsibility of both regional and district eduation aduiListration.  The
headquarters requires each of the regional and district education managers
to prepare and submit quarterly and semi-annual reports using guidelines
and formats provided by the headquarters. There is close coordination
between KOEC's regional/district enior education staff and the LkA's.
Supervision of educational activities .it post-primaty levels (primary
teacher training, secondary education; correspondence education, and
technical/vocational education) is centralized at the headquarters where
two departments - Inspectorate and Educaton Administration - are jointly
responsible.
Staff Development
24.       Staff development activities of WOEC are presently unstructured
and unsystematic. MOEC alleges that tbere exists a Staff Training Office
(STO) under the primary section of the Department of Education
Administration. Although it is not clear what the specific
responsibilities of the STO are, the STO has only one staff - a relatively
junior staff. There is also anotber training office under the inspectorate
department responsible for coordinating In-service training inspectorate
staff. There is little, if any, coordination netween the two different
training offices in the two different depatments.
25.       There are presently one vaek annual seminar programs for DRO'.,
R0O's, secondary school headmastore and headquarters personnel 3/. These
seminars are not focused, and their implementation is ad hoc anT dependent
upon availability of finance.
26.       Civil service staff development activities li  officially the
responsibility of DPNT which acts as a "clearing house" for all in-service
training. Each ministry prepares its staff development plan and a staff
in-service training programs, submits It to DPMT, which in turn budgets and
Identifies sources of finance. The annual in-service training budget
allocation to DPIT is around HR 1.0 million for local programs and around
MK 1.6 million for overseas programs. The latter is essentially
counterpart funds for donor financed scholarships and consists mainly of
salaries and family allowances for staff in overseas training. 4/
3/ Refer to Attachment IV.
4/ Staff In overseas training receive full salary fot the first two years
and one thlrd of their salary (family allowance) thereafter.



-86-                                 ANNEX D
Page 14 of 22
D  pQBLEM AREAS AND JNMAUEGMNT ISSUES
Nanagement System
27.       Although MOEC management has expanded in the last twenty years in
response to the rapidly developing education system in Malawi; management
practices, methods and procedures have not responded adequately to the
needs of managing a developiug education system. Budget allocations as a
percentage of GDP have remained essentially the same and declining in the
past five years. Staff capacity (both numbers and skills) is critically
short, especially in the area of inspection and education planning.
28.       Decision-making process is highly centralizii4 at the Principal
Secretary level. Factors which encourage centralization include cultural
respect for authority; subordinates wait for superior decisions and
superiors expect such deference; formal structures that assign
responsibility for decisions at the top; external threats associated with
wrong decisions call for top level involvement.
29.       There is no effective horizontal linkage, coordination and
communication. Part explanation for this state of affairs include i) lack
of a mechanism for management interaction; and iI) tendency to view the
management of education service in terms of departments and departmental
"boxes" rather than in terms of functions. As a result of the latter,
management performance problems have been frequently associated with
inadequate budget, staff shortage and "thin" management structures.
Administrative Procedures
30.       Salaries of all education staff, including field staff, are
processed at the headquarters. They are prepared in Lilongwe, sent to
Blantyre for computerization, and then back to Lilongwe for payment. The
process causea delays in the payment of primary school ceachers salaries.
It was reported that primary school teachers in distant (relative to
Lilongwe) districts have their salaries delayed for at least a month.
31.       All orders for permanent and conuumable primary education
equipment are sent through MOEC headquarters where they are charged against
a Fees Treasury Fund. Also, all orders for Government Day Secondary
Schools are sent throngh HOEC headquarters. Boarding Government Secondary
School, however, purchase all materials directly.
32.     - The collection of primary school fees is done by collectors hired
through DEO's. The collection process takes about three months to collect
a total of about MK 2.5 million at a collector's cost of about MK 0.5
millilon (20X). This process requires substantial improvement to save
coats.



ANNEX D
-87 -                                 Page 15 of 22
Planning, Programming and BudgetIng
33.       There is presently no systematic linkage between education
development plans, programs and budget. Recurrent budget allocations are
based on a 5% annual increase over the past year's levels. This practice
of "blowing up" recurrent budgets by a constant pereentage point has the
danger of financing unnecessary or "empty" expenditure items. Also, there
is no mechanism for annual systematic reviews of recurrent budget
expenditure items.
34.       While the decision to involve district levels in the }lanning
process sh-uld be commended, a mechanism for consolidating district plans
and giving them operational effect should be established at both regional
and headquarter levels.
Secondary School Inspection
35.       Because of the shortage of inspection staff on the one part and
inadequate transport support on the other part, inspection and supervision
of secondary education have been poorly performed in the past five years as
showu in Table I and Chart 1. The most important problem attributed to
this poor performance has been cited as lack of transport. However,
because of the cost of petrol and maintenance of ministry vehicles
allocated to district and regional offices, MOEC has recently grounded at
least a vehicle from each region. The problem seems therefore to be lack
of adequate vehicle operating budget rather than lack of vehicles.
Staff DeveloLwnt and Incentives
36.       The present staff and skill capacity for the planning,
programming and budgeting staff development activities in MOEC is
critically short. The proposal in the Second Education Plan to develop the
present Staff Training Office lito a Staff Development Unit should be
considered seriously and immediate action taken.



Table 1:    ALAWt CIISR  OF EUCATM  AlM  tLTE
Percent of Post Primary Academic Institutions Inocted Bctwe.n 1978)74 and 1986/86
(As of June 4, 1986)
Category                                                                          Academic Year
1978/4   1974/6   1976/8   1978/7   1977/        8 1976/9   1979/80  1980/1   1981/2    1962/8   198J/4   1984/6  1985/6
A. Secondary Schools            78       87        62       49       84        88       79       29        29        59        12       25       22
00
1. Government               88       8        61        49       90        92       82       27        86        C6        14       28       26  1
2. Private                  49       so        10       60       60        790      e        40         9        8                  is        0
B. Other                         -       12        0         0       46        46       15        8        23        63        1S       SI       6
1. Teacher Training          -       12        a         0       60        60       26       12        S7        62         0       2S        0
(TTC)
2. T*cbaicel                 -        -         -        -       40        40        a        a         0        40        40
Total A   B                     69       78       46        43       77       St        67       26        26        68        12       26      18
- ---------             ---- ------------          -----------      --- ------  -- ------ --- --       -  -    
Soutce:n teecatorate Deartmet, MOEC                                                                                                              d1g
sI



0'S~~~  !tI itS iC aE -
a X                           I_ e  -|DNl
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ;, I~.    
I .1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
I  .                            :L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
I   I~~~~~~
I  I                             I%a~~~~~~



TABLE 2: CIVIL SERVICE SALA   STRUCTWE Do THE MMISI  OF EUCATUN M CLTWE-
--- -  ,-  -- --
Aerage                           Avorage     Nlxanme Nuabr
Anual Salary   Anual lucre.m  Monthly Saloary     Montly Tar       of Yeers in
POeSton                                Scale/Status      Qualifications   (Entry; Bar)       In Salary     (Entry; Bar)   at Entry Point  Position Before
(MIC)                    (3)~~~~                                     ~~ (3  Reaching Bar
1. Principal Secretary                                   Presidential   19,468; 11,656           2           874; saa            U                8
-p"nt-nt
2. Depty Secrtry                              S4         Preidontial        9490; 10,224        1.5          745; 8SU            18               8
Appoint-nt
3. Chief Inspector of Schools                 Ps       Prootion (UDEC)  6,84f; 9,408           1.85          69M; 764            IT               8
4. Chief Education Officer                    Ps       Promotion (MOEC)  8,346; 9,408          1.85          a96; 764            1?               0
(Aduinistration School)
S. Under Secretary                            Ps        Proeotion (OPC)  ,8140; 9,408          1.85          es; 784             17               8
0. Chief Accountant                           Ps          Prm_tiom        7,624; 6,708         1.8           652; 725           1i                8
Support Servic")                                     (Acc. General)
7. Assistant Chief Inspector                  P        Promotion (MOEC)  7,824; 6,79           1.8          8652; 725            is               8
of Schools
8. Assistant Chif Education                  Ps        Promotion (MOEC)   7,624; 8798          1.8           652; 725            13               6
Offier (Adulaistration)
9. Assistant Ch;if Education                 Pe        Promotion (MOEC)   7,624; 8,7a1         1.1           652; 726            18               e
Officer (Ploning)
i9. Assistnt Chief Accountant                Pe            Prmotion       7,624; ,?780          1.8         062; 725             1S               B
(Ace. Genral)



TABLE 2:   CIVIL SERVICE   IR          C !TUR   IN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CLTtURE
Average                           Average      Max;im  Numer
Annual Salary   Annuat Incrose  Nonthly Salary    Monthly Tax         of Years in
Position                                Scrle/Status       Qualification.    (Entry; Bar)        in Saliry      (Entry; Bar)   at Entry Point  Position  Were
(UK)                               (5)                                (0)         Reaching Bar
11.  Assistant Chief Personnel                 Ps         Promotion (DPUT)   7,824; 8,700           1.3           652; 725            13                8
Officer
12. Principal Inspector of                     P7         Promotion (MOEC)   7,404; 8,124           1.2           817; 677            12                 8
Schools
13. Principal Education Officer                P7         Promotion (MOEC)   7,404; 8,124          1.2            617; 677            12                8
14. Principal Personnel Officer                P7         Promotion (DPMT)   7,404; 8,124          1.2            617; 677            12                 8
15. Principel Accountant                       P7             Promotion      7,404; 8,124          1.2            617; 877            12                 8
(Act. General)
16. Senior Inspector of Schools                P8        Promotion (MOEC)   7,404; 8,124           1.2            617; 877            12                8
17. Senior Education Officer                   P1 Promotion (IOEC)   75092; 7,680                   l.      l C    91; 640             9                8
(Planni6j; Research & Evaluation)
18. Senior Personnel Officer                   P8        Promotion (MOEC)   7,092; 7,600           1.1            591; 84              9                8
19. Executive & Technical Service            B  - 8        Promotion (by    4, 740; 4 804          4.1            895; 687             9                 8
(Si high"'t)       relevant         (el only)
organtartions)
or Entry Point for
Second A hiheor
degreo or
oq"Ute nt
20. Clerical and Technical Assistance                       Promotion (by    1,752; 3,276          4.7            148; 278             5                8
Service (COs/TAs)                                       relevant         (highest)
orgnizations)
or Entry point
for first degree
or equivalnt



TABLE 2:   CIVIL SERVICE SALARY STRUCTURE I. THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND ZULTURE.
Average                          Average       ebxism  Number
Annual Salary  Annual Incres   Monthly Salary      Monthly Tax      of Years in
Pe.                                    Scule/Status      Qualifications    (Entry; Bar)       in Salary      (Entry; Bar)   at Entry Point  P4sition Before
(MC)                             ^()                                (5)        Reaching Bar
21.  u  tddinte Class                         SC            Primary          662; 99W            a.6            46; 9s             8               1
(Ieete  levels) Including                             Eduction
nesaenger and driver.
22. Covernment Teaching Srvic                 T          Preotien fre S_ Ba                  S    an el        as                                 e 1  el
tPrimary Schools)                                      T2 or T8      (se #19 aboe)  (see t19 *ove)  (see tl9 above)  (m  P19 aboe)  (see p19 abo)
T2    ~ MCE + 2  .ars    1,992;1,632           5.1            *1; lM              3                9
TTC- Entry point
for 6ipla  bolders
Ta      IJCE . 2 yorc TTC  90; 1.44               0.7 7S; 117                        J                9
T4             PSLCE          S11; 9W1             4             41; sa              J                9
TS       Primary Education    4W; 04              6.1            40; 67              8                9 
IRt
*  Refer to Attachment S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
e



93                                ANNEX D
Pase 21 of 22
E. RECOMMENDATIONS
39.       Several proposals for improving and strenthening education
management and planning systems are well under way. DPMT in collaboratilon
with MOEC has proposed a consultancy study of Education Management to start
around August 1986 and to be completed before end of CY 1986. This
exercise is part of the on-going civil service review sponsored by DMPT.
It Is recoatended that all interventivas to improve the education
management system be based o-; the recommendations and proposals which would
emerge from the study and subsequent action strategy of MOEC for
lmplementilg them.
40.       NOEr has prepared and submitted to ODA (Overseas Development
Administratil    British) a request for the services of an Education
Planner for i. cial two years. 6/ ODA will more likely respond positively
to the ME0C's request. In addition, MOBC has requested UNDP to Initiate a
process for strenthening education planning and management. 7/ In
response to MOEC s request, UNDP/UNESCO have already sent in country a team
of two short-term consultants consisting of education planning specialist
(six months) and a computer specialist. As part of the team's work, a
workshop for SOBC's senior oificlals was scheduled between June 29 to July
5, 1986. The objectives of the workshop include Identification of a
strateg7 for improving and strenthening education planning and management.
41.       These initiatives have not been clearly thought out and the
necessary coordination undertaken. In order to avoid duplication of
effort, it is recommended that the work of UNDP/UNESCO consultant team be
coordinated and closely linked to the Education Management Consultancy
Study. The results of the two different teams (UNDP/UNESCO and Education
Mangement Study Teams) should be consolidated before a strategy for
implementing recommendations and proposals emergfng from the two processes
is prepared.
42.       Whatever emerges from the consultant studies of the management
and planning of education service, It 'a highly recommended that the
existing one week annual seminar programs for DEO's, REO's, Secondary
School headwasters, and headquarters personnel should be given operational
focus. The specific strategy for doing this is described in detail in
Attachment 4 of this report.
43.       The present Staff Training Office under the Primary Section of
the Education Administration Department should be merged with the Training
Section of the Inspectorate Department and developed into a Staff
Development Unlt which should be department-neutral. As part of developing
and strengthening the Staff Development Unit, two person years of a
training advisor would be required as will short-term in-service training
for senior staff of the Staff Development Unit. 8/
6/ Refer to Attachment V
7/ Refer to Attachment VI.
8/ Terms of Reference for the Training Advisor are 'a Annex
of Attachment 4.



94 *                               ANNEX D
_ _                          P~~~~~~~age W2 of 2 2
44.       It is highly recommended that the senior management of MOEC
constitute a Management Co'qittee with a regular meetings schedule. This
Management Committee should serve as a steering committee for all education
development projects.
45.       By end of June 1986 all local education author1ties had submitted
their five year (1986-1991) education development plans to MOEC
headquarters. Chances these plan documents would be "filed" In MOEC
headquarters ere pretty high because the capacity in the planning division
is not adequate to consolidate, analyze and operationalize the district
education plans and fit them into the Second Education Plan and
operations, Thus, it is highly recommended that MOEC form an ad hoc
working team of about four to six staff to work with a short-term
consultant to consolidate, analyze and operationalize the district plans.



- 95 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTORWCREDIT
REPUBLIC OV M1Ai
ANNEX E
Page 1 of 3
Terms of Reference for the Committee on Monitoring and
Evaluating Quality of Education
The PrAncipal Secretary for Education will chair
a committee to monitor the Government's progress in
raising school quality and efficiency.   The committee
shall   (1)  establish   indicators  of  quality  and
efficiency, and (2) report each year on actual progress
according to these indicators.   These annual reports
will inform the World Bank's mid-term review of the
First Education Sector Credit. However, the committee
shall assess a broader range of government strategies
related  to  the   improvement  of  school  quality.
Traditional statistical reports and the school quality
studies financed under the Bank credit will provide the
evidence for judging progress.
The committee will include representatives of the
University  of  Malawi,   the  Malawi   Institute  of
Education, the Malawi Correspondence College, the new
National Examination Centre, the project implementation
unit,   and  any  other  educational   agency  deemed
appropriate by the Principal Secretary.
Indicators of Quality
The committee shall report change over time in
the following indicators of school quality:
1.  Supply of textbooks and exercise books per
pupil;
2.   Supply of teacher guides per school;
3.   Supply (and unit costs) of pupil desks per
classroom;
4.   The ratio of pupils  per teacher and the
estimated number of classes with more than
60 pupils;
5.   The number  of unqualified  primary school
teachers and the proportion served by the
upgrading programme in Zomba;
6.   The  number  and  percentage  of  graduate
teachers working in secondary schools;



AV=EX E
Pa8e 2 ox 3
- 96 -
7.   The  number  of  headmasters  and  teachers
participating   in   upgrading   programmes
offered by District Education Offices, the
Ministry,  and  the  Malawi  Institute  of
Education;
8.   The output of new teachers and the adequacy
of this output level relative to the number
of new classrooms built and the target
reduetion in the primary pupil:teacher ratio
of 50:1; and
9.   Recurrent expenditures per pupil by level of
education.
Indicators of Efficiency
Educational    investments    financed   by   the
Government and the World Bank aim not only at raising
the quality of schooling available to each pupil.  In
addition, the least costly ways of incre&sing pupil
achievement should be identified. Lowering costs faced
by the Government and finding the most efficient means
of boosting achievement will free public resources
necessary  for  serving  additional  pupil.        Better
knowledge of what school inputs and teaching practice
most efficiently raise achievement could yield stronger
pupil performance despite highly constrained resources.
The committee shall report on the following
general indicators of school efficiency:
1.    The  percentage of  primary  school  pupils
repeating the standard in which they are
currently enrolled;
2.    The ratio of pupils:teacher at secondary
and tertiary institutions, including the
University of Malawi;
3.    The occupancy rate and per pupil costs of
all   boarding  facilities   by  level  of
education;
4.    Progress  in consolidating  the curriculum
and developing exams that assess pupil
achievement in a less redundant and costly
manner;
5.    Labour and capital costs associated with
the administration and marking of all
national exams;



ANX E
97_   -ge 3of 3
6.    The percentage of tecurrent instructional
costs per pupil that are borne by the pupil
and  his  or  her  family  (by  level  of
education);
7.    The  ratio of  applicants  to admitees  to
boarding and day secondary school pupils;
8.    The number and percentage of schools that
operate two shifts of classes; and
9.    The number of pupil cost, and excess demand
for private secondary scbools.
In   addition,   the  evaluation   and  research
component  of  the  World  Bank's  sector  credit  will
Identify the efficiency with which alternative school
Inputs and teaching practices actually do, or do not,
influence  pupil  achievement.    The  committee  shall
consider this empirical evidence as policy and budget
strategies are being shaped.



- 98 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                   Annex F
EDUCATION SECTOR CREIT
REPUBLC OF MHALAWI
Focus of maid-term interim review
(a) Primary Education:
(1)  Reduction in repetition rate to 51 in all classes except
Standard 8 where repetition will be once only.
(ii) Revision of primary school curricula in the basic subjects.
(iii) Provision of three basic textbooks to all students and annual
augmentation of the textbooks replacement fund by an amount of
MK 2.0 per enrolled student.
(iv) Achievement of a gross enrollment ratio of 70%.
(v) Achievement of a student to teacher/classroom ratio of 55:1.
(b) Secondary Education:
(i) Achievement of a student to teacher ratio of 25:1.
(ii) Revision of s_condary school curricula.
(iii) Completion of school mapping exercise.
(iv) Introduction of shift system in all urban schools.
(v) Replacement of 501 of the MCC tutors with trained teachers.
(vi) Full cost recovery of the boarding element In all schools.
(c)  Teacher Training:
Implementation of a teacher retraining program.
(d) Vocational/Technical Education:
Full utilization of existing facilities by achieving a student to
staff ratio of 20:1.
(e) University Education:
(i) Achieving of a student to staff ratio of 10:1 (in Science)
and 12:1 (in Arts).
(ii) Maintain cost recovery at the Univeristy in real terms.
(f) Level of Recurrent Expenditures
Increase in the education share of the Government budget to
11l.



_ 99 -
ANNEX G
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SUPPL OF I TDO( de) CTS DASH) Of 1I8 8411LJ94
Stoadad     Tf entbook       Enr t                 bwr or         Cost In It
flaoks -
1n l6sh            239 648           238t54           334,001.6
Aritfmvtic                                            334,001.6
adw.wa                                                405,M2.8
Tatal                             715.752        1.073.594.0
lt       Elth tlsh           156,708            78f354         141,01.2
Arlthnmtlc                                            133,201.8
Qmldw                                                 133,201.8
Total                             235,062          407,440.8
III      English             12U,095            62,948          195,138.8
Aritlatic                               m             146,812.2
Qeihwa                                                110,159.0
Tota                               188,84          472,109.7
IV       English             94,009             47 005         150,416.0
Alrithbtlo                                            124,798.3
Qtichsw                                                82,258.8
Total                             141,015         357,473.1
V         Eglish              72,832            36,414          118,352.0
Arithmetic                                            1305406.4
Otlchewo                                               71,011.2
Total                             109,248          294,969.4
VI       English              69,306            34U633         112,622.3
Acithietic                                            102,226.4
O,Ichsew                                               83,167.2
Total                             103,959          298,015.9
VIl      Enlish               55,37U            ??,6839         91,373.7
Arithmetic                                             8 84,451.5
aQ lchew                                               66,453.6
Total                              U3,067          242,270.8
Vill     Ennlilsh             86,747            41,3774         153,97.7
Arithlwtic                                            151,809.0
QicIww                                 a             108 ,435.0
Total                                              720,008.4
*Xt0 TOTAL         899,459        1,713,069        3i865,892.3



- 100 -
ANNX 
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAY REPORT
EDUCATION SECFTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Selected Documents Available In The Project File
1. Malawi Education Development Plan (1985 - 1995) Operation*.l
Supplements.
2. The Costs and EffiCiency of University and other Post-Primary
Education in Malawi by R.N. Mawdih, J.J. Thompson and I.D. Trickett of
University of Bath, 1985.
3. Education Statistics Malawi, 1984.
4. Education Statistics Malawi, 1985.
5. Project Proposal: Examination Center
6. Sixth Education Project: Implementation method for Primary Education
Component.
7. Proposed Strategies to improve internal Efficiency: Elimination of
repetition and dropout.
8. Construction of 1500 Primary school classrooms and 750 teachers
houses.
9. Primary school mapping Survey Part III.
10. Report on the procedures for liasion between MOEC, Malawi Institute of
Education, and Malawi Correspondence Collega for Curriculum
Development, instructional materials and textbook production.
11. Feasibility of establishing Day Secondary Schools with a mix of day
and boarding places in Malawi.
12. Construction of Secondary Schools under the Sixth IDA Credit.
13. Malawi Institute of Education (1986) A Report of the 8-week
Residential Programme, Domasi.
14. Malawi Institute of Education (1986) An Introduction to the Theory and
Practice of Teaching, Domasi.
15. Malawi Institute of Education (1985) Primary Science: Teachers' Guide
for Standard 6, Domasi.
16. Malawi Certificate Examination and Testing Board (1985) Regulation
and Syllabuses 1983-1984, Zomba.



ANWBXH
PIa 2of 2
WORKING PAPERS
(A) Education and Economic Working Paper
1.   Primary School Enrollment Projections: 1984/85-1994/95.
2.   Primary Enrollment Projections: Impact of Policy Changes
1984/85-1994/95.
3.   Primary Teacher Supply 1984/85-1994/95.
4.   Evaluation and Research Component.
5.   Consulting Examinations Center Consolidated National Examinations
Oentre.
6.   Organization and Management of Education Service at the Ministry of
Education and Culture.
7. Assessing the Recurrent Financing of an Educational Development Plan:
The Case of Malawi 1985 - 1995.
8.   Malawi Correspondence College and Broadcasting Unit - Evaluation and
Recommendations for Improvement.
(B) Architectural Working Paper



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
KREUBLIC OF MALAWI
Distribution of Expenditure - 1973/74 -184/85
73/74  74/75  75/76  76/77  77/78   4/79  79180  80/81  81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85
Grows D     c lrodwt (K m.111) 364.0  461.5  529.7  612.0  728.0  800.7  830.4  937.5  1050.2  1181.6  1372.0  165.3
G( mRet Roe. c  p. O( min.)    61.7   73.8   84.4   93.6  108.3  140.4  173.1  207.6   273.0   278.5   315.2   417.0
4u:rtlai llmrent (K mill.)      10.0   11.3   12.0   12.8   14.0   17.9   20.4   23.6    27.5    31.6    35.5    39.1
Otdr Soisal Services (K mdii.)    6.2    7.8    8.9    9.7   10.7   14.8   16.5   20.6    24.2    21.4    26.9    28.2
74. PAC. as Z Govt. Rae. cmp.   16.2   15.3   14.2   13.7   12.8   12.7   11.8   11.4    10.1    11.9    11.3         9.4
As Z of Hi. Btadt
Prmly laticm                 42.0   45.1   45.0   42.2   45.5   41.9   40.2   39.0    37.5    38.5    40.5    4D.6
So9xlary Elu?atix            19.0   16.5   17.0   18.4   15.7   15.9   14.9   14.4    14.2    14.6    133         13.9
Prlm:y Teectr Tranx           4.4    4.4    4.1    4.8    4.3    5.1    4.9    5.1        4.7     4.3      4.1     3.8
1Thdcal & Vocatioal           IA      1.     1.4    1.6    1.4    1.5    1.5    1.3       1.5      1.6     1.4     1.4
lCawiC              Co1ea    1.2    1.6    1.7    1.6    1.6    1.7    1.6    2.1         2.2     2.5      2.1     2.1
lloiwraity                   24.0   23.0   22.8   23.6   23.6   23.3   23.2   25.0    243    221    22.0    21.5
nsand General     8.0    8.0    8.0    7.8    7.9   10.6   13.7   13.1    14.5    14.9    12.6    13.0
O0,r (2ugs - Culum.7                                                                              0.9      11       1.7
Total                       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.O   1O0.0  100.0  100.0  10U.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Gov. Dwlopmt Eap. (K mill..)   30.3   40.8   70.0   55.9   76.6  113.5  127.9  174.9   124.2   139.6   142.9   134.2
a1atim ulev. ep. (K Lil)         1A     1.2    1.0    1.3    5.2    7.0    5.1    7.6    11.9    19.7    20.1    19.2
Oder Social SesvIe  1lv. &p.
kK uI1.)                  1.5    2.3    1.9    1.8    6.9    1.0    2.7    4.3        1.6      3.8     6.7     9.0
Fduatim 1Dev. as Z of Govt.
Ibv. 1p.                  4.6    2.9    1.5    2.4    5.5    6.2    4.0    4.4         9.6    15.9    14.0    14.3
QI Deflatw                      62.5   73.9   80.0   880   99.8  100.0   98.6  112.2   12A    145.3   161.6   185.5
StOS: World B*, OM, 58F1DM  (pp. 104-106); NaladiF4duaticm StatLttcen, 1984,85.
I,
--3



____!X                          MAnnex Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPURI.TC OF MALAWI
Primary School Curriculum
subject                      Nob1 of Weokly Periods per Standard
Standards    1   Z   3   4   5   6   7  8
Agriculture                       -   -     -   -   4   4   4
nglish                         5   7   9   9   9   9   9   9
Arithmetic                     5   5   5   5   5   6   6' 6
Chicheva                      10   8   8   8   8   4   4   4
Health Education               2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2
Science,                       2   2   2   2   2   4   4   4
Religious Eacation             3   3   3   3   3   3   3   3
Geography                      2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2
History                        2   2   1   1   1   1   1   1
Civics
Music                          2   2   1   1   1   1   1   1
Pbysical Education             2   2   2   2   2   2   2   2
Uouaecraft
Needlework                     -   -   2   2   2   4   4   4
Art and Craft                  2   2   1   1   1   1   1   1
Totals      37  37  38  38  38  43  43  43
Length of teaching period: 30 - 35 minutes.



- 1ln4 -                            Annex Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC O MALAWI
Secondary School Curr*culua
Subject                      No. ol Weekly Periods per form
Form        1     2     3      4
A. CORE SUBJECTS
English                          7     7     8     8
Mathematics                      7     7     6     6
Physical Sciances                4     4     5     5
iology                           3     3     5     5
Geography                        3     3     4     4
History                          3     3     4     4
Chichewa                         3     3     4     4
Agriculture                      3     3     -     _
MY? 1/                           2     2     2     2
Optiols                         10    10     7     7
Total      45    45    45    45
B. OPTIONAL SUBJECTS
Roma Econoics                    6     6     6     6
Technical Subjects               7     7     7     7
Art                              3     3     4     4
Agriculture                      -           5     5
Bible Knoledge                   3     3     4     4
French                           3     3     5     5
Latin                            4     4     5      5
1/ Mty  (Nelawi young pioneers)  onu examinable subject.
Source: Inspectorate Memorandum I3/2/SB/Vol II/25 of Sept. 1985



- 105 -                           Annex Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Unit Costs
Opp Cost of Cap:    12.OX            :     12. OX
Duration(years):
Constructin :    30. 0             :     30. 0
FUrn /equip  :     7. 5                   7. 5
Plan Estinates  :              Alternatives to the Plan
:Priary  : Second::y :   M          FM      : Ualawi
SoaWce     : Pri y : Secondary:   AiS    :  IDA V   :  IDA V   :   IDA V   :  IDA IV
i. Capital Cost (CC) per student placsi         I
Year of est.  :  1986   :   1986   :   1984   :   1983   :   1983   :   1983    :   t981
a. CC in lwacla:
No Phys Cant  :          :
Construction : $279.00  $5, 136. 46: $520.00  $5, 177.08 : $1, 002. 36 :$10, 217. 95 : $14, 388 00
F*uwn /equip.:  $41 . 00 :  565. 63:   $45.00 :  $614. 58 : $1Y9. 39 : $1, 213. 46 : $3, 025. 78
Total        : $320. 00 :$5,702.08    $565.00 :$5,791.67 :$1, 181.76 :$l1,431.41 :$17, 393.78
With hys Cont:           :          :
Construction : $306.90 :$5,650. 10   $572.00: ;5,694.79 :$, t12. 70 :$11,239.74  $15,661.12
Fum /equip. : $45.10 : $622. 19:   $4i. 50    $645.83 : $188.51 : $1,274.36   $3,298.10
Total        : $352.00 S6,272.29:  $621.50 46, 340. 63 $1,291.22 :$12,514. 1O :$18,959.22
b. Amal. OC  :::::::
No PtWs Cont  :          :          :
Construction : $34.64:  $637.66:   $64.55:  $642.70:  $124.44: $1,268.49   $, 783 70
-urnm /equip. :  $8. 98:  $123. 94      $9. 86 : $134. 67:   $39. 31:   $265. 89:   $663. 00
Total        : $43. 62:  W761. 60:   $74. 42 :  $777. 37    $163. 75: $1, 534. 38: $2, 446. 70
With Phys Cont:          :          :          :
CAnstruction    $38. 10:  $701. 42:   $71. 01   $706. 97    $136. 89: $1i 395. 34: $1, 944. 23
--rm /equip  :  $9.88:  $136.33:   $10.85:  $141.51:   $41. 31:   $279.23            $722.67
Total        : $47.98:  $837.76        $81.86:  $848.49:  $178.20: $1, 674.58   $2, 666.9c
c*. A      C 85:                         :           :                :
Deflator      u  211.5       211.5       161.6:    145.3:    145.3:         145.3:      145.3
No Riys Ccat  : $38.26:  $667.97:   $85.42:  $992.44    $209.05   $1,958.90: $3,123. 62
With Phys Cant:  $42. 08:  $734.77:   $93.96 :S1,083.24    $227.50: $2, 137. 88: $3,404.75
2. Recurrent Cost per student place:
FY85 Kwacba      $25.60:  $236 00:   $19.20:  $264. 00:   $53. 60:   $801. 50: $4,405. 60
* 3. OUr (Private) Cost per student:
Yfar of est.  : 1982/83: 1982/83: 1982/83: 1982/83: 1982/83:  1982/83:  1982/83
a Direct      : $36. 00:  $133.00:   $36. 00:  $133. 00:  $133.00:          $0.00:      $0.00
b. 4Wortunity: $200.00:  $440. 00:  $200.00:  $440. 00:  $440. 00:   $960. 00:   $960. 00
c. Total      : $236.00:  $573.00:  $236.00:  $573. 00:  $573. oU.:   S960. 00:   $960.00
Deflator w        145.3:    145.3:   145.30:   145.30:   i45. 30:    145.30:    145.30
1 Total FY85: $301. 29:  $731. 53:  $301. 29:  4731. 53:  $731. 53: $1, 225. 60: $1, 225. 60
4. Social Ecanuc Unit Cost (Ic + 2 + 3d)
FY85  wamca   : $368. 98: $1,702. 30:  $414. 46: $2, 078. 77: $1, 012. 63: $4, 164, 98: $9, 035. 95
Notes to T - 4
Notes:    Capital costs are annualized at 12S, the assumed opportunlty cost
of capital. For primary education, the base costs are taken from
a model schools project inpelmented by the Afrlcan Development
Bank (AfDB). For formal secondary, the Malawi correspondence
College (MCC) and primary teacher tralinig colleges (PTTC), the
base costs are taken from the Fifth IDA Project and brought up to
1984/85 EKacha. For unlversity, the base costs ste taken from
the expansion of Chancellor College financed by the Pourth IDA
project. Private cost estimates are derived from figures of the
Household Incone and EXpenditure Survay as quoted In A. Merigat,
J.P. tan and h. Hbgue, "Recoverlng the Cost of Public Higher
Education In LDCs: To What Extent are Loan Schemes an Efficient
InveStment" Education and Training Department, The World Dank,
July 1984.



- 106 -
Annex Table 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MNAAWI
Social Rates of Return to Schooling in Malawi (1 p.a.)
Assumptions About Capital Costs (CC)
School Level               No Capital           With Capital Costs
Primary                         17                      14
Lower Secondary                 34                      20
Upper Secondary                 22                      15
University                      20                      11
An important methodological note is that, because capital costs are such a
large component of economic costs in Malawi, assumptions regarding their
inclusion affect some of the qualitative conclusions from rate of return
analysis. If capital costs were completely ignored in the analysis, primary
education would have last priority among the various levels of education.
University education would have a relatively high rate of return of 20X.
However, if annualized capital costs are included, as they should be,
primary education expansion ranks second only to the expansion of lower
secondary education. Indeed, at an opportunity cost of capital of 121,
university expansion becomes a marginal investment (the rate of return at
IIX Is somewhat lower although not significantly so, than the opportunity
cost of capital) with the inclusion of annualized capital costs.



- 107 -                 Annex Table 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC a1 MIAWI
Education Development Expenditure by Sector
1985-1990 by Current Prices (MK Million)
Sector              1985/86       1986/87        1987/90   1990-95
Actual    Revised Estimate  Estimate
1. Primary Level
Primary Schools             0.99          0.1           57.38      53.0
Primary T. Training         5.05          5.29          14.3        8.5
Instructional Materials      -             -             5.12       5.0
2. Secondary Level
Formal Sec. Schools          5.57         5.01          55.44      55.7
Malawi Corr. College        2.00          3.01           6.80      13.5
Technical Voc.              1.00          1.27            .38
3. Tertiary Level
University                  2.06          2.44           2.21      12.5
Polytechnic incl. Mal.
College of Accountancy    4.05          4.14           2.56       1.0
4. Institutional|Development
Management Improvement
including inspectorate
and Research               0.50          0.50          10.78      10.0
Examinations                              -              2.07
Total                      22.22         21.75         146.04     159.2



- 108 -
Annex Table 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Technical Assistance and Fellowship
(a) Fellowship
1. Planning
4 man years (MA) - Education research, including statistics
2 man years (VtA) - Economics of education
6 man years - Bradford-type course in education and manpower
planning and in computer analysis
Total - 12 man years (external)
2. P.I.U.
6 months - Financial management course
6 months - Project management and design
3 years  - Quantity surveyor course
2 years  - Procurement course
3 months - Local training (IDA) (6 external)
3. Rxamination Centre
4 years - Masters programme in testing and measurement
2 years - Short term (IDA) (6 external)
4. MCC
4 persons - 1 year each in specialized training in
course material development
2 personi - Financial management courses (1 year)
2 personq - 1 year distance education management course
2 persons - Statistical and computer analysis (1 year) (10 years
external)
Grand Total - 34 man years
(b) Techbical Assistance
Planning: 1 researcher - 2 man years
Short-term consultants for workshops: 2 years
Training advisor - 3 years
Financial management specialist - 3 yer-s
Ins"ectorate: Curriculum development specialist: 2 years
MCC:          Management consultancy - 9 years
MCE/TB:       Test development officer - 2 years
PIU:          Quantity surveyor - 3 years
Architect - 3 years
TOTAL - 29 man-years
Note: of the 29 man-years, ODA will finance 17 and IDA will support 12.



- 109 -                                     Annex Table 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
RFPJIRI ItC OF MAI AWT
PROGRAM COST SUMMARY
(IK '000)                 (U   000)                   XTota
I Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchanu   Cats
A. EXPANSION OF ACCESS TO SECONDAY E CATION
TO SECWARY DAY SCDHOI                               3?545*8 3,904.9 7M450.7  1.79  1.952.5 30725.4          52       13
CONVERSION OF TWO MM IN SECNY SCHOOLS               1,6.9  1,996.4 3626#3    814.4   992  1,813.2            55       6
Sub-Total EXPANSION F ACCESS TO SECND    EUTION        50175.7 5M01.41.077.1  2,597.8 2950.7 56539.5            53      19
. QUALITY INSO'NT
1500 PRINRY CLASSOM                                13498.3 14292.6 27.770.9  60744.2 7.141#3 13*89.4         51      47
PRIY SCOOL INECTOATE                                   10.1   431.9   442.0      5.1   215.9   221.0         9I 1
PRINRY SCHOL TEXTOS                                   426.0 3.834.0 44260.0    213.0 1,917.0 2130.0          90       7
UPOAIN9 PRIAY SCHOOL TEE                            1491.0   639.0 24130#0    745.5   319.5 1*065.0          30       4
IRMENT EXANINATION SYSTEM                            432.2 1.2,5 1724.7    216.1    4.2   862.3              75       3
POIN IICC HEANAS                                       59.4   534.8   594.3      29.7   267.4   297.1        90        1
Sub-Total OUALITY IMPROENT                           15907.0 214014.8 36t921.8  74953.5 10,507.4 198460.9       57      63
C. INSTITUTIOL DeJELWT
STRENGTHENINS RESEARCH WM EWALTION                    74.6   372.8   447.3      37.3   186.4   223,7         83       1
STREHENI  PLMSDIN6                                   276.2  1,957.2 2.233.3    139.1   978.6  1.116.7        98       4
STRENTHENING ICC NMNA                                    - 1.738.1  10738.1        -   06f.0   869.0        100       3
STRENGTHINB PIU                                      992.4 2W400,1  3.382.4    491.2 1,200.0  1691.2         71       6
ESTABLISHWMNT MANTENAE UNIT                          329.0   639.1   968.1    164.5   319,6   484,0          66       2
Sub-Total INSTITUTIOSL  EoRmN                          1.662#0 7M107.2 89769.2    831.0  3.553.6 4v384.6        91      15
D. IPRED COST fRECOVER
ESTABLI0ENT UNIVERSITY LON  CHEME                    900.0   900.0 1.900.0    450.0   450.0   900.0          50       3
Sub-Total I1PO   COST RECOVERY                          900.0   900.0 18900.0    450.0   450.0   900.0          50       3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   23,644.7 34.923.3 58568.1  11822.4 17,46107 29.284.0      40      100
Phvuical Contingencies                               2.364.5  3t492.3 5856.8  1,182.2  10746.2 2,928.4        60      10
Price Contingencies                                   2.172,6  1.448.1 39620.7  1.096.3   724.0 1.810.3        40       6
Total PROECT COSTS                                     29.191.8 39U063.7 68,045,5 144090.9 19.931.8 34,022.6     59      116
8282_    = : =2:: t8822= 2==82  22= = ___: _ -
-     ------------------------------- ------- -~- -- --  ------
Febats 17, 1997 1558



SWF APRIISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
suM4ry ACCOUNT BY cOOPONET
E    IM N OFOMTOS~3
T;W                                                                       IETUI6L    IW         T                                  c16 r
I I                                                                                                                      -------~~~00624  WPJiIT  T!0010  070.001                      utr1 
law~ ~~~~L                                    n                                                       !lN}B DUL                                         tEat WERtlci
Tea18048   NM4W     10  11    OWSU    03    135 IN1801 sOu  (11310T18 zoaos cc                        861*MI?SltllIMESOIOiMI                      UIIP 670.(01               800(0(
nV oM EI             W      MMMSMPI SUMPI                            =CIIINM               DBM         EEO.M            tUTW       TO M UF6SsMN t rOLM MnDsH9l               E     tDW 
rsDAY ssoT nS  SMM   O LAW               FRVlmRr  TET                E"          sY            AW            f"tl   sualms    MXllStW L6CC R NSO    55u  )6    ES    mat  WlfSIT UNWA
DAT SOl     S      t 3100  QASOU    1916180676    t6700              16610        503         ERs610         it l          'tatlS 91W6  ic  3VWi3I       91        I1IU(it              33 Tt til              3 
a.  CaSTWtIDi'
_*(  M 6M . FC11M                 1.70.03.1  2.013,374.0  13.460.967.4              -450-7- -  -  -  -  -                                                                                                    4,7 19.3  10.0 1.72481.9
t84 I1 t                          1. ,6    4    2          .                        -             -                  -           -               -              -                   -                      SB 4  SO              -    1,382,476.5    10.0   138247.7
910026                             1 600.607.3           -     9                    -7-323.0             -          n6.m.5                                                          -                                            - 12,494,57.7  10.0 t249t465.8
009)313                                     -            *                                        -             -  402,996.0            -                -            -                                                          -  -   402, 6906.0 10.0   40299.6
SITEwl                            166963.1    732,6,0                 -             -             -                  64,432.5                             -            -                                                            2.4533m.6 10.0  24.3 9.2
&b-TcOI a1lIU                        a,3s0.oo.0  2,745.570,0 24,9=,290.4              -              -             -  64,156.0             -                -            -              -            -       580,425.0              - 34,45.41.4  10.0 3,445.4.1
0, FU$181                              319,500.0    232,170.0  3.447,405.0             -             *             -   60,705.0            -                             --                         -                               - 4.05R700.0  10.0  45,070.0
C. 851wr5                              244,950.0    317,370.0     86,265.0     101,175.0   4,260,00C.0             -  3ss,9r0.0    594,270.0                 -     7,745.-0w..                               337,660.0              - 6.4?67,95o 10.0  S44,1.5
0.     a                        .5     496,290.0    331,.25.0    178,920.0             -                           -   74,530.0            -                                                                        -1 .                           10.0   M.07.s
E.  T     . 6IS(T                             -      -                   -     340,000.0             -             -  340,w00.0            -         340,fe0.0  1,33.200.0    1,59,600.0  1,022.400.0              -                  4,941,M00.0  10.0  494.160.0
C. FELL                                         - e                                                         -         204,400.0            -                 -    4006.0        2t4,40.0    204A400.0                               - 10224.0  10.0 1t2,2400o
0. T                                           -            -            -             -             -   2_130_,,0.0          -            -         10650.0         4000              -             -                                       _-  - _1 .0  10_0  219.
TOtWl V7MsT   Us                        7,450,740.0   3.132S.0  27t770M.4         441,M.0   4,260.000.0  2130,040.0 1,r24661.0    594,270.0            447,340.0  7253,305.0   1,730.000   1.465,440.0         060,005.0              - 50,51.061.4  10.0 5.00,106.1
i1. perT I Cars
A.  m    LaErs MM                                         -417#0.0 -                   -            -             -          -                              .            -             -  10-                             10,400.0  3n717.0.0  1040  m71,70
tow     T    eDsrs                               -      -                  -             -             -                                                                                   -  1,017,000.0                     1,4 4.0  3.710         o. 1.o  m31,780.0
TtAd 1AM  M0                             7,4s0.740.0  3*32.          7 2470.0.4    441,970.0   4.260.000.0   2,138,000.0    4    0    594270.0           447,300.0  2,2330.34.0   1,738.0    3.3S-440.0          968.0050      140000.O se0.051.4  10.0 5.5,o6l
f0md  CW4NU 1n                         7,49,074.0    362o632.5  2.M,088.0        44,197.5     426,4t0.0     213,040.0   72.466.1     59,427.0          44,73).5    223,330.5     173,000.0    338,244.0        06,00.s        100f00.0 5Umf0          0.0        0.0
91640 CoW gtao                          50,901.7    263.503.4  1.844,50.6        (5.90.0      240.202.?     168#54.6   61,046.5     17,090.1          22,34.4    106.363.'       55.751.!    107,014.4        70.505.                - 3,420.660.4  0.1  329,15.0
_ _   _ _ _  -  _ - " - -    _  _   _  _   _  _ _ _               _                           , _^*    _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    -    ------ -    -    -- - - -  --- -   __
totl 60 7 Cum                            8,746,15.7  4,252,40.S  32.392409.0       502,073.3   4W934,202.9   2.511,514.6 1,965.73.6    6715W.1           5144.  2,52,M.4   1,6.639.2  3s94,8590,4               1935s.39.      19800oo0.0 4 s045s.5   7.1 615,957.1
aw                                      372,64.2    17et08.,7  1,304,048.3              -             -             -      437                                -            -             -      6,48.4          27,455.5       59.400.0 2,051.106,1  1.1  109472.4
$o,i141 EicI8                         4.475,993.5  2,389060.3  16,305,407.7     490,409,0   4.413i830.3     729,541.3 1,466695.6    603,079.6          4=.5.9   .3.32.1   1-967,63S.'  7.737,127.0             75,420.6       990,000.0 39.63.W9.?  9.1 3,6mm972.6
F&I.v 17, 1987 15M57



- 111 -                                Annex TabLe 10
STAFF APPRATSAL REPORT
Fnl(CATtnN   FtTOfLR CRFnTT
RUPUIRI Tt OF MAI ALAT
PROGRAM COST SUMMARY OF CATEGORY
(tK '000)               (US$ '000)                   Z Total
ForiZ Fgin  Obse
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Exchande   Costs
-=az  ..usu    ua           az z n z  z3z    muuug  .a
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION
ACADEIC AND aHUL FACILITIES   8M862.4 8,862.4 17,724.8  46431*2 4.431.2 8862.4         50      30
BOARDING                          691*2   6n1.2 1,382.5   345*6   345,6   691.2         50       2
HOUSINM                         6t247*3 6,247.3 12,494.7  3,123*7 3,123.7 6,247.3       50      21
OFFICES                           201.5   201.5   403.0   100.7   100.7   201.5         50       1
SITE DEVELOPNENT                I,226.7  1,226.7 2,453.5    6134   613,4 1,226.7        50       4
ub-Total CONSTRUCtION             17,229.2 17,229.2 34,458.4  8,614.6 8,614.6 17,229.2    50      59
B. FURNITUE                        14623.9 2,435,9 4059.8    812.0 14217.? 2,029.9       60       7
C. EUUIPNT                          666.8 6,001.2 6,6680    333.4 34000#6 3,334.0         90      11
D. CONSILtANTS                      432.4   648.6 1,001.0    216.2   324.3   540.5        60       2
E. TECNIICAL ASSISTANCE                 - 4,941.6 4t91.6         - 2P470.8 2t470.8        100      8
F. FELLOSNIPS                           - 1.022.4 14022A4        -   511.2   511.2        100      2
9. TRAINING                        1833.9  786.0 2.619.9    917.0   393.0 1,310.0         30        4
Total INWESTNENT COSTS              21,786.2 33064.8 54,851.1  10.M93.1 16.532,4 27,425.5    60      94
I. XCIURRET COSTS
A. WATIENIM  COSTS                1485805 19858#5 3,717.0    9.3   ?2?3 1,858.5          50        6
Toal CURRT COSTS                     1,85.5 1,858.5 3.n7.0    9293   929.3 1858.5            50       6
Total AEINE cOSS                     23,644#7 34,923.3 58S568.1  11,822.4 17,461.7 29,284.0   60    1t0
Physical Canti Iius                 2,3645 3,492.3 5.856.8  14182.2 1,7462 29M24           60      10
Price Conti*imcies                 2,172.6 1448s1 39620.7  1,086.3   724.0 1,810.3         40       6
Total dET COSTS                      201818 39,863.7 6045*5 14,t90.9 19t931.8 34,022#8        59     116



112
Annex Table 11
SYAFF APPRAISAL REPORtA
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
Components       f-2 41986              1987               1988               1989          1990
1 2            4    2 34   I 23    1 2 34   1 *T
1. PRIMARY SCROOLS
cOn8tructiOn                     pp?   1 PP PIP p    U =        mM  MM  m K  m m          mm  mm m
Furniture &
Equipment                                    PPP PPP PPP PIP  K   K   m m   xxxMXX   xxx  mm
2. SECONDARY
SCHOOLS AND
CONVERSION MCC.
Construction                              PPP PPP PPP   PPP mK mUm   xxx xxx X UKU m    xx  m
Furniture &
Equipment                                                   PPP PPP PPP    Xmm         m   xxx m mKmm
3. EXAMIlATION
CENTRE
Construction                          PpP F?P P1P mK   m    xUK UKx   U
Furniture &
Equipment                               PPP PPP PPP   UK m   m    xKx  RU
Technical Assist.                                  UK  mK mUm U  mm ]m xxx mUm
4. MCC H4g AND
REG. OFFICES
Construction                     PP  PPP mU  xxx xxx  mUm  mK U           x  x
Furniture &
Equipment                           PIp ppp pPP XX  xxx          m U       m  xx
Technical Ass.                          xxx xxx mm         x xxx R Um  mUm    mK      m U
5. STUDIES                             xxx U   m  U  m    xxx m    mK R          xxx UK U   xxxK XX     xxx
6. PRIMARY SCHOOLS
INSPECTORS
M'cycles &
bicycles                                           XX  XR XXX    UKm
7. PLANNING
Vehicles                                           XXX   XXK  XXX
Technical Assist.                     XX XX% XXX XXX   KU RU  m                 xKU xxxm xxx  XX KUm
8. CURR1CULUM
DEVELOPMENT
Technical Assist.                     XXX XXX XX  UX%       XKX m   m   m        xxx  UK U     xm  mUm
9.* PIU
M2INISTRATION
Recurrent costs                                                        UKxxx mKm mxx           mm
Technical Assist.                              UK m   Uxx          m m UK Um mK U UK UKU
OTEs   P         trepresents one month of preparation of tender documents, bid evaluation etc.
X        :represents one month of executlon/lplementatlon
1 2 3 4 trepresent quarterly calendar years.



- 113 -              Annex Table 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
CALENDAR                 ACCUMULATED    UNDISBURSED
YEAR    DISBURSENENTS DISBURSEMENTS      BALANCE
1987
1               0               0         27.00
2             0.25            0.25        26.75
1988
1             1.35            1.60        25.40
2             2.45            4.05        22.95
1989
1             3.25            7.30        19.30
2             3.75           11.05        15.95
1990
1             3.80           14.85        12.15
2             3.50           18.35         8.65
1991
2.95          21.30          5.70
2             2.45           23.75         3.25
1992
1.90          25.65          1.35
2             1.05           26.70         0.30
1             0.30           27.00         0.00
2



- 114-                                                  Annex Tabl.e 13
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                                  Page I of 2
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
C0NWARTIVE ESUCATION IND3CATOIS
764,0.'y 2, 19"7
loovwrn
IO    UAON NmTtl  R1Cu1RRE3   AMILT             RAtE FO              UNIT COST  PROCRESION
UAN   "OP.  CAPtTA  PERCENT    TOTAL CENTRL ALLOCATED lot RATE           ENROLL. SCUOOI      STUMNT  EI3O tCAII3  RIMAR  TO  ENRLL.   8T3.O3NT  ENROL.
VEARNILA. (US$)   UgVmOT   TO  Cmowa '    flat  sg   di    (2)    RAtio   CYCLEg             PE          PER     510016647T  RA1I        PE        RATIO
(3M9  (3979)   EINCTio  U EXENITUR              (9)        (1974)   (2)        (2)      TECE   CPCFIA            C)         CR)     TEACNEE      (2)
(3)          (4)           (5)          ()       ()        ()()                 (30)         (I1)        (12)      (I33)    (16)
30111   4.6b 8.87O       4.38        34.4                                   05       30          3        -9                       73        331     20.90
CANAM              St    233,7   9.65ob    1 7,7       38.587           ;;;I 34?  3.?  799   3068O   3''00        23       379.9'        300"        9211      to      21.*O
saga" P.R.         79    61.2  32.20       4.4          9,9                      9419         89'      300'       -         -            100'        94'       -       32.30'
NEflIRIANU         79    14.0  10.490      7.9          5.        20   35   25       9 9      94       S9         Is        is.)         99          82        3)      32.40
NoV ZEALAm)                 6~37    .(A1k    5.3       t14o73o2 93                            0        100        24        13.6         300         82        is      25*401th
79     S.)  32,250      9.0         38.2       33   30   10    9to         995     t00         418       19.9        100          795       10'?    34.3l'?
M M MI" ~83          1.94    9294    6.0          22.0        43   34   22      40      100        77        32        10.0          40         20        23       1,40
REuIND             as     4.2      235     2. Ow       39.0       43   28   27      25        295       35        37        20.2          1 2         3'       3 7      3.00
0160810            84     0.b    3US       3.8"0       28.0       49  29  22        49        74       40         39        -            41          30        28       0.60
OJiROU            8       0.4     480      3.0         33.9        73  26  ...    10          42       66         40       67.0          40          33a      19        0.60
474.10P1A         a3 I    2.84    340k    2.99         31.1       45   25   20    S53         42       30'        6 3       19.3         93'         3 4      44        0.45
3IXVA             82    37.44    4294    S.8ib         201        6$   3 6   33     48b      313       58         34        34.4         is          38a      26        -
LEROIN            82      1,4b    4354    5.5          36.9       38   12   26      si       336'     463         48         9.6         46          23I      23        3.30
1146160AC41h       77     8.1      330     4.01f      '24.0       5 3   28   19     so        9442      33        534        S.0         38          3 4       2 3      1.304
NUALAI             81     6. lb    2394    3.5         13.4       38   14   2$      25b       62        23        65         1.8         12           4        23       0.40
NARtItus           83       o.b  1.179b    4.3         34.0       46   36    7      sob       93        72        23        33.0        300         5S)        22       3.00
SUVA6              83     s.lb    2794    3.6          27.4       73   3 6   3 3    374       65        30        40        36.0          9           5       36        0.40
SSVTCI3LIES        79     0.6   1.770      5.9         22.4'      344033'P0 JOB                                   2$       --              -         -- 
SWA41.A           at      4.5      280     3.5         30.5       Sob4 4b   6b    5ob         22b      gob        294        9.94        Sob         12b      22        3.00
50663              80    39.2k    380      3.0         -          6639,..    32               SW"      633        34         3.4         44          36        34      ..
5VAIL3AND         83      0.76    9494    3.8pb        38,4       St   34   is      454       93       50         33        31.0         9829                  38       3.00
TANZaIA            80    l8.S      260     1.9         17.7       47   30   14      794       gab      87         4 3       33.0          394         3        20'      0.30
UCNWi              20    32.4k      09     -           14. 3W     23   7b 2ob    48           54       63         34       --           1I I$                 23        0.40
ZAIRE              83    29.8b      39     7.7         26.4       -    -     t30    544       76       25         30        Z3.0         40          38a      28        2.00
2*1514s 80                 . 74     4      4.59        13.3       48   23. 22       40-       95       80         48        32.9         1 9         1 6      22        3.10o
13056831          a81     7, 74    704      .1         39.5       62   32    6      444       90       Ss         39        20.0         a5          3 5      23        0.50
WN         6ML----    79  3.44    3294    6.51       35.0       AS   21    5    j34         42       30         46       14.0          30          It       43        3.089
SURINA            SI      4.5     2394    2. 1"        21.7       43   29   28      9         16       2S         57       24.)          16           3       24       .0.03
CAMIE""            SR    30.0      8394    3.3IF       -          33  38  28    20            89       454        50        -            -           23       28        2.70
C.",4              79     2.2      280     3.81'?      20.6'?              - - -    -5 6*y                                  -     ~      -           -        -         0.70'?
cm*          ~76     4.4      320     2.44S?      21.74         -- -3 5                  25        -         77        -            -            3'?     23        0.20?
cowG               78     3.5     670      9.0"'?    237877                - --              -    -               56by                   30-                  4347      4.00'?
CA8M               77     0.6   3,420      3,74b7       8.47      -   --        -       -              --         40?Y            -       -          -        394       2.80'?
0*11,'             77     0.6      220     3,3w         4,54      46   25&'  6' ob            4047     9"s        27k?     44.78         40          32411    37 
cm"8               76    31.3     400      4.Y         15.14      -   ---    -                7345?    -          2747     -             -           316J`?    23.      -
GUINEA             79     5.1      290     4.64p                  23828286 38 2               34       36         $8       20.009        85          3 6      29        7.001'
120Ty dM17        83      9,3b    720      7.3        42.8        St   40    9    3557        72       79         37       29.0          49         229U      30        1.88
LISIIA            90      3.9      520     4.4         39.6       43   23   24    30          $ 2      32         3 5      20.0          76          22       20        2.90
KALI               83     7.9b    I9.      4.241       23.7'      382313           30t        20       60         44        15.7         66           1       3 1       0.90'?
3I33ITAIIIA        78     1,6b    3204    5.5          (6.9       33   4 3 25    374l         32       40o        44       52.0          30           9       25S       0.37
3163*              84     5.2      300     2.8         71.0       40   25   20    3 4         25       20         36       41.0          37           6       28        0.30
VIM231             63    93.6b    7604    7.47         36.0       -  --33          36         9 3      70         36       39.5          4 7         2 3      30        2.00
sERCA.             84     6.41    380      S.O4        24.0       66b  356  394   28          52       59         46       26.0          39          34'(    24         2.20'
SIERam LEM1        77     3.4     250      4.94        14.0b      -    -     -     15b        37'      -          35       25.94         84          3511     22       0.40k?
IWOO               78     2.4     400      6,54"       26.54q     30' 28' 23'   3 8           74       40         54bt,    38,0          52          3231`17   48b      3.604?
LAkN8610  ANDI Til CAIRZM E2N 1
ARERNI3NA  78    27.3   2,210    ~~~~2.7    30.9       43' 31*  3IP    934         8        52         37       -             8?          33        8       23.00
31035*             79     0.2   1.770      5.7         39.3       38 3633    934             9         97         24       -             97          75       39      -
SAIRAUS            78     0.2   2.680      8,5"'?      22. la     43a  318  16'  ,99         300?      99'        27       3 9.9'1       99'        78        20?, 
SOOLIVIA           80     5.4      530     4. lay      30.5'      ------ 63                   747      -          207      -             -           I5?      ,-       32.40?
83A*1L             it   314.    3.770      3.8          4.2       53   -     134    76        73'?     -          236?      4,54b        61'         IS'?      4'?y   I2.62b
CR13.1             76    10.9  1I89"       3.24?Y      13.ob         -  --         -         13941x?    --        3447     -             -           55ba?    294?    31.90b?
COLONRIA           so    26.7b  3,3894b   3.3          MO.        35   20   20    434b        78       34         32        6.6          -          47'       20       10.02'?
COSTA *I(A         80     2. 24  1.816b    8.4         33.3       40   27   33    90          9 3      77 I        )        5.5          771         40       27       14.00
cuRm               78     9.8      -       8.0         13.0          -             94        I 324'?    98        38b?     -             98         7141?    I3S       19.0247
C5*INICAN UP.    80       S.3   1,030      7.9         33.0       39   23   22    68b        80        33         59        3,2          94         30        33       16.00
100*40             80     8.4b  3.310      6.01        38.7       45   33   34   83          105       -          34       32.6          I6         4         16      29.00
EL SAI.VA8         77     4.4     640      3.4b7       23.1k?     64   8S 27    62           8*411?    32         39       --            41         244'?    2747       7,9047y
C3IAVIAL           is     6.8   3,030      3.7w?S      33,4        -     -  -                69411?    -          35bY     -             49          J$'Y    194?       5.50?
436AM              74     0.1     630      8,34?       33.8b?     -    --                       bxy9    --        324?     -             -          59457    -          3.0047
HAITI             so      5.94    230      3.4"         ?,9'?     65    9    6   '23b         50       20         43       3 9.0         639         40       2 7      0.80
60OR0t*"           is     3.6      520     3,54?       14.3b?     62'  ISO  19'  60          4945    3No          434?     12.8'         695        21'?Y    39        8.0w
JAMAICA            80     2.3   3,330      4.5         13.7       37    43 20    90           98       98         40        2.3          95         83        22       8.00
mEXICO             80    65. 5    ,88      4.7         17.06      44   39   35S   92          98        3         44        9.5          86          56       37       30.3
steRAM        78     2. 0    4394    3.06"        34.04      -     - -        gob        554't    24         374      .-            -           244'     394b       -I
94883A             78     t.Sb  ::$59b    5,Sbwy      23.8b?      642  13'  13    62b        95by      -          3547     31.6          85'        50b?      2747    20.404?
PARAGlIA           79     3.0   1,340      1.4"        34,2       42   17   20    84         83        32         28        ).If         76         22        32       0,70
mEu                80    14.6   3,000      3.4        34.3        53   35   39    s0         83        56         39        9.4         039         39        22       14.40?
782816686 & T8.   77      3.3   3.930      6.6k?        1.847     48   32   20    91         98        91         30       30.5S?        49         43        24 
3IRIGIau           78     2.9   2,500      2.          9,4b       -.  ---          94        iosbi      -         244      ...-                     6444'             17.80'?7
VINEZiJEI          I8    34.4   3*440      S.1 3T 8.94              - -    -    82           106411    -          28              -                  384b1    37      2.3.0?



- 115 -                                                   Angib.le 
Pane 2 of 2
OO3WaRfa?I LIOCATION tuotvIAoRs
7b00er  2. tSJ7
2XPE8nOIU       1 SPATION                    CONPLItIO8         juNt I
ON RuATIoN  8303224         AWLt             UTS PCI              13t1 cmOO j 20
CGN  MR             AS UP42021    RNINIT s LIttRACY P23R3.A2 P81tK          p2IDaRy I      1   ITK FM    sUCOIRv scoNan  "0g1ri
MU   POP. CAPIUt PEt803 GNP TOTUL CENTL ALLCATDO TO$ RAT$            11NROL. sewn        1 5           b I SWAM   P2"WART TO  NRLL.  STUt8   S  RL.
teu HILS.  US)   0901  3D TO                  PPV236T    FRI * C  N1   (2)   RttO   CTCL  PR     AS PRCIT S3008mRT   UTIO         PU        RAtO
(1979) (1979)   AUTT"  gxPEoItUt              (*)       (1976)   (2)       (2)    tgAC11  GRu7PCAPITA    (2)          (S)  tIANE        (CO
_   ()  (2)       (3)         (4)          (C)          (6)      (7)      (8)       (9)       (10)        (I1)       (12)      (83)   (14)
1 .6b   310b    1.1        7.1       lt   O    22      7b      77       62        2S        8.0         65         iS       I7       4.80
NIESIA           831   I0.S3     S20     2.1         9.1       70  24    6      S2b      98       61        37       11.0         74         27       24       3.70
IOREA            *2    39. lb  1.636b    7.7W       M0.O       34  34   31    96         9        98        43       19.0         9S                  is8     21.80
MATSU             84    1S.2b  187Ob   6.1         16.7       39'  4r   38o   70b       97a      97        26        13.3'       89         72       22       4.00
P4M  N.C.        83      3.0'    820    3.4         19.0       40   37  22      -        60       7Y6       33       15.0         35         3P3      275      1.00
P1LIPPItNS        79    48.Jb    6906    2.8r       14.0       64   36   --   196        84       65        31        7.1         89         Ss       36      21.00
SINAPORE         80      2.4   4.420    2.7          6.7       39  40   16    83         92       82        33        8.8         96         t5       22       2.00
SO3NO ISL.        82     0.26   640      6.4        39.0b      4   34   20      15       78       80        27       10.5         40         20       38       2.tO
tI#AtLUf7         82    49.0b    800b    3.4        20.)        9   34  30    86b       I03       6         23        9.Y3        44         46       18       6.00
$001M ASTA
tEASI             79    92.3b     90     I.IP       3.'la      5t3  17  20    22b        637      -         33         .6         -          14       23       1.43
sUilA             8O     1.2      80     3.6        11.0       -  -      -      10       12       -                    -                     -        -       -
INDIA             17  659.6      210     2.gr        9.9        -    -    -     36       79'      -         41       -            -          28'       -       8.30"
tPL               82    15.0b    1so5    3.4       -           -_9                       70       -         38                               21       23       3.70'
7t2STAx          82   87.3b    380       2.0         7.0       38  20 2         22       50       41        30        5.9         54         21       IS       3.00
Sistom, 81D8g EASY aND  01   ARCA
*PCNA3iINtAN      77    15.5     -       1.7         3.7       67   19  IS    12         3b6    69          37b      -            62          8       22b?    3.00Y
IRWgxA            79    18.3   3,770     3.8'       12.3       34a  26' 214   3S         83f      A*        17        7.0t        35         29r      26       3.70?
101T              82    43.1*    6304    4.6         7.9       313  33' 264   44         7Y       80'       W         9.8         83'        43'      9"    I3.00
Cann02            76     9.3   4,140     2.60       10.6b      37  26  23 I              97- b    -         2gb       6.2t        -          7gba     2tb    17.80by
tamA             79    36.9     T-       5.7'?      14.3'?    -    -     -  _S0         3o03X     -         32       -      _     -          44"      24'      4.00'
la"              79    12.6   2,t10     4.3'?        6.9a7     -     _-                 I 0       -         28       -            -          43S?y    29       9.30'?
IM2AN0           81      3.4b    480    6.Y07       11.8'4    -   ---           98      93        94        29       -            98         81       14      Il.00
J10RW            81      2,2b  1.42ob    4.gr       10.2       19   4   18    70b        57       85        32       15.1         -          57       38       8.90
LEAO              79  2.3   -    -                  18.6"?y  -           -    -          9-    -             g9    -              -          46x              27.80'?
I3060000          84    23.2b    670b    6.07       22.9       384 3  19        33       57        9        31       15.1         -          10       38       *.90o
oA                85     1.2b 6.490      3.2        12.7P     -_   --           30bt    7p        6Y'       253      -            90         11       14      ...
PORTUAL           79     9.8b  2.060     3.6        22.2       50  28  i3    78          97       20        L9       12.8         88a        43x      It       8.31J
RONANIA          78    22.1 2.100        3.96?       6.2?      - --             98      106        -        23       -            98         84bx    22b      10.60b1
SPAIN            76    37.0  4.920       2.1?       16.01      -    _   _                g8by     -         2gb      -                       67t      _-    24.1ob3
*StUA             78    8.6  13170       4.4P       10.3       39   25  26    58          7b      80        33b      -            6          4Aby     21b     12.60
tSIA              79     6.4  13130      7.0P       19.0       42  39   18    62b       10        80        39b      12.8         30         30'      30       6.00
TURwr            83    47.S  1.230    3.3           16.2       50   22  24      73b    310        77        31        6.0        5S          26       11       8.00
TUN 4.8.         80     6.8    420       S.0Pw      12.0      94    7    7    23b        37       IP       3)Y       67.0         83          3       20       1.10
go       P.D.R.  82     2.0b    420b   7.6          9.7       630  14   8a    53        61        34       23        22.0'       4           17       20       2.30
53812 PCI. IeVEPIN  CONtRIEiS:
_.i6       =   0 rorle                4U              93      70  69   67    81         92       68        95       65           75         93       a8      83
(1.4-         (3.7-  (t3-  (8-  (5-   (8-    (12-    (3*-          (I7-    (1.4-        (30-        (I-      (t.    (0.03-
10.0)        34.3) 94)    6) 33)   99)         319)    99)         77)      67.0)        300)       84)      48)    29.0)
pvlles: lIpors                          5.6          21.t    33  36  22    83           96       80        43       20           87         47       26      11.0
Nedin:s                      4.0          16.1    43   28   19    53         83       61        33       13           65         26       22       3.7
Lowr:                        3.0          11.0     30 21 13    25            60       35        28        9           40         14       19       1.0
qnaytil. 0nt"leat:                      1.3           5.4   6.5  7.S  4.5  28.0       19.0    z2.5        7.0      3.6         23.3       16.3      3.5       3.0
Un:                                     4.           17.0    46  2818          53       76       39        36       16           82         31       23       6.9
Standard VowEtlons                      1.9           8.7    12  30   7    29           27      ;14        11       13           27         23        7       7.4
Notion:                                 4.0          16.0    43   28   19    53         83       tl        33       I3           65         26       22       3.7
STIsmO:                                                             OOt12012
-    OMU  wdA?AtwjAlO                                                A t l*htX  PRIR TO "AtN TM               S - 3I12S23 07  WuCATION (31) 0Qt
...08173 0U t3 Oft xRC31683                                     8 * DATt1  MU0 URE   TM  22  TA             * 1106U480 STAT  009236 any
t    MTtW  "EtONM                                                    N * C02R28? ftES                        U * PtlIC  PRotT    ONLt
t tNCLCIS PART-TIM  STU5     NS                                      2 *   N    NROUgtNT RATIO                I * i UR own-AM STUtS
P- 0206  RERLINtN  RATIO                T I -360  100802
P * COP
O8032S:        Colu.ns I end 2: Vorld 11k Atlas or Edwcati. sector field dations.
Colums 3 to 14: Ibrd4 8ank  ducatton sector 6Aso1 . Corverage    ource ondtor the Vasc StattaUcel ttarbn*.
Coeratti, Uuctiou Data ore uneful t the *Valuatlon of vartow 4ductato  systemsn ad analysis of rolet" stages of dwational m vlop_6t bea  en vartio
ooWttiS.  806t6, o0 the besta of t*h  pteeent deLd. cr0o6-6ational compartis  shoul be approAbehd witb gret cauto..  bt  prmseated in the aboe table hav
bhe. collected largely by  ltasn 6610 1m_ rca 80"1ost agross  the re*erlnd e   tO staff 6stime.8 or daot  (tox V6o. Uffonoh bent 6*k so" to  tand4rdIse
deflalttone end. withIn lits. to check she &ccracy of the date. x v.rth.leae. such data et otill tmerfect Is ser1 respects and the Sxak to workIAg to
improe  thbe  progreaitvly an the occaaton of Its OpOrft"nnl work.  In the wee of these date, the followaIg q ltifcatlons shod be kept tn mindd
(1)   SEducatoe as deftned i. the tabl Incledes all educatton nd traintng, both torml and non-ftol.
(2)    Priesr  education  reten to eduetton at the first levl end nsecoard         education rfore to all decetton at the secodry 1661  regerdlees of tyP
(e.g. g5nc67l. technic al. arlcultwrel).
0)   *Uterycy ratesa (Col. 6) are often ob:snsd Ptoe country c e nswc.  In  amy co00trtle  they are only approstltione and It ts doubtful that any  ntorm
deftnition of 'Itterte  has bsn followed conststently.
'P ublic, .apendtture tn  dutiona  (cola- 4 nd 5) refers to all capital ad recurrent expenditures devoted to  ducettla by ptbitc and qust-pbitc
aencle.
)    Enrolleent rattoo, (cola. 7. 132 and  4) rter to school year ad are the percentage of elItble chtildren *nrolled fuIl-tti   in th  approoprite echool,
publtc and private by levl.  the? are often ewbjeet to e wide mttai of error In the davelopInx coutatrti  owtng to varita n ti  the tccurec? of ba6sc
daet  (i.o.. 4epuf Ict popltion end cnrollt#).  EArollae    ftauEro   frea  ttunlY are hietSr thea the nuber of *tnde  actually tn echool.
Over-amld etudente ser be Included tn thne ftgure aand can ilate the ratios.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT i
DtJfATION SECTOR   JT
RiEPUlIC 0i w!
brganization of the Ministry of Education NW Cultture
J         M,n.uer       J
SoUd    ,   ot Eduetmaawad                                I   "* I                 U9I     i   I ,IofAGMmauI"
Swmswv
Autn                       l                         I   w
*I scla_f_ j                                                                                      3 
L              11CatAn                              A t"  dmC&m 
.towy. T                             11
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~saw4adEswv
Sawourefaaw              it    Edcdio    Poject
Sd        0St ff Aprasa    Reor



FwE1IJ,.lI. AAIX,.lTIZt. X~ trf MtittISTRT OF &ACATIG NV CLT'JRE bY THE MID IM IS
___ ___ ___ ___ __   *4"IStE  Q
r                                                           I
I   ,-- -          --.___-
.I ISCY  FtjICKCI                                  EXCIL   1--  _  3 ATIti fN OJLTURE
TEONICAL-VC-CAT 104Pl
ADVISORY COUCLt
6NER M141sisfc  z.v .:1                       tATRO          3-.4EF IItt5PECT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                           lJ
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ME A14                                                            :8ERA
EDUCATI34LArTIVk tIES SE4I Y          E.*3f                                                                              MNISRAZQ
s~~~~e j         .U 1 r                                 .7  .-     EDUC0   ,  11
f IELD                                             FEOPaICAL-   triRiTI           THE PtCFESSIOPL   AtA1sTG ILSW
fDlSTATIQ4L   _ JAI4C AR)    TEc1R I                   OCATIMAL    AN POST _        ATIJ AL      BUCATIM GI
A014IMSTRATION           MICAlUM    b-Ar-ATIOI  O5ICATIfF    SECOSTA   ISI  C|UTE            SENWCS
Flap POSTED                     ME"S OF S1CAIIQ4M  VISTITlJTR@d
PUOFMISSI'                                   AWD                                 FIEwD POTED                           JTISUPT
STAFF                                T!EA4RS/STAFF                             IPC5STF
- Ope.                                                                            - 5cmavy. mnistry 
tdedwsl, Ministry
Source:  Education Development Plan,                                        le4E"c                                                            _
(19&5-1995)  Operational                                             "*W-Nwtets
bupplements. Kinistry of Education
and Culture.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
E3DUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
2R~PUBLIC uF MA&LAWI
STRUCTUfRE O9 ttE EDUCATION SYSTEM
tSC&   "> {- ezhlSchodiNs.- d
malAAi Cowr"is"dence College
.l                     T      T "k       Tralmu    .
U                    ~~~~~~Overmse
-   -  Sic               H SC
Lniversitv of MSNi
Kam       CoUh of Nursing
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al Co u Clee of AWkhi
. .                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Oip.A,.  B.x.lAAWI
Chcd     Coleg
qlEd. B.A. 9-.b.
Dip sus. .tcom. B-.tEag
Dip.E.  9.Scffah.Fd
Ctustxnows                                                      l                      oPoytecmc foard of  Gs
2
Source:   Education Statistics, Malawi 1985.  Ministry of Education
and Culture.



S1 A ?~ AfRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
PRIMARY Set36L ENROLMENTS 1984165
SW  lO1*S      ERNROLENT                                                    SOs        tRLS                                             CGILS    REPEATERS
Jos % of stdl I                                                                                                          (Pt% agm, d st4I
8  86747       36                                                       934 \\  \N  2                                                    30       38
60934                                       2W13
J  55J78       23                                                            *2! <     9                                                 38       I3
_  34162                    21216
b  69306        29                                                           4         0         -1                                               11
4t021                            28185
572832    ~31                                                            172     so,  -Q ----_4 
12503 J3       S32
94009        39                                 11590                                             40O                                 43        to
1 nSJ                                                                                                                                             i 3W2s 
128                                                                                                                                      ISbO toor 69 p3k6IS1
TOA'                                              15*96>                                                 3637' 76 831 
It4 IKATL                                          8t?80                         |                          5613                            Goo sol
140 193                                                              AS .mu
Source:  Education Statistics, Malawi 19P5.  ::inistry of Education
and Culture



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT-.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Proposed First Education Sector Investment Credit
N I F                                POST PRMAY ENROLMgiTS  19S1815
6      20
5      12029   Hf
3     36  t3    S t                               T      F     HF
T3
.  ,        .             ~~~~~2701UO
2                  G2A w               0  p               2
216 123
1      34 ,        78                12566                                                  HF 02  f
T2
ff                      3823  -3 -                        6     1tI7 
2033
IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                        222~~~4a  4              MS295
487                                           2233                    54                              7G13
I~~~~~                                              I 3             4t                             6 
FUL TUGS                                                  TEACER
SCHOOLS          TRAMC
*EUM1E#M    I60S| 359                    16t |?26ulxg
TDULc.       so" t141964                    21443          .1920
RiTEC^Ro                                       TI 0WECHOWAL               NM K S S
BOR OF GUNOM RSs                                                           s
PAT TE
ENoITS              24                                              son                      nss6   36Z6
TOTALS                2                                                a                        S1
Source:  Education Statistics, Malawi 1985.  Min-istry of Education
and Culture.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20068R
*~~Zffffi_      <ns  ,2                       ~M A L A W I
ON>- \ s    EDUCATION SECTOR
~~ChIunga                          CREDIT
~~~  ~ ~ ~     ~    ~       ~General and Day
0   >  }  t      - \    >        E3   G eceoandanrySchools
Conversion MCC Into Day
^  > 1   8   Z  w  Secondary Schools
1500 Primary School
\  j '  , b    A, -  Classrooms
/!        / n F                           (Locations to be Determined)
<  ;     >  a3   National Examination Center
@    MCC Headquarters
'. k7                      \             @    MCC Regional renters
'7  RT f,#RN  
/4t      ficewR    tate  -_    Principal Roads
t/ -f               i Lh; - - Railroads
~--Rivers
*)   R  G / OzV              }         -      Region Boundarles
International Boundaries
Z    A    M    B    I  A            5                f       J
/ ._,.f j7 < 2 \ ~~~ltom5m  0 2, 40 6p  SPM
AP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~#u {{                           ioa iD i
1-lc4   *.,                  Do       "'-,    
XJ  g    RA  G\o  t      <  \   +  M  O  ZAM   BI Q   U  E
14.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
L'_ -  1~~~~~e,O
for                                                       *t  o'lwc Ofb MO
e.t* *w lo ahe e, .* kw                                                 I
ZAiwftb0W!t
,IA               M   O   Z A  M   B  I Q   U  E/
z A I R E    v   X vDlX~~~~~~  hW4          %               aA
SOAWA NA,  *'(
-    _          _         f        4 t Cr 
JANUARY 1987



