Dowmt or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4409-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 21.4 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
March 5, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(September 1986)
MK 1.00 = US$ 0.50
US$ 1.00 = MK 2.00
(January 31, 1987)
SDR 1.00=. US$1.27
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMIS
DEO       District Education Office
JC        Junior Certificate
JCE       Junior Certificate Examination
MCC       Malawi Correspondence College
MCE       Malawi Certificate of Education
MCE/TB    Malawi Certificate of Education and Testing Board
MOEC      Ministry of Education and Culture
MIE       Malawi Insititue of Education
ODA       Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PSLE      Primary School Leaving Examination
PIll      Project Implementation Unit
PTTC      Primary Teacher Training College
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:  Ministry of Education end Culture
Amount:        SDR 21.4 Million (US$27.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard IlnA terms.
Credit         The Credit's objectives are to (a) increase access to primary
Description:  and secondary education through the expansion of facilities,
increased allocation of budgetary resources, and
implementation of efficiency measures to improve the flow of
students entering and completing these levels of education;
(b) improve the quiality of primary and secondary edutcation
through the tipgrading of teachers and teaching materials and
the provision of adequate textbooks; and Cc) improve
sector management throuigh strengthening of the Ministry of
Education and Culture (KOEC), with technical assistance and
training, and through measures to improve educational quiality
and efficiency. In support of these objectives, the
Government would implement its Policy Action Program as
described in its Letter of Education Policies. Progress in
implementing the reform program would be reviewed jointly
between IDA and the Government during a mid-term review which
would be held not later than June 30, 1989.
Credit proceeds would finance a three year time slice of the
education investment program (1985-1995) which has been
reviewed and agreed with IDA. Priority investments have been
agreed to be: (a) at the primary level: the construction and
equipping of about 1500 classrooms and associated staff
housing, provision of about 2 million basic student
textbooks, and in-service training for primary school
teachers; (b) at the secondary level: the construction and
equipping of two boarding schools and 1 day school,
conversion of 3 [CC facilities to secondary schools, as well
as improvement of MCC's organization and operations; (c)
education management would be improved through the provision
of tecinical assistance and fellowships, the merger of the
two national teacher examination systems and the carrying out
of studies to monitor and evaluate the efficiency of
implementing project investments, the cost effectiveness of
various education inputs and instruction methods, and a
tracer study on the income effects of post primary schooling;
and (d) establishment of a University student loan scheme.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
o their ofcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



- 1± -
Benefits      Benefits would accrue to students at all levels through
and Risks:    increased access to quality educational opportunities.  The
main set of risks relate to flnancial and human resource
constraints which might slow down implementation of the
proposed investment plan. First, there is a risk that the
Government may have difficulty increaslng the share of the
budget devoted to education. However, this risk would be
minimized by increased user charges for boarding and lodging
at all educational levels. Second, not meeting the increased
need for qualified tepchers to improve access to education
and to improve student flows may slow expansion of primary
education and the attainment of reduced pupil:teacher
ratios. This risk is mitigated by the provision of a
significant amount of training for new teachers and for
teacher upgrading. And third, the complexity of reforms to
be undertaken would require strong and efficient sector
management. Technical assistance and training to the
Ministry of Education and Culture for management and
administration would support the Government's commitment to
implemert its reform package.
Estimated Cost:                                      Local   Foreign   Total
--  (US$ Million)…
Expansion of Secondary Education        2.6      2.9       5.5
Improvements of Primary Education       7.9     10.5      18.4
Institutional Development               0.8      3.6       4.4
Improved cost recovery                  0.5      0.5       1.0
Total Base Costs                       11.8     17.5     29.3
Physical Contingencies                  1.2      1.7       2.9
Price Contingencies                     1.1      0.7       1.8
Total Costs a/                         14.1     19.9     34.0
Financing Plan:
Government a/                           4.4      -         4.4
IDA                                     9.0     18.0     27.0
ODA                                     0.7      1.9       2.6
Total                                  14.1     19.9      34.0
a/   Including taxes and duties estimated at US$1.0 million.
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank PY               1988   1989   1990   1991  1992   1993
-    --(US$ Million)------          ---
Annual              1.6    5.7    7.5    6.5   4.3    1.4
Cumulative          1.6    7.3   14.8   21.3  25.6   27.0
Rate of Return:            Not Applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6428-MAI of February 24, 1987
MAP: IBRD 20068R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Education Sector Credlt to the Republic of Malawi ln an amount of SDR 21.4
million (US$27.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5801-MAI) dated October
4, 1985, was circulated to the Executive Directors on October 15, 1985.
Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 7
million people in 1985), landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi hbs no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        With a GNP per capita of US$170, Malawi has been identified by
the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries. Nevertheless,
from Independence in 1964 until 1979, Halawi had steady economic growth,
averaging 6 percent per annum in real terms (3 percent per capita). The
leading sectors were agriculture and manufacturing. Investment rose from
9 percent of GDP at independence to 33 percent in 1979, financed by
increased domestlc savings (from nil to 14 percent of GDP in 1979), and
rising official and private capital inflows. In 198.0 and 1981 Malawi met
with serious difficulties due to world economic conditions, structural
Imbalances in the economy and deficient Government policies, and GDP
contracted by 6 percent over those two year;. Consumption fell somewhat,
but savings and investment were reduced drastically. Recovery began in
1982, with growth averaging 3.2 percent through 1985, but preliminary
Indications show no economic growth in 1986.
5.        Halawi's economic growth has been due in large part to the
pragmatic policies of the Government. Malawi has adopted an outward
looking strategy based on agriculture, consistent with the country's
resource endowment. Government investment has concentrated on provision of
infrastructure, utilities and support services to encourage private
initiative. The Government has also emphasized agriculture, a sound policy
given that 90 percent of the population lives in rural areas and depends on
agriculture for its livelihood. Traditionally, more than half of the
development budget has been directed towards agriculture and transport.
I/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as those of
the President's Report on the Second Lilongwe Water Supply Project
(Report No. P-4374-MAI dated October 30, 1986).



6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar> and Is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. In 1980-85 these three commodities averaged 70 percent
of total exports and 16 percent of GDP. Slnce 1974, there have been
periodl. balance of payments problems of increaslng severity due primarily
to (a) rapid escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and
intermediate and capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of
tobacco, sugar and tea; (c) significantly higher costs of transport for
exports and imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion
in Mozambique, and, more recently, severe disruptions of overland transport
routes through Mozambique resulting in complete severance of direct rail
links to Mozambique ports in 1984; and (d) an increasing debt service
burden.
Economic Developments 1978-86
7.        Beginning in 1978, Malawi's chronic balance of payments problems
became less manageable. The current account deficit rose from a level of
8-9 percent of GDP In the mid-19709 to 18 percent in 1978 and 23 percent in
1979. Import prices rose by 39 percent over this period, primarily due to
petroleum price hikes. Conversely, export prices declined by 16 percent
(iue mainly to falling tea and cobacco prices). In 1980 and 1981, a
drought led to reduced agricultural exports and necessitated increased
imports of subsistence crops (maize).  Nevertheless, by 1981 Malawi enjoyed
a surplus on the merchandise trade balance (f.o.b.) thanks mainly to a
contraction in imports and has increased this surplus steadily since 1981.
Continuing current account deficits were due to a large deficit on the
service accounts. Transport costs for imports and exports were greatly
increased due to continuing problems with traditional export routes through
Mozambique. Debt servicing also contributed to the deficit on the
invisibles account. These current account deficits were initially financed
by sharply increased private capital inflows. These were still not
sufficient to finance the current account deficit and the country drew down
its foreign reserves to less than one month of imports by end 1983. In
1984, the current account deficit was greatly reduced to three percent of
GDP and reserves were increased by US$65 million. This was due to
improvements in the terms of trade, led by record tea prices, and a sharp
increase in exports, as previous stocks of tobacco and sugar were moved out
of the country, resulting in a large trade surplus, nearly matching the
deficit on the services account. By contrast, in 1985 terms of trade
experienced a drastic downturn, mainly owing to a sharp drop of tobacco
prices, which in conjunction with expansionary fiscal and monetary policies
provoked a current account deficit of 9 percent of GDP. Again, reserves
fell to insufficient levels. Preliminary data seem to indicate for 1986 a
slight reduction in the current account deficit to about 8 percent of GDP,
although this was achieved by sharply limiting imports. At the same time,
the overall BOP deficit was more than US$80 million. A major item in this
deficit is short term outflows and errors and omissions equal to more than
US$90 million. If some of this outflow turns out to be security related
imports, then the current account deficit will be higher. In any case, the
country has not been able to finance all of this deficit and import payment
arrears were about US$60 million at the end of 1986.
8.       The economic difficulties of 1980-81, as well as problems with
public corporations, led to an increase in the Government budget deficit
reaching 16.5 percent of GDP in 1981, double historic levels. This was due



- 3 -
primarily to a rapid increase in government expenditures, attaining 35
percent of CDP in that same year. Much of this was made up of recurrent
expenditures, especially interest payments. Revenues did not increase
commensurately, given the recession, hence the large fiscal deficit. These
deficits were financed by government borrowing, primarily domestic. Public
sector credit represented 60 percent of total domestic credlt in 1984 and
as a percentage of GDP it increased to 13 percent in 1984 as compared to 9
percent in 1974. The fiscal position had improved with increased revenues
and restrained spending, so that the deficit was reduced to 8.9 percent of
GDP by FY84f85 and 10.9 percent by FY85/86, though still above target
levels. Indications are that the deficit may increase to at least 12.5
percent of GDP in FY87, as the severe import cuts reduced Government
revenues, and expenditures are likely to exceed the budget by significant
amounts. Improving expenditure control is a key element to continuing
Malawi's economic recovery. Inflation has been within a range of 10-15
percent since 1981.
9.        Given Malawi's early stage of development, foreign capital
inflows, especially of a public nature, have been important in development
financing. In the pre-recessionary period (1969-79), foreign
savings financed approximately half of domestic investment. During the
recession (1980-81), public and private capital inflows were used to
maintain consumption levels, and domestic savings fell. Since 1981,
domestic savings have been increasing, while private inflows have virtually
ceased. Public transfers continue, financing approximately 50 percent of
all investment. While multilateral assistance, led by World Bank Group
loans and credits, has increased, grants and bilateral transfers have
declined from past levels, and have not kept pace with Malawi's needs.
Stabilization and Adjustment Programs
10.       Initially, the country attempted to offset the economic downturn
of 1979-1980 by increased external borrowing, mostly on commercial terms,
in order to maintain import levels and thus production, employment and
consumption. It soon became evident that with increasing inflationary
pressures and fiscal and balance of payments disequilibria, more stringent
adjustment efforts were needed. The Government, therefore, launched a
stabilization effort designed to reduce short-term fiscal and balance of
payments disequilibria and a structural adjustment program designed to
improve efficiency of resource use and ensure that positive growth of per
capita income can be reestablished and sustained over the medium and
longer-term within the context of a manageable balance of payments current
account deficit. The structural adjustment program is broad-based; aimed
at encouraging diversification of production and exports, improving
performance of productive sectors, rehabilitating, restructuring and
otherwise strengthening key development institutions, and improving
resource mobilization and allocation in the public sector.
11.       The Government and the INF agreed to a standby program for SDR 22
million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standbv was



-4-
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new
multi-year program. A three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in
September 1983 and, was successfully implemented until April 1985. In
early 1986 due to a combination of unfavorable terms of trade and
inadequate domestic policy response, the programmed targets for public
sector deficit and domestic credit expansion were not achieved. As a
result, the Extended Facility became inoperative. Under the Extended
Facility program an active foreign exchange policy was pursued. Thus, in
September 1983 the Government devalued the Kwacha against the SDR by 12
percent and in January 1984 the Kwacha was pegged to a basket of seven
currencies. In April 1985, the Kwacha was devalued by 15 percent in terms
of the reference basket to reverse a real appreciation which had taken
place since late 1983, was devalued again by an additional 10 percent in
August 1986, and 20 percent in February 1987. The Government of Malawi and
the IMF are currently discussing a posslble new Standby Arrangement and an
SAF loan.
12.       The Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan in support of the
Government's program was made in June 1981, for US$45 million. After
initial difficulties, good progress was made in implementing the
Government's adJustment program. Additional funds were allocated to the
agricultural sector, certain agricultural prices were adjusted, public
utility tariffs were increased and the budget for 1982-83 was triamd, with
sufficient resources provided for major development sectors. The second
tranche was released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the country's
efforts were set back by increased disruption of the traditional transport
routes and contlnued depressed demand for Malawi's export products.
Nevertheless, the country was able to hold its current account deficlt to
11.3 percent of GDP in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for FY1982/83 to
9 percent of GDP, and meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
13.       The second phase of the structural adjustment program was
supported by a Second Structural Adjustment Credit approved by the Board in
December 1983. The second phase builds upon the reforms of SAL I,
focussing on measures to improve the mobilization and management of
resources, to strengthen key institutions, and to upgrade the performance
of the public sector. The program has been successful in achieving most of
its objectives. Among the achievements of the program have been (a)
increased smallholder export production following an increase In price
incentives; (b) increased industrial production and investment incentives
resulting from a program of price decontrols; (c) increased domestic energy
production; (d) a strengthening of the financial position of key public and
private enterprises; and (e) a reduction in the budgetary and balance of
payments deficits. Efforts to improve the control and allocation of public
expenditures and to reduce the overall size of Government have been slow,
but steps in the right direction have been taken. While the economy has
grown at a moderate rate in 1983-85, prospects are for continued economic
difficulties and the need for continued adjustment to balance of payments,
fiscal and transport constraints.
14.       An IDA Credit for US$30 million equivalent and a US$40 million
equivalent African Facility Credit for the Third Structural Adjustment
Operation were approved by the Board on December 19, 1985. The third phase
of the program is designed to encourage productivity and efficiency,
diversify the export base and promote exports, strengthen the Government's
policy making capability, and improve the performance of development



-5 -
institutions. The Government has taken action, inter alia, to reduce
subsidies, complete the price deregulation procese, strengthen its policy
and planning units, reduce parastatal deficits, and rationalize the role of
the Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation, including a compre-
hensive reform of the agricultural marketing system. The second tranche
was released In October 1986, about three months behind schedule mainly
because of delays In preparing the Government's three year public sector
investment program and setting up an export promotion program. In January
1987, the Board approved a supplemental financing credlt to SAL III to
further support reform efforts in agricultural marketing and pricing.
External Debt Restructuring
15.       By the end of 1985, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled almost US$800 million. In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled
both its officlal and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing,
including repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130
million, equivalent to about 48 percent of exports of goods and services.
This compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second
year of rescheduling was agreed to ln October of 1983, keeping the debt
service ratio to 28 percent in 1983. The Government has not asked for any
further rescheduling. The debt service ratio was above 40 percent in 1986
but is expected to fall to about 26 percent by 1989. Because of this high
debt service ratio, commercial bank borrowing will have to remain sharply
curtailed and the balance of payments gap should be closed by concessionary
financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
16.      Over the past 21 years, Malawi has received 36 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit, totalling about US$512 million, and 10 Bank loans
totalling US$124 million, of which 2 were on third window terms. Malawi
has also received one African Facility Credit totalling US$40.0 million
equivalent. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on third window terms
in June 1976 and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977. Of Bank Group
assistance, some US$182 million (27 percent) was for agriculture, US$108
million (16 percent) for education, US$114 million (17 percent) for roadB,
US$168 million (25 percent) for structural adjustment, US$39 million (6
percent) for power, US$31 million (5 percent) for water, and the balance of
US$35 million (5 percent) for health, development finance, technical
assistance, and urban housing. In FY86, a credit of US$11.6 million
equivalent for an Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project, a
US$30.0 million equivalent IDA Credit and a US$40.0 million African
Facility Credit for the Third Structural Adjustment Operation, a US$7.6
million loan for an Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project, and a loan
of US$16.7 million equivalent for a Second Wood Energy Project were
approved. For FY87 a US$20.0 million equivalent credit for the Second
Lilongwe Water Supply Project has been approved, as well as a US$10.0
million supplemental credit from the African Facility. Additional lending
operations are planned ir. transport, health and agriculture. IFC's equity
participations and lending commitments in Malawi total about US$27.9
million and include investments in textiles, sugar, a Development Finance
Corporation (INDEBANK), tourism, the manufacture of alcohol from molasses
and a leasing and finance company. In addition, a US$0.5 million equity
subscription and US$3.2 million loan investment in the Viphya Pl)woods and
Allied Industries United were approved in August 1984 and August 1986.



Annex II contains a Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations as of
September 30, 1986.
Bank Lending Strategy
17.       Support for the Government's structural adjustment program will
continue to remain a focal point of the Bank's landlng program. Greater
emphasis will be placed, however, on new Initiatives designed to achieve
more effective productivity gains, and to bring about more vigorous
production and export diversification results. Equally important will be
efforts to help the Government strengthen its institutions in charge of
economic management with a view to solidifying the policy changes that have
been made and expanding the capacity for taking future policy lnitiatives.
Another area of emphasis will be human resource development. Malawi's life
expectancy, infant survival, primary school enrollment and completion, and
secondary school enrollment rates are among the lowest in the world, while
the population growth rate is among the highest. Finally, Malawi needs
support in its efforts to further improve the efficiency of resource use,
identify potential sources of future growth and promote resource
conservation. Increased aid coordination and mobilization will be needed
for Malawi to reach its growth potential.
18.       Our economic and sector work will focus on helping the Government
formulate its medium and longer term development strategy. The next CEN
(FY87) will focus on this toplc. Other ESW will complement the program
related to institutional and human resource development and
diversification. Identifying areas of development management that need
strengthening will contribute to helping the Government to institutionalize
the reforms that it has been making. To help develop a strategy for
diversification and privatization will require in depth looks at the
National Rural Development Program (NRDP) and the agricultural sector as a
whole as well as defining an industrial development strategy. As progress
has been made in the SALs to improve the industrial policy environment, the
focus of the industrial sector work will be on institutions and policies
which affect investment incentives and opportunities. The recommendations
of a report on the parastatal sector will provide a basis for the
Government's restructuring of parastatals. Sector work on local
governments will focus on increasing cost recovery for urban services and
on strengthening the role of local authorities in providing for urban
services.
19.       A Consultative Group meeting was held in January 1986 with the
objective of improving donor coordination and increasing the level of
resources needed to support Malawi's adjustment process. Local aid
coordination efforts have been increasing and a second CG is expected in
1987.
External Debt
20.       The Bank Group's share of Malawi's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1985 was about 52 percent (IBRD: 10 percent,
IDA: 42 percent), and its share in debt service was about 12 percent.
Because Malawi is one of the least developed countries, many other donors
give aid on grant terms. Other major donors have been the United Kingdom,
the Federal Republic of Germany, the European Economic Community, and the
African Development Bank.



-7-
Disbursements
21.       The levels of disbursoments for Malawi, including program
lending, were au follows: in FY 1982, US$70.1 million; in FY 1983, US$33.2
million; in FY 1984, US$58.2 million; in FY 1985, US$46.4 million; and in
FY 1986, US$68.3 million. Disbursements of the lank Group loans and
credits In Malawi have generally been good and compare favorably with other
countries in the region and oven on a Bank-wide basis. The disbursement
rate on loans and credits to Malawi (excluding the effect of non-project
lending) has averaged about 26 percent per annum, significantly higher than
the Eastern Africa Regional average of 19 percent and the Bank-wide average
of about 21 percent.
Project Implementation
22.       In general, projects in Malawi have been implemented efficiently
and effectively. The Audit and Project Completion Reports underscore the
fact that project objectives are usually met and the benefits of
investments have been extended nationwide. During the period 1983-85,
there were problems due to inadequate budgetary provisions, but since then
these problems have been satisfactoril.y resolved. Halawi contlnues to rely
heavily on expatriate technical assistance for project management and
project accounting. Efforts are being made to increase the number of
trained Malavians in key positions and to strengthen the Government's
overall management capacity.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Overview
23.       Education is regarded in Malawi as the catalyst to economic
development and as a means to raise the population's living standards. The
main objective of investments in the sector has been to ensure that the
economy's need for trained manpower is met. The speclfic targets of the
Government's First Education Plan (1973-1984) were (a) to raise the gross
enrollment ratio at the primary level from 33.5 percent to 50 percent, and
at the secondary level from 3 percent to about 15 percent; and (b) to
improve the quallty of primary teacher education. During the first plan
which was supported in part by IDA's Second to the Flfth Education
Projects, gross enrollment at the primary level doubled to about 60
percent. However, nearly a mlllion children of primary school age are
without schooling due to inadequate facilities. At the secondary level,
enrollment increased from 3,100 in 1962 to about 20,000 currently.
However, this represents only about 5 percent of the eligible age group.
Between 1974 and 1981, University enrollments increased by about 10 percent
per annum; in primary teacher training institutions, the increase was 38.4
percent per annum; but in technical education, the increase was only about
7 percent per annum. While IDA's previous involvement in the sector has
been primarily in the form of investments in infrastructure and some
institutional improvements, there is growing awareness of the need to
systematically address financing and institutional issues which
increasingly affect the efficiency, quality and access to educational
opportunities.



- 8 -
24.       It is socially and economically productive for Malawi to expand
the resources being devoted to education. Data from the 1981 Household and
Income Expenditure Survey indicate that the rato of return on investment In
prlary education is about 13 percent; In secondary edujcation, 12-15
percent; and unlversity education, 11.3 percent. While these rates of
return are based mainly on earnings data, there is also considerable
evidence that the development of agriculturo, the mainstay of the econoWy,
is crucially dependent upon a literate labor force to improve its
productivity. Education of women also han an lmportant effect on fertility
levels.
B.  Issues, Policies and Institutional Development
25.       The proposed Credit would directly address sectoral issues which
have constrained the quality of and access to educational opportunities, as
well as finance the expansion of educational facilities. The Second Ten
Year Education Plan (1984/85-1994/95) provides the financial and policy
framework in which the Government's objectives for the sector are set.
26.       The Plan objectives are to (a) provide basic education to the
entire school age population; (b) increase access to quality education at
all levels; (c) improve educational eff±ctency in terms of improved student
flows; and (d) ensutre that the system fully satisfies the needs of the
economy for skilled manpower. The Government's commitment to carry out
necessary policy reforms to achieve these objectives is contained in its
Statement of Educational Policy (Annex IV) and proposed policy reforms are
summarized in the Policy Matrix (Annex V). The followlng paragraphs
discuss the current state of educational policy and institutional
development, ongoing Government efforts, and the proposed reform package.
Internal Efficiency
27.       Primary Education.  The efficiency of public education is low.
For primary education only about 23 percent of children who enter the
system complete the full eight year course of study. Currently, out of
848,000 enrolled primary school students, repeaters account for over
140,000 or 16.5 percent of total enrollment. Although the problem occurs
at every grade, it predominates in standard eight where 40 percent of the
class repeats every year. Elimination of repetition would reduce the
student per classroom and per teacher ratio to below 50:1 frow its current
average of 66:1. It takes an average of 16 years of schooling to produce
one eighth year graduate, making the cost per graducte twice the
theoretical cost if there were no dropout or repetition.
28.       Multiple repetition in standard eight is due to the structure of
the Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) and to the limited access to
secondary education. This exam primarily teste memory rather than
cognitive skills. As such, it (a) encourages retaking the exam until the
score is high enough to merit a secondary school place, and (b) is weighted
against students of the highest potential who complete the primary cycle
without repetition, but who inevitably score lower marks in a memory test
than other students who may have taken the test four or five times. To
alleviate these problems, the Government would implement measures to reduce
repetition in all classes to 5 percent, except in Standard 8 where a once
only repetition policy would be phased in as follows: by December 1987,



-9-
the Government would prepare a plan for implementation of the policy of
once only repetition in standard 8; by the 1988 academic year phasing in
the new policy would commence; and by the 1989 academic year the policy
would be fully implemented. Further by March 1988, the content and format
of the PSLE would be revised, and the new style examination which would
include testing of cognitive and written skills would be introduced at the
end of the 1988 school year. Restructuring of the PSLE would also include
establishment of a research section which would provide feedback to schools
on student schievement.
29.       Secondary Education.  The quality of formal secondary education
is relatively high. The student/teacher ratio is 21:1. However, many
teachers are not fully occupied with an average teaching load of only half
of a full school day. This is due to the facts that, first, teachers are
prepared at university to teach only one subject, thereby restricting their
use in fields outside their specialization; and, second, secondary school
facilities tend to be unused beyond mid-afternoon. As a result, the number
of subjects and places available is limited by staff qualifications and the
underutilization of secondary school facilities. To address this situation
the Government would carry out feasibility studies to convert up to 13
urban secondary schools to double shift institutions. The studies would be
completed by the beginning of the school year 1988/89, and the system would
be introduced at the beginning of the school year 1989/90. The Government
would also undertake to provide the university with a projection of its
teacher requirements by subject for the next 5 years by mid-1987. The
universltr then would be responsible for increasing enrollment in line with
these requirements.
30.       University.  A recent study on costs and efficiency of the
University system revealed that it is very inefficient compared with other
countries' systems. The study concluded and the Government endorsed the
recommendation that by increasing staff/student ratios to 1:10 for science
and 1:12 for arts courses from the current level of 1:8.4, university
enrollments could increase by up to 250 more students with the present
classroom and teaching establishment. The study further observed the
underutilization of boarding facilities. This is difficult to justify in
light of (a) excess demand for university places from fully qualified
secondary school graduates, and (b) the economy's need for skilled manpower
to fill administrative and managerial occupations. The 1979 Manpower
Survey noted the high percentage of non-Malawians in these positions. The
Government has undercaken to review University admission policies with a
view to ensuring that (a) for 1987/88 boarding accommodations would be
fully utilized, and (b) the target student:teacher ratios in all
departments would be achieved by 1991/92.
31.       Malawi Correspondence College (MCC).  The MCC is a set of
correspondence centers offering a lower cost alternative to formal
secondary schools. They are intended to function as support centers
offering radio and tutorial guidance to back-up the correspondence
materials. In practice, however, they are poorly managed and operate as
overcrowded and under-equipped pseudo secondary schools Whicb are staffed
by teachers who lack training as tutors and who attempt to conduct the
centers as formal scbools.  The situation is worsened by long delays in the
delivery of correspondence learning materials and in the marking and return



- 10 -
of student exercises. Predictably, the examination success rate is low
with less than ten percent of students taking the Junior Certificate
Examination (JCE) passing at a single sitting. The MCC concept is a
worthwhile experiment in cheap alternative secondary education which is now
ready for reappraisal and reformulation. To achieve a strengthening of
this system, the Government has commissioned a study by an experienced
distance education institution which details resources required for MCC
improvement over the plan period. The report recommends the general
principles of a new organizational structure and a plan to improve
management and to achieve better educational quality.   Under the Credit,
an experienced distance education institution would provide interim
management to the HCC in a "twinning arrangement" and would implement new
management procedures as well as provide staff training. The education
investment plan would also allocate Increased resources to MCC to improve
the quality of education offered.
32.       Primary Teacher Training and Deployment.  The present curriculum
provides little training in remedial and multigrade teaching and in student
assessment techniques. Implementation of the new repetition policy and of
efforts to increase utilization of teacher resources would require
increased teacher training in the use of these concepts. In addition to
building new Primary Teacher Training Colleges and expanding exi3ting
colleges by 19B7/88, the Government is revising the curricula to emphaslze
teacher pedagogical training. The distribution of teacher resources has
also been a problem. Although the average class size and student-teacher
ratio at the primarv level is 66, the average does not reflect the uneven
distrib'tion of te0..ners and the wide variation between districts.
Especially in urban and semi-urban areas ratios are in excess of 1OO
students per teacher.  To address this situation, the Government would
develop a system for better deployment of teachers by 1988 and institute a
system of yearly review of class sizes and pupil-teacher ratios in an
effort to move toward an average ratio of 55:1 by 1991.
33.       Teaching materials also need review.  The curriculum at the
primary level appears to be overloaded and needlessly fragmented with as
many as 10 or more subjects taught during 15 to 18 hours of weekly class
time. A more integrated approach (e.g., geography with history and civics,
general science with health and agriculture) would provide the student with
a better view of the world around him. There is also the need for a
fundamental review of what is taught. Almost all textbooks and teachers'
guides used in primary schools are the product of commercial publishers and
are often unsuitable for Malawi. The Government would complete by end-1987
a review of syllabuses. In addition, primary school curricula would be
revised to emphasize the basic skills and to reduce the number of subjects
taught. The HOEC's recurrent budget would be increased to permit a MK2
contribution per enrolled primary student for a textbook replacement fund
to supplement the parental contribution of MK1.00 and thereby overcome a
critical textbook shortage.
34.       National Examination Administration.  There are five national
examinations. The Malawi Certificate of Education (MCE) is administered by
the Malawi Certificate of Education and Testing Board (MCE/TB). The
primary school standard five examination, the PSLE, the JCE, and the
Primary Teacher Training Examination (PTTE) are administered by the



- 11 -
examination section of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC). The
existence of the two examination authorities results in needless
fragmentation of scarce specialized expertise needed for effective test
administration and analysis of results. Coordination is therefore urgently
needed in the organization of examinations, acquisition of equipment and
use of facilities and staff. Passage into law of the necessary legislation
to merge the two examination boards into a single examination body would be
a condition of credit effectiveness.
Financial and Cost Issues
35.       In addition to the efficiency improvement measures discussed
above which are expected to reduce unit recurrent expenditures, there are
also cost recovery issues which would be tackled. The Government has
already set an objective to increase secondary boarding fees from the
current level of MK60 to MK105 to cover a larger proportion of the
recurrent costs of boarding. The Government has agreed that this fee would
be increased to MK 135 by the 1988 academic year and would be maintained
thereafter at a level sufficient to fully recover the costs of boarding.
In addition the Government will carry out by March 1987 a school mapping
survey to establish the viability of day secondary schools in selected
areas. The objective of these efforts would be to determine the
feasibility of reducing the costs of and further investments in boarding
facilities. The Government has provided assurances that after the
construction of 10 new boarding facilities by 1990/91, no new ones would be
built without prior concurrence by the Association.
36.       At the university level, currently an average of MK200 from
tuition and boarding fees is collected from each student. However, the net
payment is only MK56 after the return of a living allowance of M1K44.  The
Government has provided assurances that the net contribution of University
students would be raised to MK200 per year starting the 1988 academic year
and that periodic adjustments would be made thereafter. These resource
mobilization efforts would increase the pLportion of total recurrent
expenditure which is recovered from 4.6 percent to about 8 percent, thereby
improving the Government's capacity to carry out its investment program.
37.       On the expenditure side, the Government's plan would require a 22
percent increase in annual investment expenditures from MK25 million (about
US$12.5 million equivalent) to MK30.4 million (about US$15.2 million
equivalent). Recurrent expenditures devoted to education would be expected
to increase from 9.6 percent to 12.8 percent of the total recurrent budget
by the end of the plan period. Over the plan period, substantial increases
in the allocation of recurrent expenditure would be made for primary
education, for the MCC and for vocational and technical education.
Recurrent expenditures for formal secondary schools and for the University,
as a proportion of the overall recurrent budget for education, are expected
to decrease due in part to a reduction of the per pupil cost of education
as well as to cost recovery efforts.



- 12 -
C. Bank Group Experience and Strategy
38.       Although other donors have supported the education program (most
notably ODA and the African Development Bank) the World Bank has had the
most sustained and comprehensive involvement. The Bank has been active in
the education and training sector since 1963 as reflected in five education
projects (one of which is ongoing), in sector work, particularly the study
on Financing and Efficiency of Education, (Report No. 4894 of June 25,
1984), and through policy discussions which resulted in the preparation of
the Second Education Plan. The first three projects, which have been
completed, support expansion of and quality improvements at the primary and
secondary levels including technical education. The First Education
Project (Credit 102-MAI, approved in 1967) provided US$6.3 million
equivalent to expand secondary education to meet manpower needs, to
introduce technical subjects in secondary schools, and to establish a new
primary teacher training college in Lilongwe. A Project Performance Audit
(Report No. 2914) was completed in March 1980. The Second Education
Project (Credit 590-MAI, approved in 1975) provided US$11.6 million
equivalent to establish a new primary teacher training college in Mzuzu, to
expand secondary education, principally through provision of additional
places for girls, and to establish 23 model primary schools which would
also serve as rural adult centers. A project completion report dated
September 21, 1982, has been distributed and there is no audit report.
39.       The Third Education Project (Credit 910-MAI and EEC Credit
12-MAl, approved in 1979 and totalling US$22.0 million), which has also
been completed, broadened the Bank Group's involveuent in educational
development. It was designed to improve (a) primary education, through
self-help construction of 1,000 primary school classrooms and provision of
textbooks to primary school children; (b) educational management, through
establishment of the Malawi Institute of Education (MIE), provision of
vehicles for the school inspectorate, and support for various educational
studies and evaluation; and (c) training of essential middle level
manpower, through expansion of the MCC and of the Chancellor College
secondary teacher training program, as well a through a modest expansion of
agricultural, commercial, and general secondary education. Management and
organization problems, particularly at the local level, slowed
implementation of the self-help primary school construction program. As a
result, the closing date was extended by 18 months to December 31, 1985, at
which time the project was closed. The completion report has not yet been
prepared.
40.       Evaluations of the first two projects indicate, inter alia,
success in establishing two well managed primary teacher training
colleges. At the secondary level, implementation of the First and Second
Projects has resulted in enrollment increases as planned. Introduction of
technical subjects into these schools has not been fully satisfactory
because of high recurrent costs, lack of specialized teachers, and lack of
student interest. Because of these problems, the MOEC is no longer
introducing technical subjects into general secondary schools and is
concentrating on expanding specialized technical schools. The experience
of the Second Education Project has shown that it is difficult to utilize
primary schools as adult learning centers, and these schools would best be
used solely for primary education. In addition, it was found that a
management and supervision system for local building teams was needed



- 13 -
before communities could effectively replicate model schools through
self-help construction.
41.       The Fourth Education Project (Credit 1123-MAI, approved March
1981, for US$41.0 million equivalent) provides for 3,960 new secondary
student places and for further expansion of Chancellor College's secondary
teacher training program. The project also includes pre-investment studies
for a new Institute of Public Administration (IPA), as well as funds to
prepare a National Education Plan. The closing date was extended to
December 31, 1986, to enable the Government to complete the IPA
pre-investment studies. The Fifth Education Project (Credit 1330-MAI,
approved March B, 1983, for an amount of SDR 30.9 million) is designed to
improve primary education, expand the output of secondary level educational
institutions, increase the number of trained accountants and accounting
technicians and to strengthen the management of education and auditing
systems. Apart from a slight delay in providing counterpart funds, overall
implementation of the project has been satisfactory and is expected to be
completed by the original Closing Date of September 30, 1988. The Bank is
also financing a Human Resource Development Study which will assess the
medium term skilled manpower needs for the country.
42.       The Bank's overall assistance strategy includes financing
portions of the Second Ten Year Plan (para. 26). A basic element of our
strategy is to help design educational policies so that (a) a balance is
achieved in terms of the physical and human resources allocated to all
levels of the education system; and (b) measures are implemented to improve
the efficiency of sectoral management. The Second Ten Year Plan is
regarded as an integral part of a wider national policy to eradicate
poverty, promote national identity and integration, and to improve
socio-economic development and employment.
PART IV - THE CREDIT
43.       The proposed Credit was identified in 1981 and prepared by the
Government with assistance from IDA. The policy reform package and the
Government's ten year Education Sector Plan draw heavily on studies carried
out under previous IDA credits including the 1979 Manpower Survey which
projects labor force needs and supply to 1990; an evaluation of the
examination system (1984); a study on the financing and efficiency of
education (1984); an evaluation of the Malawi Correspondence College
(1986); and a Study of the Structure and Management of the Education
Service (1986). Appraisal took place in May/June 1986 and negotiations
were held in Washington on February 9-13, 1987. The Government delegation
was led by Mr. A. Upindi, Principal Secretary, Department of Economic
Planning and Development. A Staff Appraisal Report is being circulated
separately. A supplementary data sheet is provided in Annex III.
Credit Objectives
44.     The purpose of the proposed IDA Credit is to support the Government
in financing the last three years of the first phase of the ten-year
education investment program and to support the Government's implementation
of the Policy Program as described in its Letter of Education Policies.
The Credit's objectives are, therefore to (a) increase access to primary
and secondary education through the expansion of facilities, increased



- 14 -
allocation of budgetary resources, and implementation of efficiency
measures to improve the flow of students entering and completing these
levels of education; (b) improve the quality of primary and secondary
education through the upgrading of teachers and teaching materins and the
provision of adequate textbooks; and (c) improve sector management through
strengthening the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC), with technical
assistance and training and through implementation of measures to improve
education quality and efficiency. The total investment requirement of the
Ten Year Education Plan (1985-1995) is MK349.2 million in current prices
(US$174.6 milllon). The total cost of the 1987-1990 three year time slice
is MK146 million (US$73.0 million) of which the proposed Sector Credit of
MK54 million (US$27 million) would fund the outstanding financing gap.  The
credit would finance investment priorities previously agreed between IDA
and the Government of Malawi. The Government has demonstrated adequate
capability to appraise individual investments and to carry them out,
including adherence to Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that any changes in the education
investment program for 1985-1990 would be made with IDA's concurrence.
Credit Description and Detailed Features
(a) Primary Education Component
45.       Classrooms.  The credit would provide for the furnishing and
equipping of 1500 new or replacement classrooms, and of 750 teachers'
houses. Classrooms would be located in accordance with criteria agreed
with Bank staff, to ensure, inter alia that classrooms would be apportioned
on the basis of existing and projected enrollments and classroom shortages,
and that priority would be given to (a) splitting classes with enrollments
in excess of 100, and (b) replacing badly dilapidated classrooms.
Teachers' houses, on the basis of one for every two classrooms, are an
essential element in the recruitment and retention of qualified teachers,
especially in rural areas.
46.       Teaching/Learning Materials.  Basic student textbooks in English
and Chichewa were prov'ded by the EEC and IDA under the Third IDA Education
Project.  The proposed credit would help finance a further MK4 million
worth of textbooks which would provide a. least one set of texts for every
two students. A textbook replacement fund would be established with a
MK1 parental contribution and a 1K2 Government contribution per pupil to
replace books at the end of their three year life expectancy.
47.       Teacher Upgrading.  In 1984/85 there were almost 2,450
underqualified and undertrained primary school teachers in the system, and
a further 1,800 trained teachers whose education had not gone beyond
primary level. Two kinds of upgrading courses are needed to enable these
teachers to perform satisfactorily: (a) courses in pedagogy for the
untrained, and (b) a course leading to JC/HCE qualifications for those with
only primary school education. The proposed Credit would finance
in-service training to meet these needs. The courses would be organized
and conducted through the Malawi Institute of Education (MIB) whose
experience in this field makes it a natural vehicle for teacher upgrading.
48.       Primary School Supervision.  School supervision by District
Inspectors and District Education Officers is often thwarted by the



15
inaccessibility of remote rural schools and the lack of transport. As a
result, many schools have not been visited in three or more years. The
proposed credit would finance the provision of one bicycle and one
motorcycle for each of the 28 school Districts.
(b) Secondary Education Component
49.       The proposed Credit would finance improved access to formal
secondary education and better quality and management of correspondence
education.
50.       Access to Formal Secondary Education.  The unacceptably low
transition rate from primary to secondary education would be improved by
the construction, furnishing and equipping of 2 new secondary boarding and
1 secondary day school (1,440 student places) and the conversion of three
existing MCC centers to double use as MCC centers and as night secondary
schools. With regard to the formal secondary schools, they would be sited
so as to attract day students, and boarding at these schools would be
strictly limited. The two MCC centers to be converted would be located in
populous urban zones making boarding facilities unnecessary.
51.       Improved Correspondence Education.  The poor examination results
of MCC students are symptomatic of inadequate financial support,
understaffing at both managerial and operational levels, and inappropriate
facilities allocated to the program both at headquarters and in the field.
A thorough review of the role, organization and functionlng of the MCC has
been carried out. The system's management would be strengthened through
financing a transitional management arrangement with the support of an
experienced distance education institution. This partner institution would
assist in MCC management over a three year period, improve the quality of
Its services, and provide skill training to the staff.
(c) Efficiency of Education Management Component
52.        Improving the Testing Process.  The Credit would support merger
of the two exlsting examination systems by providing the consolidated
system with adequate office and computing facilities. This would involve
(a) minor capital improvement in the Zomba office of the MCE/TB to
accommodate the transfer of professional staff from Lilongwe; (b) computing
and printing equipment to accommodate an increased work load; and (c)
technical assistance in the form of a consultant to develop better test
assessment tools.
53.       Strengthening Education Management.  In the past 20 years, some
strengthening of the Hinistry of Education and Culture's (MOEC) capacity to
manage and develop the education system has taken place, but the pace of
management development has lagged behind the demands made on it by the
rapidly developing education system. In order to implement the
recommendations of the Study of Structure and Management of Education, the
proposed credit would finance Ca) a series of short-term consultancies
(2 staff years) to assist in carrying out locally organized workshops aimed
at improving the planning process; (b) 6 staff years of fellowships on
education research and management and (c) operational costs of running a
series of workshops for about 1,000 Ministry officials.



- 16 -
54.       Strengthening the Research and Evaluation Capacity of MOIC's
Planning Section. To provide a built-in mechanism for evaluating progress,
the existing monitoring and evaluation committee within the Planning
Section has been reconstituted with agreed terms of reference. Also, the
research and evaluation unit within the Planning Section is to be
strengthened by (a) four staff years of technical assistance for the
services of a full time researcher and a part time researcher and (b) six
staff years of the services of local Halawian economists - one at a senior
level. The Credit would fund three studies to be carried out within the
strengthened research and evaluation unit as follows: (a) an assessment of
the extent to which inputs financed by the Credit are delivered and
effectively utilized in schools and classrooms; (b) a study of the cost
effectiveness of various instructional methods; and (c) an assessment of
the Income effects of post primary schoollng (tracer study).
55.       Strengthening the Project Implementation Unit.  This unit is
solely responsible for implementing all education projects in Malawi. It
has 4 sections -- accountancy, procurement, civil works and administration
-- and is adequately staffed with 20 national and 3 expatriate
professionals, and 8 support personnel. Its national staff includes the
project manager and assistant manager, as well as accounting and
procurement staff and an assistant level architect. The expatriate staff
comprises two architects provided by DANIDA and one quantity surveyor
financed under IDA'a Fifth Education Project (Credit 1330-MAI). All
contracts for expatriate staff are due to expire within the next year.
DANIDA would provide an additional 6 staff years for architectural
consultants over the period 1987-1988, to strengthen the PIU and assist the
Government in its efforts to gradually replace expatriate by national
staff. In addition, to meet these objectives, the project provides about
10 staff years of training, of which 4 staff years are to be held overseas
and the rest at the Polytechnic. Under IDA's Education V Project, the 2
Malawian staff who are receiving overseas architectural training are
expected to graduate in 1988 and 1990 respectively. A third Nalawian
national will be trained overseas as a quantity surveyor. Operational
expenditures for project administration, excluding local salaries, would
also be financed by the proposed credit.
56.       School Maintenance Unit.  The Credit would support the merger
within KOEC of the two school maintenance units currently located in the
Ministry of Works and Supplies and in the MOEC. The new Unit would consist
of three regional maintenance tears, each staffed with a plumber, an
electrician, a carpenter, a painter and a mason. The Credit would finance,
for each team, simple hand tools and construction materials. The Unit
would produce a maintenance manual for use by headmasters.
(d) University Loan Scheme
57.       A university student loan scheme would be established and
financed under the Credit in conjunction wlth increased cost recovery
efforts at the university level (para. 36) and to ensure that no qualified
student is denied access to a university education because of inadequate
financial resources. By no later than December 1, 1987, and as a condition
of disbursement of funds from the student loan scheme component, the
Government would submit to IDA a satisfactory plan detailing the loan
administration procedures and conditions. The plan would also indicate
interest rates, repayment periods and all other terms and conditions.



- 17 -
Program Costs and Financing
58.       The total estimated cost of the proposed investment program is
estimated at US$34 million equivalent of which US$19.9 million or 59
percent would be foreign costs. Details of the investment are provided in
the Credit Summary. The proposed Credit would finance 90 percent of the
investment costs net of taxes, including 100 percent of foreign exchange
costs and 75 percent of local costs. The Government would provide the
remaining US$4.4 million of which about US$1.0 million is for taxes and
duties. Physical contingencies of 10 percent were added to the costs of
civil works. Price contingencies for foreign costs are 3.0 percent in
1987, 1 percent in 1988, 1 percent in 1989 and 1 percent in 1990. Price
contingencies for local costs are 10 percent in 1987 declining to 8 percent
in 1988, and 6 percent in 1989 and 1990. The cost estimates include a
total of 29 staff years of technical assistance of which ODA will finance
17 staff years. It also includes 34 staff years of fellowships of which
ODA will finance 32. The Government would employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of service would
be satisfactory to the Association. They would be selected in accordance
with Bank Group "Guidelines for Use of Consultants." The Overseas
Development Administration's contribution includes US$2.3 million
equivalent for technical assistance and fellowships and US$0.3 million
equivalent for equipment for MCC.
Iinlementation
59.       Implementation of the Policy Program is to be carried out by the
Planning Section of the MOEC through the newly reconstituted Committee on
Monitoring and Evaluation. This Committee which is to be chaired by the
Principal Secretary, MOEC, will be responsible for ensuring that the policy
objectives of the program are met. The Committee is to provide support to
the Planning Section of MOEC by coordinating various sections of HOEC and
monitoring and reporting on progress made in implementing various
policies. In addition, the Committee would supervise the MOEC's budget
requests (investment and recurrent budgets) for consistency with programmed
expenditure targets and with attainment of policy objectives. The
Committee would prepare reports for annual progress reviews to be carried
out jointly with IDA and would be the focus of discussions for the joint
Government/IDA mid-term review to be held no later than June 30, 1989, to
review progress made in implementing the Policy Program. Impler ntation of
the civil works component and procurement of furniture, equipment and
technical assistance pould be the responsibility of the Project
Implementation Unit (PI) which has performed satisfactorily in past IDA
projects.
60.       Status of Preparation.  Standardized designs for all investments
in schools have been prepared. The Government has selected and contracted
consultant architects for the Examination Center and MCC offices.
Preliminary furniture and equipment lists for all project institutions have
been reviewed by Bank staff and were found to be satisfactory. Tendering
for civil works is expected to begin in 1987, soon after the credit is



- 18 -
declared effective. Suitable school sites have been selected following
established criteria and adequate land, which is presently undeveloped, has
been provided free of charge to the project. Sites for the MCC offices and
for expansion of the Examination Center have also been identified.
Procurement
61.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below.
Proposed Procurement Procedures
(US$ millions)
Force
Category                 ICB       LCB      Other    Account   TOTAL
1. Civil Works
Total    10.3       9.3                 0.5     20.1
IDA     9.0       7.5                 0.4     16.9
2. Furniture, Equipment
Books and Vehicles
Total     4.1                2.2                 6.3
IDA     3.6                1.7                 5.3
ODA                        0.3                 0.3
3. Professional Services
Total                        0.6                 0.6
IDA                        0.5                 0.5
4. Technical Assistance
Total                        2.8                 2.8
IDA                        1.0                 1.0
ODA                        1.8                 1.8
5. Fellowships and
Training
Total                        2.1                 2.1
IDA                        1.4                 1.4
ODA                        0.5                 0.5
6. University Student
Loan Scheme       I
Total                        1.0                 1.0
IDA                         1.0                 1.0
7. Project Administration
Total                        1.1                 1.1
IDA                         .9                  .9
TOTALS           Total    14.4        9.3      9.8         .5      34.0
IDA    12.6       7.5      6.5       0.4       27.0
ODA                        2.6                  2.6



- 19 -
62.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the Bank Group guidelines for procurement. These contracts
would total about US$15.0 million equivalent including contingencies.
Exempted from ICB would be contracts for construction of primary school
classrooms, estimated to cost less than US$5,000 equivalent each and
totalling US$9.7 million. Such contracts would be awarded following
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank Group. Minor works estimated at US$0.5 million
would be carried out under force account or by small contractors. Goods
and equipment estimated to cost less than US$10,000 equivalent, but not
exceeding an aggregate amount of US$25,000 equivalent, would be procured by
local shopping. Architectural sketch designs, draft tender documents and
master lists of furniture and equipment indicating proposed grouping and
cost estimates would be reviewed by the Bank. Items would be grouped to
the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk
procurement. Prior review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank Group
would not be required for civil works contracts costing less than
US$300,000 equivalent each and for furniture and equipment contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each. Bank missions would review
and approve sample bidding documents to ensure proper handling. When ICB
is used, domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15 percent or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. pr!ce of competing foreign
suppliers. Qualified domestic civil works contracts would be allowed a
preference of 7.5 percent of the bid prices of coupeting foreign
contractors. Consultants for civil works would be selected in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Locally established consulting firms who have
in the past undertaken similar assignments and have a good working
relationshLp with the Government, are expected to be selected. All
contractors financed under the project would be recruited under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank Group.
Disbursements and Audits
63.       Proceeds from the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for civil works and professional services; (b) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory and
80 percent of local expenditures for locally procured furniture, equipment,
vehicles and their transportation to school sites; (c) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for technical
assistance, fellowships, and training; (d) 60 percent of operational
expenditures for project administration; and (e) 100 percent of
expenditures for the establishment of the university loan scheme.
64.       Disbursements for operational expenditures of the PIU, and for
local training, would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs)
documentation which would not be submitted for review but would be retained
by the Government for inspection during Bank supervision missions. All
other disbursements would be fully documented. To ensure a smooth flow and
availability of investment funds, a Special Account operated by the PIU
would be established in the Reserve Bank of Malawi with an initial deposit
of US$2.0 million, approximately equivalent to three months of estimated
expenditure during the first two years of implementation.



- 20 -
65.       The PIU would establish and maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures incurred under the project. The records would be maintained
adequately to reflect, in accordance wtth appropriate accounting
procedures, its operation and financial condition. The Government would
provide annual audits satisfactory to the Bank Group for all expenditures
financed under the project, with particular emphasis on operational
expenditures (project administration), expenses for local transportation of
furniture and equipment to school sites, and local training. Audit reports
would be provided to IDA within six months of the end of the Government's
fiscal year. Since the Auditor General's office is understaffed, audit
services to be furnished by private firms acceptable to IDA would be
financed under the proposed credit.
Economic Viability of Proposed Investments
66.       The economic efficiency of the proposed investment package can be
assessed by comparing its unit economic costs with the unit costs of the
most recently undertaken IDA financed project In Malawi. The status quo
costs are labelled 'Base" in the following table.
Unit Economic Costs by Level of Education
(Kwacha per Student)
Economic Cost
Proposed
Base       Investments
Primary                                     415 a/          369
Formal Secondary                          2,080           1,702
Malawi Correspondence College             1,013           1,013
Primary Teacher Training                  4,165           4,106
University of Malawi                      9,036           8,702
8/ From an AFDB ProJect.
At the primary and secondary levels the reduction in unit economic cost is
due primarily to a significant lowering of unit capital costs. At the
primary level a modified self help construction program would be used
whereby comunities would provide only bricks.  Other building materials
would be bulk purchased and small experienced local contractors would carry
out the actual construction. This would result in a 17 percent reduction
in unit capital costs. At the formal secondary level unit economic costs
would result from architectural design changes and lower student teacher
ratios which reduce unit recurrent costs by 10 percent and unit capital.
costs by 32 percent. Unit capital costs at the secondary level
nevertheless remain very high at 61 percent of total unit economic costs
primarily because of the cost of boarding and of staff housing. This level
compares to 6 percent for Tanzania and to 4 percent for Colombia. Building
only day schools, rather than boarding schools would lower the level of
unit capital costs to total unit economic costs to 23 percent.
Nonetheless, these cost differentials between levels of schooling can be
justified if they are offset by differences in benefits as measured by wage
differentials. As indicated in para. 24, social rates of return to all
levels of education justify the proposed package of investments.



- 21 -
Benefits and Risks
67.       Implementation of the Policy Program Is expected to yield
significant beneflts to the country in terms of increased access to quality
educatlonal opportunities consistent with the country's long term
development needs. First, the credit would result in increased enrollments
at all levels. Specifically, it would benefit 75,000 primary school
students and 750 primary school teachers (5 percent of the teaching body)
by the provision of classrooms and housing; and all primary school students
(about 900,000) by ensuring an adequate supply of basic textbooks. Nearly
4,000 students (up to 5,760 in double shift) would be accommodated by the
construction of five secondary schools and the conversion of two MCC
centers Into dual purpose secondary schools. Second, educational quality
would be improved by measures to reduce class sizes, increase teacher
supply and quality, revise curricula and examinations, and improve the
supply of teaching/learning materials. Third, the management of the sector
would be improved through introduction of cost effective procedures such as
double shifting and fuller utilization of existing facilities and teaching
resources, fuller cost recovery, and school Inspection and supervision.
68.       The first risk Is that reforms of this magnitude require strong
and efficient sector management. The credit would, therefore, strengthen
administration, planning, research, development and evaluation within MOEC
and the PIU, and strengthen and restructure the MCC. In addition, there
would be annual high level reviews of progress made in undertaking the
proposed reform program. A second set of risks relates to financial and
human resource constraints which might slow down implementation of the
proposed Investment plan. There is a risk that the Government may have
difficulty increasing the share of the budget devoted to education.
However, this risk would be minimized by increased user charges for
boarding and lodging at all educational levels. Providing for increased
numbers of qualified teachers necessary to improve access to education, to
improve student flows and to reduce pupil:teacher ratios is being addressed
by the project through provision of a significant amount of training for
new teachers and for teacher upgrading.
PAFT V - RfXDeINEIDATION
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 5, 1987



- 22 -
ANNEX I
fw VW*O      . 13170   (10)                                                                                      Page   1  of  3
Ddt*WM      at mIKNE  Pam)
19           1lD   1mm1   tu        3      1 11  1M          198    191 1      Il  19t   110
_e iiutIotu 6. If              101.*6        4.7 I -32      3.0    36      a3      2.9        3.1    L3     3.5   317    3.9
lwbm                          M1.1        -6.    4.2      1.5    6 I     5.6    0.9        L30       1      .3    3.5    36
Indotry                     t14            1.6   -3.8    0.3   L3        0.6    4.1                LS L3   .      3.9    4.1
at.                          1W.2          4.0  -L        1.3   L3       LG    42           11     3.4    3.6    3.6    4.1
aomq,tSan                       79.2        -L      4.3   -1.1    3.7    2.G    0.4         -..1    3.4       .4    1.0    3.6
Om"       Int                   172.       -337   -)LI   24.4   10.6  -3&.    13.2           11.6    1.3    7.6    6.1    SAY
3.1        at an               J3.0         25L.   -19.6  -4.9    4.0    DJ.6    2.2          35     3.1    L9    4.0    4.1
b    .ms of 0                  XL3          4.7   -26.    -50       1.5   -1.2    3.6         3.0    3.1    3.2    3.3    3A
am" uutSa.1 .auag               6.           4.4    3.7 12.0   14.3   22.9   47              39.0    36    IM  D      G.6    L
.
Or wILtar (Iva - l3)                        131L0  1333   152L   170.0  191.7  2.3          214.0  24J  254.   269.0  33.0
Bmdw.r.ta(33Mraadu                          1I.ZI   1.12   0.93   0.8U   0.71   05wi         n.1%    0.S6  0.U5   0.43   L-U
soft or  ? aSt    lt  d        (2)                      *A'rg  Aml IhftU  (2)
(at arwt pIM)  /                                    (at         1973 pun)
1973   1911 1953   31                                167H0 198043   1863-90
Own dtlc r:uaW                              1000   300.0  51.    0                                   3.6      1.5       3.5
A    1gA       A f       a   a             37.5   37.2   37.7   37.0                               3.l      3.        3.3
UW~dr         ax a t ord at               I  1.6   39.2    1.6   19.3                              6.7      4.0       3.7
Othrw          flo ac m                   ALI   43.    4.5   4                                     3.9      1.        3.6W
Ox..t1a                                    65.6   66.    1.3   83.:                                 1.0      1.9       2.1
05u Im_tl                                   31.6   M3    15.7   17.6 863                                      .1        6.2
_mm GM                                      23.    26.6   2.4   24.6                                 L7       1.0       3.
Iumxt an                                    13.9   41.6 :I.0   29.3                                  3.1      5.4       3.2
us.   tmiuivIq.                             12.6   ISA    6k4   12.4                                 -       14.2       1.6
3U71   1975f7r   1981A12   1906    3913116   19t/85   I1SM
mm=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a    gr.urnm                                         13.5       16.5      70.0      19.7      19.9      20.9      22.6
ancm wq..lbm                                          6.3       13.4     7A.5c/    21.0       20L.      21.6      2:.6
!wphu (+) r dkt (-)                                  -3.1        1.1      -4.5      1.3       -0.2      .0.7      -1.0
apIttL  ,dkum                                         32.4      1L9       14.6      11.2      10.0        12       9.6
R91i tflnusw                                         11.2       56         6.7       9.4       9.0       3.3       6.S
197543)    M9R0-S    1i10340
0t'ath raw (X)                             S3.           .72      3.L
0W pM mplta peth ran (Z)                    1.9         0.63      0.M
D-x  --zti- guAh rMn  (2)                   6.1          .2       L2i
bCIX                                        6.L         8.00      4.3
IaUu1 _udzu    =                            0.1        4.13       0.13
liqait el.    rty                          -0.         -3.50      0.91
fq.uIF,  -M P. am  uI  at .a91r am
VWemMd yUM   at   MK    iP
.fk*      M -hUBty wxP.i1ta
V.mtag ard Satham MfrIm bgl.
S.p   9, 1986
UAOl-')



u*daa   .7b(tI017           )                           - 23o-)ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
ma  ~    ~     { -t 1ma9 Ibi
btnt  ,mit  _t. CX)
(euac1979 prIce)
otum                             ktnt
Juliat                 at crate irs                                                             uw                  w
133           160   1911   1912   1963      194   I8S      19t    my .             9    19
udka .mt                      20.5         229  -16.5  -6b        6.3   3.3    2.7        3.5    3.7    3.9    4.0    4.2
Frqy                        231.9         17.3  -19.5  -6.1    4.7   34.3    3.5        3.3    L      34    3.6    3.7
__mins.                      17.6        111.0    9.6 b16       0.3   14.1    5.0       6.0   6.5   to       7.3    L.O
I_l_ale 1aqrt                 291.2        --L1  -23.9  -50       2.5  -12.0   13.6       3.0      1    3.2    3.3    3.4
d                             0.1        3L50   57.2  -563  -11-4  -307   ILb           3.0   3.1    3.2    3.3    3.4
Nlvla                       42.7        -6     -0  -20.6    1.7  -1.6    3.3           5.1   5.7    5.9      5     5.0
mmllsyat[ qNW                66.7         11.9  -51.3  -169   -3.6   4.8   I3.0         7.2    7.3    7.5    .0    7.6
tRa                         161.7        -24.5   -6.4   4.6    2.5  -19.6   17.0        0.1   0.6    0.5    0.3    0.7
-D (toG-Io)
l pim1d.                                    1.1   39.0   9.1  -1.5   31.4  -22.0         10.6    1.7    4.2    4.1    4.3
tfl prim 1.1.                              21.8   16.9   7.6   23.6   29.2   15.5        11.5   8.6    3.2    0.6    4.5
dT    of Ml. id..                         -17.0   19.0    1.3  -U.S    4.1  -32.5        -0.  4.4    0. 9    3.5  -42
0qu.tlan cE FbzdSlmm U. (X)                           Ammr. An.! D=m   (S)
(eata         gri)                              (St an)   1979 prim)
1975    D 199    5 153   1590                     19f75-    190-65    13L540
s2.O  100.0  I3O.O  10.0                              9.       L8       3.9
RImy                                      9L.6  89.7    0.3   83.0 .9L3                                 3.2       3.5
I      _lum                                7.4   10.3   9.7   ILO                             17.5      0.9       7.0
_in                                        100.0  101.9  I0O.O  1O0.0                           -1.4    -5.2       3.2
bod                                       4.9    7.3    7.1    7.1                            -0.9    -4.5        3.2
rFcism                                    9.    13.9   15.2  3L.                               83      -LI        5.6
1hhmry ad upltt                          2LS   34.4   23.7  23.2                               1.0   -12.6        7.5
Otam                                      61.5   44.4   54.0   46.0                           -4.5    -3.0        0.6
5a  of Tbis '4th              Sum  of Tt&  tath                 Sass of Ital  ith
1tuim      0,mnie (2)         ftvep1n  auitla C9)             Cauti         OU Dp=z    J j
1970    1915    190           1970    191S    1980               1970     1975     1563
aloft.                65.63    75Z    69.0          11.3    103      7.0               23,4    13.5       240
Pdimq                    -      -                       -             --                           -
Tpn                      537    64.5   75.0             24.2    14.5     6.0               19.0    20.7       19.0
athwdwal%-dW  wmnlm ~ ~     ~        ~       ~       ~        Ftscmu &elm   its  i
Er.e  ad Scem Aft  PAO
SqePtsr 9. 1966
a-itl-f



-24 -
ke s         *i.s cair7.0 n ( sw_                                                                                    Page  3  of  3
or VW owta 1 1|170 ' (UNfi
-W -          .L1. mD tilD      L  D3Mt
ama -        w ma  manm
ACd
~~tn,,,__
1I9    m      t      ilAD   19m 1    S1 19    m       Im    a      191 9   1990
bft. at _   uS a        .a3d 32.3 129J.3  2.3  253.1  340L.   724                      32.3  3.6  3.3  332  47.9
of dud: Hldumt   fah.                   23.2  23.2  242.6  03   313.   2561          293.4  311.6  33.3  365.2  36.9
7vDma  GE gaaS .5 miiam -1.7 -464.0  412.0 -*32.0  36.3   3.1                          419.7  462  kV4   665  37.1
et ditdUi Ibgdk.Cm Lfe                -319.2  25L2 -15.3 -131.1  162.0  1769          2D12  ZI.3  24L3  2ILE  272.1
tene                                     16.4   21.1  3L0    IL7    9.6   5.7           6.2    6.0    Li    63    6.0
OuTQ  ma bmlum                          -57.2 -1336 -124.5 -144.2  -15.9 -100.         -.   43.   -.0  -37.0  -72
PrivatSn    ra           -    - Im=*--                          -      -      -          -      -      -      -      -
Offttd  pt  od                            3      A1   4   363   2L5   24.4   23.1       3.1   332   3L3   36    362
xZ lao  (we)                              227.2  t7.5   46.1   47   68.3   21              8L  *.7   722    6.3   3.6
EfdScl                                  97.5   10.7   60L6   5S6    94.4   62L9       13L    10.0   92LB   L60   61.2
dthe.                                   29.7   16.6  -14.5  -14.1  -3.6  -37.8       -361  -23.3  -2L6  -11.7  -2.6
Wdr in                                   113.2   68.0  -4.2   31.0   7.9  -36          -13.2  -11.3  -11.5  -134   -7.4
Omu In  m          - - i     )           -3I.3  -18.3  463   3.3   602   3.4           -223  -2.0  -47.0  -103  -12
n 1amtiomf                                73.0      S   2.6    ML    3.5 3     LI7      63.2   9.2  100Z  110.  1242
itt famian  i   us                         -      -      -     -       -     -         -56.   -24.6   122   43.9   59.1
ta    rmsee.flUhmm_t1e                     1.4    1.2    W7    0.4    L0    1.3          1.     L3    2.7    L        .9
CEE    WMq    AID WE
Ulan D bnw*e                             210.3  173.6  111  I.5 337    9.4              191.3  0.S  16.   3.   131.3
oficial Clxu                              50.1  46.4   3L3   29.5  24.4  2L1            301   33.2  3L3   3.1   362
-    o!  _ .  .. .                         50.O  461-  43.3   54.4   37.0    L0   -- 14LI6  111.9  1l03  -U1.0  91.4.           -
Ol,C                                    1.7   IL6    7.9    7.3    6.0    S.0         10.1   10..03.    IL    20.0
swa:                          ~~-     -      -      -      -      -          _      _      -      -      -
a                                       15.1   21.0  27.1   30.5  17.0   34.3         76.5    00    0.0  3L0   60
otlat                                   27.2   13.   10.3   16.6   4.0   17           S.4   51.9   23l    3L9   104
1h,.Otr.Iau11  lam                        320.2  81.1   305   £7.6    3.3  I.3         3L64   23.    2LI   17   2L3
1fleda ID  ot l                         23.2    3.4    .2    6.7   9.2    7.4          62    6.4    7A    4.2.   6.3
ll                                       7.6   267   21.0    1.5   0.2    LS           7.2   11.0   10.0  1L30   10
ottrl zet la                             6.5    3.0    I7   L0   1.    3.5            L2      LO    L3    L0    4.0
tp                                      57.9  41.8    7.6    7.4    4.2    09          l.0-   L0      .0   0.0    0.0
kbt  atatiadg ad llmbel                643.7  480.   710.5  72L6  73L4  782          84L   89L7  956.7 IOO6.8 101
offiual                               416.7  43.7  461.3  513.4  551.6  637.4      733.8  81.3  8J7.9  99.7  100.6
Prime                                227.0  243.8  229.3  215.2   86.6  146U.       1127   89.4    LI   57.1    4.5
lidahad debe                             171.2  2L.8  138.L  22.6  1.4  96             310.8  321    31.2  3M.7  353.
lklt Scei
teal mnf_ew ialXn 15L6  112.7  101.7.  766  117  114.4                               121.4  11M    112        S  1IL3
loena  24                               63.0  61.8   4L5   44.1  44.5   46.0           .5   4.9    7    47.3   46.
DC Dt        ad plrdwtm                  8.6   15.9  21.9  IL3   29.6   233           32.1  31.7  :331    3L2   3L1
MDn  m2rc                               3.1   35.2   MA0   3LB8  342    W5            37.9    36   31.0  2h9   5.0
/MLqElCaM0  11 Zu fCZ)                     5.8   6.7    .2   6.1    3.0   1.2            1.3   1.4    2.0      0     2.0
CEfidat
Pri
hArqe ibaty at uw  sau (paw)              2M.4   2.8   2.6  19.3   41.6   46.1          41.    43.0   41.0   39.0 37.0
Offs
St Wd  f lcra   I1
nmawcy ecnuo   of det  vta eag
Huritm de wtdn 5                               3s .4
adrl zamdi. tObl 10 yonu                       43.4
Jesuit e     A at doe Cadhg
Igmut dA  withn  tiret ya                       4.8
13  rcis_ Nw dargi.q Od 9                                                             X 136
3t   jb  RV   d                                                     5      9, 198



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALANI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1986)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                   Undis-
Credit No.  Year  Borrower    Purpose              Bank      IDA    bursed
6 loans and 20 credits have been fully disbursed  74.96   238.54
Cr. 857-MAI  79  Malaei  NRDP 1                              22.00    0.05
Cr. 992-MAl  80           M NRDP II                          13.80    3.46
Cr.1123-HAI  81    '     Education IV                        41.00   10.78
Cr.1183-MAI  82    -    NRDP III                              7.30    3.07
Cr.1272-HAI  82          Lil. Water Supply Eng.               4.00    0.98
Cr.1330-MAI  83          Education V                         34.00   28.66
Cr.1343-MAI  83    -    NRDP IV                              10.60    8.52
Cr.1351-MAI  83          H Health                             6.80    4.50
Cr.1352-MAI  83    -     Sallholder Fert.                     5.00    0.02
Cr.1423-MAI  84    "    Highway V                            26.90a/  3.95 a/
Ln.2363-MAI  84          ' Highway V                18.00            15.50
Cr.1428-MAI  84    n     Tech. Assist. II                     1.50    0.85
Ln.2486-MAI  85    "    Wood Industries             6.40              4.56
Cr.1528-MAI  85          Urban Housing                       15.00   17.95
Cr.1549-HAL  85    "     Natl. Agri. Res.                    23.80   27.74
Cr.1644-NAI  86 b/ "      SAL III                            30.00   11.10
Cr.1626-HAI  86    "    Agri. Ext. & Planning                11.60   13.64
Ln.2646-MAI  86    "      Industrial & Agri. Cr.    7.80              7.80
Ln.2670-WAI  86 c/        Second Wood Energy       16.70             16.70
TOTAL                                       123.86   491.84  179.83
of which has been repaid                    6.74     6.77
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA              117.12   485.07
Amount sold           .30
of which repaid    .30
TOTAL undisbursed                            44.56   123.27  179.83
aI  Includes Special Fund Credit.
b/  In addition, a US$50.0 million equivalent credit was provided from the
Special African Facility.
c/  In addition, on November 20, 1986, a credit of US$20.0 million was
approved for the Second Water Supply Project.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Investment Fiscal                     Type of
Number     Year   Obligor             Business        Loan    Equity   Total
--(US$ Million)---
326-MAI    76,82  David Whitehead    Textiles        10.8        -     10.8
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-KAI    77,81  Dwangwa             Sugar          11.3        -     11.3
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI    79     Investment and      Development       -        0.6    0.6
Development        Finance
Bank of Malawi     Company
502-HAl    80,84  Malawi              Tourism         2.1        -      2.1
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI    81,82  Ethanol Coupany    Manufactur-
Limited of         ing Alcohol
Malawi             from
Molasses       2.2        0.3    2.5
832-MAI    86     Leasing & Finance  Money & Capi-
Corp. of Malawi    tal Market      0.6        1.0    0.6
Total gross commitments                              27.0        0.9   27.9
Less cancellations, terminations,                    10.4        -     10.4
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                    16.6        0.9   17.5
Total Undisbursed                                     0.6        0.1    0.6
[annex-2(NT-0.5)]



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
EDUCATION SECTOR CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
I.  Tiuetable of Key Events
Prepared by:                      Government with Assistance from IDA
Initial Discussion:               May 1985
First Bank Group Mission:         May 1985
Appraisal Mission Departure:      May 1986
Negotiations:                     February 1987
Planned Date of Effectiveness:   July 1987
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
1II. Special Conditions of the Credit
A. Condition of Credit Effectiveness
(1) Legislation would be passed to permit the merger of the MEC
examination and MCE/TB into a single examination body (para. 34).
B. Implementation of Policy Program
The Government would maintain policies consistent with those
described in its Letter of Educational Policies and would by no
later than June 30, 1989, review jointly with IDA progress made in
project implementation and in implementing the policy action
program (para. 59). Progress in achieving the following targets
would be given special attention:
(1) By December 1987, the Government would prepare a plan for
implementation of the once only repetition policy in Standard 8.
By the 1988 academic year, the new policy would begin to be phased
in, and by the 1989 academic year it would be fully implemented
(para. 28).
(2) By March 1988, the revision of the content and format of PSLE
would be completed and the new style examination introduced at the
end of the 1988 school year (para. 28).
(3) Feasibility studies to convert up to 13 urban secondary schools to
double shift institutions would be completed by the beginning of
the school year 1988/89, and the system introduced at the
beginning of the school year 1989/90 (para. 29).
(4) The Government would augment the MOEC's recurrent expenditure
budget each year by an amount equivalent to MK2 per enrolled
primary school student for the textbook replacement fund
(para. 33).



ANNEX III
- 28 -                    Page 2 of 2
(5) By the 1988 academic year the Government would increase to MK 135
the fee to secondary boarding secool students and would thereafter
maintain the fee at a level adequate to fully recover the costs of
boarding (para. 35).
(6) Starting the 1988 academic year, the university fee net of all
allowances would be MK200 and periodic adjustments would be made
thereafter (para. 36).
C. Condition of Disbursement
(1) By no later than December 1, 1987, and as a condition of
disbursement of the component, the Borrower shall prepare a
comprehensive plan, acceptable to the Association for the
establishment and administration of a loan scheme for university
students including eligibility criteria, maturity of loans, rates
of interest to be charged and other terms and conditions (pars.
57).
D. Other
(1) After the construction of 10 new boarding facilities by 1990/91,
no new ones would be built (pars. 35).
(2) Any changes in the education investment program for 1985-1990
would be made only in agreement with IDA (para. 44).



- 29 -                      ANNEX IV
-                 ~~~~~~~Page I ot I
MALAWI EDUCATION INVESTMENT PROGRAMME
SATEMENT OF EDUCATIONAL POLiCY
The government of Malawi regards education as
a key factor in its economic development, as a means of
promoting national consciousness and cohesion and as a
means of raising the standard of living of the
population. It is the government's policy to improve
the quality of education, the efficiency of education
management, and access to the improved syotem in order
to insure that the national objectives are met.
1. Quality of Education
For sometime now,  there bas been a generel
concern by teachers and parents  in Halawi over the
quality and relevance of education in view of the high
repetition  and  drop  out  rates  in  primary  schools
especially   in  rural   areas   and   the  substantial
differences  in  achievement  at  the  primary  schools
leaving examination between urban and rural schools.
These outcomes have highlighted the deficiencies of the
education system especially at the primary level:
namely, the need to make the curriculum more relevant
and to better relate the primary school curriculum to
the primary school leaving examinations; the need to
develop an examination system especially at the primary
level which would better measure achievement at that
level; insufficiently qualified teachers resulting in
unmanageable   pupil   teacher   ratios,   shortage   of
education resources in primary schools in particular;
shortage of adequate facilities resulting in oversized
classes  in  primary  schools;  inadequate  number  of
inspectors  to  provide  adequate  supervision,   and
insufficient supply of textbooks.
The government intends to take the following
policy and institutional development measures:
Curriculum: At the primary school level, the
revision  of  the  curriculum  to  empbasize  the  basic
skills of reading, comprehension and numeracy has
began. The underlying principles are:-
(i)   subject  integration  under  the  broad
headings of basic skills, history and
civics,   agriculture   and  moral   and
'spiritual values and manual skills.
(i,)  continuous    assessment    of    student
achievement  by  teachers.       In  this
regard, the criteria for use by teachers
in assessing student performance In each
claeB at the end of the year will be
drawn up.



-30-                         ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
At  the  secondary  school  level,  the  present
secondary school curriculum offers up to 21 subjects
for study. The number taken at both the Junior and
Senior level national examinations varies considerably.
The contents of, in particular mathematics, science and
agriculture syllabuses require updating.   The review
and revision of the cu5riculum will be undertaken.
Subject panels for this purpose have been set up and
within the next year these panels will be strengthened
to include members from the Department of Education at
the University College. We have recently revised the
curriculum for vocational and technical subjects at the
vocational  and  technical  colleges  and  introduced
commercial subjects into technical colleges.
Teachers:  At the primary level, the government
is  in  the  process  of  expanding  existing  teacher
training colleges and constructing additional colleges.
By 1988, enrolment will exceed over 3000 students in
our colleges and our output will double from the
current 900 to 1800.  It is also intended to increase
our teacbing force by recruiting those teachers who
retired below the age of 50 since the retirement age in
the country has now been extended to 60.   All these
measures will contribute to the lowering of the pupil
teacher ratio.   Our objective remains to attain the
pupil teacher ratio of 50:1 by year 1995. Our present
ratio is 60:1.   In order to improve the quality of
teacher training, a review of the teacher training
syllabuses is being carried out with the intention of
making them more relevant to the primary scbool
syllabuses,   emphasizing  methodology  and  practical
teaching. Upgrading programme for untrained teachers
is being initiated and a one year upgrading course will
commence  in 1987.   Other quality improvements which
have been initiated are: short courses for primary
school headmasters, inspectors and district education
officers as well as refresher courses for existing
primary teachers.
At the secondary school level, a review of
number oT subjects and subject combination required of
secondary teachers is being undertaken to ensure
indepth knowledge of the subjects. To make up for the
shortfall in local teacher availability in key subjects
such as Maths, Science and English; Peace Corps, VSUs,
World   University,   Canada   Overseas   and   Belgian
Volunteers are being used to assist in filling the gap
until   such   times   as  our  output   can  increase.
Enrolments in the Department of.Education at Chancellor
College  in these  subjects  are being increased.   To
ensure adequate supply of teachers at the secondary
level, the ratio of diploma to graduate teachers is



-31-                        ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
being maintained at 2:1.  At the Malawi Correspondence
Collee  Centres,  the  quality  of  teachers  will  be
improved through training of primary school teachers as
well as through inservice training of existing teachers
at the Malawi Institute of Education.   With re ard to
vocational and technical education, commercial teachers
have undergone. training;. -and teachers for technical
colleges  are  being. t.rained  through  ODA  Eellowship
programme. The intention is to attain an average pupil:
teacber ratio of 20:1 (range 12:1 to 40:1) and to
ensure  that  the workload  of  technical  teachers  are
comparable with that of secondary school teachers.
Class Size:   In a number of primary schools,
enrolment,  especially  in. the  lower  classes,  has
exceeded  100.   On  the other hand,  in many  schools
especially in rural areas, class size in the upper
grade  is  below  the  norm of  50.   The  government's
strategy Is to gradually reduce the class size in
overcrowded schools to 50 and through multigrade
teaching  to  increase  class  size. in  under  enrolled
schools.    At  the secondary  level,  the government's
intention  is to achieve  an average  student teacher
ratio of 25:1.
Edu.cational !laterials - The government's policy
is to aim towards providing adequate instructional
materials to all primary school students.  At present,
there are not enough textbooks to reach our target
ratio of 1 book for 2 students and many children lack
writing  materials   at  the  primary   level.         The
contribution per child by parents is not sufficient to
meet the replacement cost of textbooks. To ensure that
each school is adequately provided with instructional
materials  and  text  books,  parental  contribution  of
K1.00 will be reflected in a Treasury Fund to be
established  for  textbook  replacement  and  will  be
matched by the Government!s contribution of K2.0U per
enrolled pupil. This contribution of the Government
will come into effect from 1988/89 financial year and
will  be  reflected. as  a  sub-item  in  the  approved
estimiates of the expenditure of the Ministry's Revenue
Account.      In  addition,  the  delivery  of  other
instructional materials to primary schools will be
stepped  up.    At  the  secondary  school,  it  is  the
government's intention to -ensure that most Malawi
Correspondence College Centres are equiped with radio
receivers  and provided with  instructional materials.
Consequently, Mal.awi Correspondence College fees will
be increased.



-32 -                       ANNME IV
Page 4 of 7
2. Efficienicy of Educational Management
Financial Resource Management:   At present the
proportion ot total government budget devoted to
education was 9.6% in 1984/85. This admittedly is low
by standards in the region. Ilowever, in nominal terms,
the    expenditure   on    education   has    increased
substantially  in recent years.   The gross enrolment
ratios at primary and secondary have also increased
substantially. The long term development needs of the
country and the qualitative improvements of the systems
envisaged   in  the  Education  Plan  have  important
implications   on   the   budgetary   requirements   for
education.   The sector needs  to mobilize additional
resources and, at the same time, the planned expansion
of education must be consistent with the forecasted
growth of the fiscal resources of the government.  To
meet the planned targets, it is expected that the
budget share of education expenditure (net of revenues
generated within the sector) would grow from 9.4
percent to 12.8 percent by the end of the Plan period
and this would be sufficient to finance the major
components of the Plan.  At the same time, the fiscal
resources of the government would be augmented by
private resources through very modest increases in user
charges.    At  the  secondary  there would  be  a move
towards full cost recovery of boarding charges.  As a
first step, the boarding charges at government boarding
schools bave been brought in line with similar charges
elsewbere.    At  the  University,  the  Idea  of  cost
recovery is acceptable in principle. As a first step,
we have from 1984/85 academic year, introduced fee
payment  of  K200  per  student.         This  level  of
contribution will be subject to further review from
time to time.
in addition, to these fiscal changes, it is the
government's intention that available resources are
efficiently utilized.  The efficiency of the education
system will be improved as required when professional
staff are suitably trained to meet the increased demand
and  challenges of  education  in Malawi.   Therefore,
implementation of a staff development plan is a
priority. The other actions to be taken include better
deployment of the inspectorate; improvement of the
planning process, reorganisation of the examinations
systems   and   the   restructuring   of   the   Malawi
Correspondence College, developing most cost effective
school construction design and standards, establishing
a continuous monitoring and evaluation system to assess
progress in improving the quality of education.



-33-                        ANNEX rV
Page 5 of 7
Staff Development Programme - The government
intends to develop a stat± development programme on a
multi year basis. .Key professional and administrative
personnel in the Ministry would be selected for
upgrading through training programmes ranging from
short  term courses  to degree programmes.    In this
respect, the Department of Personnel Management and
Training is expected to play a key role and priority
will be given to strengthening the staff of the
Ministry of Education and Culture and upgrading their
professional competence.
Examinations - The government has decided to
merge the two examination systems - the Ministry
Examination - J.C.E. Teacher training examination and
P.S.L.E.  -  with  the  M.C.E.  examination  of  the
M.C.E.T.B.   The restructured examination system will
make it possible for all examinations to be conducted
in a scientific manner and for schools to receive
feedback on student achievement which can be used for
improving the quality of education at the school level.
The merger is expected to take place by mid 1987. The
Government intends to embark on extensive staff
training in test development skills.  The restructured
National Examination Board will have a research and
evaluation unit and it is hoped that this development
will have an impact on the quality of education in the
country.
Malawi  Correspondence College  is an important
part of the government's plan to expand access at the
secondary  school  level.    It  is  the  government's
intention to strengthen the College's capacity to.
deliver quality education to enrollees at the.centres.
Consequently, the government plans to strengthen its
staffing and resource requirements during the plan
period.   The college has presented  a plan  for  its
reorganisation    which    is   now    under    serious
consideration.
Management of Education - The government is
funding a study of management of education which should
be completed by mid 1987.  This study should indicate
areas of deficiencies  in education management.   The
government intends to implement the recommendations of
this study witbin reason.   Pending  this study,  the
Ministry with assistance from U.N.D.P. has organised a
workshop on the planning process which should also
identify areas of weakness in planning. The government
is strengthening the planning division of the Ministry
of Education by creation of more posts and tbrough
technical assistance.
-f 



34 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
Inspection    -    The    inspectorate's    key
responsibilities  are  first  to  provide  advice  and
assistance for the professional development of teachers
on the job; and secondly, to conduct Formal inspection
of schools. It is recognised that in order to do this
work properly, inspectors should be freed from routine
administrative function and should spend 70 percent of
their time on their inspection duties, 10 percent on
inservice activities and 20 percent on curriculum
review.     A  comprehensive  scheme  of  service  Eor
inspectors has been drawn up.
Monitoring  and  Evaluation  - At  present,  tihe
sectoral  Planning  division  has  responsibility  for
monitoring    the    quality    of    education.    This
responsibility is carried out by a small research
section within the Planning division.   The phiysical
programme implementation responsibility Is withi the
project  implementation unit within the division.   In
order to effectively perform the function of monicoring
and evaluation, we are setting up a committee to assist
the research  unit  in  its  functions.   The committee
which will be chaired by the Principal Secretary will
be made up of representatives drawn from all subsectors
of the Ministry and include representatives of the
various institutions under the Ministry as well as the
Project Implementation Unit.
With regards to monitoring and evaluation of
policy changes, institutional development, and quality
improvements, the research unit and tlhe committee will
establish procedures and indicators to assess progress
in the provision of education inputs, and improvements.
in student's achievement, retention and test scores.
This assessment will provide a basis for the joint
Malawi Government and World Bank's annual project
implementation reviews.  Studies will also be carried
out with a view to determining the optimal combinations
of educational inputs to reach the most efficient
outcomes in the various socio-economic context of the
country and on external efficiency of the education
system.
3. Access to Better Education
Altliough education has expanded rapidly, there
is severe shortage of school facilities to cope with
increased demand for education thiroughout the country
and  increases  in  school  age  population.    In many
primary schools, the average classroom pupil ratio is
over  100.   The situation  is somewhat better at the
secondary level because of the current low transition
rate  which  is  dictated  by  available  number  of
classrooms   and   teacihers   ancl  by   our   manpower
requirements. A primary school mapping survey has been
carried out and a similar exercise in respect of
secondary schools is proposed.



- 3s -                  ANNEX IV
35 -               ~~~~~Page 7 of 7
The actions the government intends to take are
as follows:
(a)   Equitable Assess to Quality Education
The   school    mapping    programme    has
identified areas with inadequate primary
school facilities and the statistical
returns for the current year (1986) will
identify the schools with severe shortage
of instructional materials and textbooks.
During the Plan period, the national
averages in school facilities, textbooks
and instructional materials will be raised
gradually and equitably throughout the
country.   At the secondary level,  it is
the ultimate goal to provide each district
with a full secondary school.
(b)   Universal Primary Education - The ultimate
aim -of the government is to enrol all
children of the age group 6-13 in primary
school.    ilowever,  this  target  is  not
expected to be reached before the next
century.     At   present,  however  gross
enrolment ratio in standard 1 is about
96 percent.
(c)   Expanded Access to Secondary Education -
It is the government intention to expand
access to secondary school beyond the
current 5 percent gross enrolment ratio.
In addition to the construction of new
secondary schools, there is a possibility.
of introducing in urban day secondary
schools a shift system  (2 shifts).   If
resources permit, more day schools would
be   built   in  other   areas   with   the
communities    providing    the    boarding
facilities if they so wish.
Staff IIousing - An important constraint to
lowering ithFestudent teacher ratio in primary schools
and secondary schools -especially rural schools is lack
of staff houses.  At the current stage of development
in Malawi, suitable houses for rent are not readily
available  as a result  institutional  housing must be
provided  to attract  qualified  teachers.   It  is the
government's intention to provide staff houses to rural
teachers and to charge adequate rent for such houses.
Action Plan - An action programme covering first
five years of the Educational Plan period is attached.



- 36-                                  ANNEX V
Phge 1 of 9
MALAW I
Plmn  of  Action  for Palicv  and  Institutional
Development in the EducjtLion Sector
ObJectives           Status and/or Action Taken           Action to be Completed During
by December 1986                     the Period 1987-1991
1. Qumlity Improvement
1.01 To improve curricula   Revised syllabuses in English and   Dreft syllabuses in Chichewa and
and teaching methods   arithmetic and the preparation       sclence will be completed end of
to provide more        of teachers' guides for these         1987.  In addition, a revision
relevant education     subjects hbuc been completed.        of the primary school curricula
aid enhance learning   Revision of other syllabuses         to emphasize the basic skills will
efficiency             ongoing.                             be undertaken begiTming 19BB
telendar year. Policy decision
on the possible reduction of
the number of subjects to be
taught by a more Integrated
approach will be undertaken shortly.
The present secondsry school         The established curriculum subject
curriculum is overloaded with        panels hould be enlarged to lnclude
21 subjects, sore In subjects        MCC and the Ukiversity and should
with very limited demand.            (a) determine by beginning of 1987
The number should be reduced.        the range or subject to be offered
A revision of math, scSence          in secondary schools; and (b) revise
and agriculture syllabuses           es necessary the curricula for
Is long overdue. Curriculu,          the core subjects by the end or
subject panels have been             1955.
set up.
1.02 To upgrade the         The quality of student Intake        Provide inservice training courses
the quality of         into Primary Teacher Training        for up to 2,000 'ntrained teachers
teachers               colleges and the quality of          (45%) by 1990. f'irst year intake
teaching staff have improved         of untrained teprhers by 1987
considerably in recent years.        school year.  Ctraplete draft
Primary Teacher Training             syllabuses and supervision guide-
syllabuses have been revised         lines by first quarter or 1957.
in 7 principal subjects; the
revision of the remaining
subject syllabuses will be
completed by end of 1986.
The training needs or
unqualified teachers have
been identified. Draft
syllabuses and guidelines
for supervision are under
preparation.



- 37 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 9
Objectives            Status and/or Action Taken          Action to be Completed During
by December 1986                     the Period 1987-1991
1.33    Lower the pupil       Three new primary teacher            Complete construction and equipment
teacher ratio.        training colleges (PUtC)            of new Prlmary Teacher Training
In primary           are under construction (out-         Colleges and expansion or existing
schools In            put e00 p.m.) and the existing      colleges by 1987/88.  Introduce
all districts         Primary Teacher Training            on a limited basis shift system
and nationally        Colleges are being expanded         by 1958.  Program to be evaluated
(additional output 200).            by 1991.  Develop a system for
Increased enrollment/output         better deployment of teachers
at PTTCs and the lntroduction       by 1980 and Institute a system
of a modified shirt system          of yearly review of class sizes
in some primary schools have        and pupil teacher ratios.  Move
served to reduce the pupil          towards a ratio  of 55:1 by 1991.
teacher ratio from 66:1 In
1983/84 to 60:1 In 1984*85.
However, especially in urban
areas, classes In excess
of 100 are still common.
Government plans to extend
the shift system, recruit
retired teachers and
rationalize teacher deployment.
1.0C     To improve the        The agreed output from the          The Government will provide the
quulity ard           university or new secondary         university with a projection
quantity of           teachers has failed to              of Its teacher requirements by
Lrained              materialize (98 In 1984/85           subject for the next 5 years
teachers at           instead of 130) because             by mid 1987.  The university
the secondary        emphasis has been placed             should Increase enrollment at
level.               on inservice training.  The          the Department of Education In
situation exacerbates the           line with these requirements.
shortfall in secondary              The program should be subject
school teachers.  Shortfalls        to yearly review through the
In supply of teachers In maths,    current tripartite review process.
science and English will need       In the short term, the Government
to be met by ongoing program        should seek to fill existing
or expatriate recruitment.          vacancies in math, English, and
At present, Malawi Correspondence  science through volunteers.
Centers are mainly staffed
by primary trained teachers         By end of 1989, the Government
who are unqualiFied for this        will replace 50% of tutors In
role.  They are largely untrained  Malawi Correspondence Centers
to operate as tutors supporting    with suitably qualiFied and
a system of correspondence          trained teachers and Initiate
education and the centers           a special program to train tutors
act as formal secondary schools.   for Malawi tesp-oM#ndence Centers
in their tutorial role.



- 3B -                             ANNEX V
Page 3 of 9
Objectives                    Status and/or Actlon Taken           ActlonoeietedDri
by December 19B6                    the Period 1987-1991
1.05   To provide surficlent         Basic textbooks were supplied        The textbook replacement rund
textbooks and                 to all primery schools In 1982.    should be supplemented by
instructlonal materials       Student rees (I Kwacha each)         governwmert contribution or
to pupils In primnry          earmarked Tor book replacement       2 Kwacha per child each year
schools.                      are lnsufficIent and a growing       starting from 1988.  This
lack of textbooks has resulted.    would permit replacement of
Other tees for writing materials   books on a 3 year cycle.
and teacher guides and equipment   At least a minimal supply
are lnsufficient for the set        of basic school statiacary
purpose.  Policy decisions           should be provided by parents
to improve the provislon or         to their prlmary school
Instructional materials and         child Irrespective of fees.
textbooks are urgently needed.      Supply of textbooks should
Fees are currently placed in        be subject to a year review.
a non-interest bearing Treasury
Account.
1.06   To provide surFlclent        In 1983/84, there was a shortfall   A review of Furniture
Furniture (desks and         of 334,000 (851) of class             standard will  be under-
chairs) to primary  '        furniture.  The furniture being       taken by September 1987,
schools.                     provided Is overly sophisticated    In light of resource
and costly.  A workshop on           constraint and needs.
school furniture is being            Alternative furniture
sponsored by LUESCO and UNICEF.       standards will  be
considered.
1.07   Reduce the nufber of         Many schools enroll over 100          Class size of over 100 will
overcrowded class-           students in the lower classes.        be progressively reduced
rooms for efficient                                                through provision of new
class management.                                                  Facilities through self
help projects. Overcrowded
classrooms In each district
will be identified by local
education authorities and
will work through District
Development Committees tu
provide new racilities.
The ultimate aim will be
to have a class size or
55:1 by year 1991. Class-
room student ratio will be
carefully monitored.
1.08   To improve lnternal          Two percent of all enrollment         Prepare a plan for lmolemen-
efficiency of                In standard 1 are under age and       tation of the once only
primary schools.             repeaters make up 16X of              repetition in Standard 8
total enrollment.  Incidence          by December 1987.  Begin
of multiple repetition is high        phasing in the once only
In Standard 8.  The Goverrnent       repetitlon policy In
has lnitiated a new policy to         Standard a in 1988 school
improve Internal efficiency           year and implement the full
at primary level                      policy in 1989 school year.



39 _                                     ANNEX V
Page 4 of 9
Oblectives                    Status and/or Action Taken      Action to be Completed Durlng
by December 1986               the Period 1987-1991
Effective from October 1986:
(a) Admisslon to standard 1
has been limited to
flve year olds and over.
(b) Repetitlon In all classes
except standard 8 will
be In exceptional
cireumstances and
limited to 5X of the
class. Guidelines on
teacher assessment
and student evaluation
has been prepared and
issued by December 1986.
1.09 To improve the                 The Primary School Leaving        A review or the Primary
quallty of Primary             Examination is (a) mainly         School Leaving Examination
School Leaving                 a rote memory test,               will  be undertaken with
Examinatlon                    encouraging repetition; and       a view to (a) making it
(b) expensive, requiring         a test of cognitive skills,
manual scoring.                   (b) introducing multiple
chlce questions (with a
section for written skills)
which can be computerized,
sc) establishing a research
section which would provide
feedback on student achievement
to schools. the revision
or the content and format of the
exams' will be dompleted by March
1985. The new style
examination w i  l commen;e
at the end of 1988 school.
year.
1.10 To improve the                 The quality of education          By March 1987, the Government
quality of                     being provided by MCC is          will have a report provided
education given                poor. Students do not             by an experienced distance
by MCC.                        receive the printed               educatlon institution
materials, very few               detailing resources required
receive the radio                 for MCC over the plan period,
programs and study               giving recommendations on
centers operate as if            an external organizational
they were secondary              structure and a plan to use
schools.  Results at JC          technical assistance to ifprove
are poor and at MCE very         management and achieve better
poor indeed.  The                quality education.
reasons for this are both
internal and external to         By 1989, determine a suitable
MCC and include: inadequate       organizational structure for
staffing; an overcrowded          MCC which will provide strong
and unsuitable headquarters       management, clear goals ano
premises; resources based         accountability.



ANNEX V
-40                                Page 5 of 9
Objectives         Status and/or Action Taken             Action to be Completed Wurlng
byj Deck-..Lr 1986                     the Period 1987-1991
on new enrollments; no clear           Allocate increased resource to MOC
goals and targets; no training         based on numbers of active students
and supervision given to               and concentrate initially on
teacher/supervisors and an             lncreasing quality for existing
internal organization                  numoers before increasing total
structure unsuited to Its              numbers of active students.
needs.
Provided expanded facilities for
headquarters and provide facilities
for 2 regional offices In Lilongwe
and Mztuzu.
2. Access to Improved
Education
2.01 Expand access         At present gross enrollment            While the ultimate alm of the
to quality            ratio at the primary school is         Government is to move  towards
primary               about 605. There are severe            universal primary education, given
education             shortages oF classrooms and            the resource constraint, admission
many classrooms are                    to prlmary school will be on open
substandard.                           access.  Parents and cosmunities
will be encouraged to construct
through self-help better physical
facilities to augment the planned
increases of about 1,700 classrooms
to be constructed with Governmernt
runds by year 1991. New classrooms
will be located in areas of greatest
need and in accordance with the
school mapping survey.
2.02 Expand access        Formal secondary schools provide-      Ten new secondary schools are plamed
to secondary         places for only 4.9X of the            (4,800 new student places) conversion
education            relevant school age population,        of 2 existing MCCs into secondary
8% of standard 8 enrollees or          schools will enable them to double
11.55 of successful candidates        capacity as formal secondary by day
in the Primary School Leaving          and night.secondary school by night.
Examination.  Additional places
in the l4lawi Correspondence           Feasibility studies to convert up
Centers (enrollment 14,000)            to 13 urban secondary schools to
give an overall transition             double shift institutions with one
rate of 9% .                           day and one boarding shift should
be completed by begiming of tie
1988 school year.



-41-                              ANNEX V
Page 6 of 9
Objectives            Status and/or Action Taken                Action to be Completed During
by December 1986                        the Period 1987-1991
?.03 Expand access to         Since the Junior Certificate             Shirt system to be Introduced
Senior Secondary       - Examnation prescribes only English       by begirming of 1989 in urban
Schools.                as a required subject together            schools. Government should by
with any 5 subjects and since            1990 expand the limited nufser
admission to Form 3 Is on merit,         or MCCs now able to offer NCM
MNC students with soft optional          courses so that successful
subjects are at an advantage             candidates rrom the centers can
compared with enrollees in               have alternative avenue other
formal secondary schools.  The           than forMal secondary school
result is the exclusion of               system for pursuing MEM courses.
satisFactory Form 2 students
from continuing on to Form 3.
Additionally the MMC student
admitted into Form 3 with no
training in physical science has
difficulty coping with such subjects
in Form 3 and is unprepared for
the MCE Exmmlnation.
2.04 Expanded               Enrollment in the S government           A review of admission proceduire
enrollment at          technical and vocational colleges        for technical colleges will
vocational            continues to stagnate with boarding       be comvleted by end of 1967 and
and technical         acommodations for 1,058 students.         appropriate long and short term
colleges.             The 1984/85 enrollment represents         courses developed to utilize
a use factor of 47l, although the        existing capacity.
ikpact ofthe present expansion programme
may have hindered enrollment. The
situation stems in part from enrollment
procedures since the Ministry of
Labour controls admission In accordance
with Its perceived or estimated
industrial demand. Meanwhile the
plan Includes the expansion of
enrollment to 2,20 by construction
oF two new technical institutions.
The commercial wing or existing
technical schools have been completed
and curriculum developed. Now that
the commercial subjects curriculum
has been developed, enrollment
procedUres have been worked out and
that classes have begun with
the 1956 sdcool session.



_ 42 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 9
Objectives          Status and/or Action Taken             Action to be Completed During
-  by December 1986                   the Period 1987-1991
3. Efficiency or Education
Management
3.01 Implement a           At present, no comprehensive starf   Develop a comprehensive five year
comprehensive         development plan exist for the         staff development plan and discuss
staFf develop-        sector.  Inservice training ls         this with Department oF Personnel
ment program          on an adhoc basis.  There is no        Management and Traininq by end
to improve            staff training plan for personnel,    of 1987.  The plan would  7orm
the quality           Regional Education Officers and        the basis for soliciting donor
of educational        District Education Officers most       fellowships.
development,          of who. perrorm management
management            functions.
and evaluation.
3.02 Improve and           The terms of reference for the         Preparation of an action program
strengthen            proposed consultancy study at          for implementing the recommenda-
education             the Ministry of Education has          tion and proposals emerging rrom
management            been developed. A workshop on          the consultancy study by December
systems.              management Improvement and             1987, and implementation to begin
planning has been held:               by mid of 1988.
Preparation of an action program
for improving interdepartmental
coordination and coamunication,
delegation, supervision work
programming at the headquarters
level to begin mid 1987.
3.03 Strengthen            The inspectorate at headquarters       Proposals to strengthen the
the inspectorate.     is understaffed.                       lnspectorate will be worked
out by mid 1987.
3.04 Improve and           The Ministry has prepared an           Review and agree on the new
strengthen the        expanded structure for the             structure for the planning
capacity for          planning division and submitted        division by March 1987.: Prepare a
education             to Department of Personnel             timetable for staffing the
development,          Management and Training for            new structure by mid-1987
planning,             evaluation,                            fiscal year.
research,
evaluation,
policy
formulation
and project
planning.



ANNEX V
- 43                                  Page B of 9
abluctivew        Status und/or Action ltken                   Action La be CoMpleted Durlnn
by December 1956                            the Perlod 1987-1991
3.05 nevelop monitor-      Mranitoring and evaluutlon or tle          Set fup a cwmittee an monitoring
Ing ad evaluation    qliLty and efficiency or educatlon         mid evaluation by March 198
or the quality or    ame presently perorwred on a regular        and establish procedures and
educatiorn to         bissis tby several departments             indicators to assess  rnIual
maximize tie         IclttIllswa tle InspectoraLe.              progress In the provision of
impact or                                                       educatlonal Inputs Including
educationial                                                     facilities, textbooks. qualified
Inputs or                                                       starr, educational materlals
student                                                         improvement in student achive-
achievement.                                                    ment and test scores. On this
basis, an amnual evaluation
report on the quallty o!
education In conjuction with
a statistical report on the
education sector will be
produced. Ihe Planning
Departmntt will coordinate
and mfonitor all research and
evaluation studles on the quallty
management and cost eFFiclency
or education Financed under
the credit.
3.06 RestrucLtjue           litc live natiLuwl exaininiations         Snce the merger has been agreed
the examinationi       presently involve a vast and              upon, the Coverrment should
System.                ccmiqjlcx ariay of dispersed               (a) by March 1907, pass the
Phfysical racilnties and litman           legislation giving legal status
resources.  they are extremely            to the new examinatlon body;
exienbive to adoiinister and remove       (b) agree on the structure and
From  their prescribed duties large       starring of the new examination
atriii' or teacling starr, inspectors,    body as soon as possible.
aim tl'ers  they monui2illze For
Ituit pi'rluds prinitikiij facilities at
thle MtC,  A dlecislon has beet miade
to mmirte the two examiination units
- viz Lit Mnistty thil and thl
M11 : aUl 1    t uiJo aSixl ish stattidrd
I ive i:aninlatiot.
3.07 Strengthen and          The second Education Plan envisages        the restructuring of ICC would
restructure             the expansion or MCC. The Ministry        take place by 5988.
Malawi                  of Esimcation has prepared proposals
Correspondence          for restructuring the Malawi
College (MCC)           Correspondence College.
3.08 Increase parental       ALt ptesent, altholu   parents            The Government will review
contributiorn           contribute to the cost of                 rron time to time parental
to the cost or          educatlon, there are in-                  contrlbutions at both the
education               equalities In they system as             tUiversity and secondary
currently aidtinistered.                  schools to bring them in
liy Or Lober 1906, boarding fees          line with Inflation.  rhe
butwven "day' and goverrneit              Goverrment will substantially
biarding and aided secondary              increase rees In ICC to cover
s&lnmals hIavte beect eiliallzed.         the cost of instructional
materials Primary school
pareritn. of standard  4 end
above will be expected to
provide their children- with
basic stationery wlth effect
from 199P} school year.



44           ANNEX V
Page 9 of 9
ObJectives             Status and/or Action Taken                 Action to be Completed Diring
by December 1986                            the Period 1987-1991
3.09 To improve the         (a) At present there are variations         The Plan is to equalize where
cost efficiency        among schools in student staff ratios       practical,student staff ratios
of the system.         at secondary level with aided schools       In all schools.  By 1987/88,
'having the lowest ratios of (16:1) and    the ratios will be raised on
the day schools the highest (21:1).        average to 25:1.  A system
of yearly review of class
(b) Ratios or student staff In the         size and ratios will be
vocatlonal technical schools                in place.
will be raised.
Student starF ratios at
vocational schools including
the Polytechnic Board of
Governors' courses will be
carefully monitored and
subjected to annual reviews.
These ratios will be raised
to 20:1 by year 1991.
3.10 Full utilization        Studies have revealed that (a)              The Government will review the
of existing             boarding accommodations in girls            University admission policies
capacity at             dormitories in Chancellor College           with a view to ensuring that
Chancellor              are underutilized; (b) Chancellor           for 1987/88 all accommodations
College.                College could enroll a further              will be utilized.  The target
250 students without the need              student/teacher ratios In
to increase staff; and (c) the             all departments will be
present student staff ratio is              achieved by 1989/90.  These
well below the acceptable                   ratios will be subject to
minimum of 10:1 in the                      annual reviews, preferably
sciences and 12:1 in the arts.              at the annual review
sessions.
3.11 Reduction in the         To reduce the capital and                   A secondary school mapping
proportion of            recurrent cost of secondary                 exercise  will  be Initiated
seWondary                schools, the policy or                      and completed by March 1987.
students                 providing all secondary                     This  will be used to
requiring                schools with boarding                       develop a location policy
boarding.                racilities should be reviewed.              for day schools.  Such a
policy should be ready by
December 1987.



HAP SECTION



IBRD 20068R
SL     __                  .                           M A L A W I
- QMliu6Nhjik  s                    EDUCATION SECTOR
CREDIT
N>.    Si      Miwaw     .              [3]   General and Day
Ib \   wX  7o.  l   P  Secondary Schools
Conversion MCC into Day
Secondary Schools
\ _8 (  -1500 PrImary School
)  _'   pU ngSnn  -         Classrooms
(Locatlons to be Determined)
vi.                     0 A"1"   j   >  a    National Examination Center
( e   tCQ   MCC Headquarters
.1 NO      / T  ERN'                     (    MCC Regional Centers
..e G-   Principal Roads
Ekwdwi   jOke              -      Railroads
Z. J   --   Rivers
)i   RG( °'C ,'r ON                       -     Region Boundaries
ZA M BIA                           '7        /  -.-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~International Boundaries
Z       A    M    B    I   A     '        'J                   0
} Md.Am ia_ili 0Lw       jIMAWAWII I
2..                                                                           Ia. I&MI
KILOGTETMS o
AILESO    20 io        60
sEamsf )ltf am.
MOZAMBiQJE    L                                 IC, -7 '  oA0 I
a      .I- ki.I a t m                          X M   O   Z     M   B   I Q   U   E
w a-a TM "W  a                                                               r E
ts -1\\                                                                     ghs 
f3Y EN VA                    I   fR
_.DI                                            ,, d. rn            a
All NVNZANAV,.r-w-1 WmTNtVAh
of T r-           M       O   Z  A  M   B   I  O    U   E
_   .    -                         'J  {g tf CON
'NO   K E M V A J'--
ZA A I I     N I 1;-b\.                               i8                    :*
rw    ZAM SIAtW              )                    o      ,  _le  C                                    W.
r-~ZIMBABWE~  I/
A '          FRICA j                                                 .-                  3
JANUARY 1987



