DOCUMNA       'Sl
CREDIT NUMBER 1767 MAI
Development Credit Agreement
(First Education Sector Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             7, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1767 MAI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          &, 1987, between REPUBLIC
OF MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA-
TION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
January 13, 1987, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the education sector of the Borrower's economy
(hereinafter called the Program) and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(C) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided, in support of the Program and in order
to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, to
provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and


﻿-2-
(b) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02.   Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "MOEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Culture;
(b) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit, estab-
lished within MOE;
(c) "MCC" means the Malawi Correspondence College;
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e) "MK" means Malawi kwacha, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty one million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special account in a com-
mercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 15, 1993,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. Tho commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1997, and end-
ing February 15, 2037., Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 15, 2007, shall be one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the Program and to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, educa-
tional and planning practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accor-
dance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
Special Account and the university students loan
scheme under Part C of the Project, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion;


﻿-5-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(1) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for Lhe fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's    representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section, and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures 8nd internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿(a) An event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b) The Borrower shall have made changes in its education
sector investment program for the period 1985 through 1990, with-
out consultation with, and the concurrence of, the Association.
(c) The number of new boarding facilities constructed in
the period 1985 through 1990, shall have exceeded ten units.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the necessary legislative measures have
been taken for the merger of the Borrower's two national examina-
tion systems into one consolidated system.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 30049
Lilongwe 3
Malawi


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANCE                            4407 MI
Lilongwe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By         /      f
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
By    1     Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿-9
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works             11,980,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2) Equipment,                3,780,000        100% of foreign
furniture,                                expenditures,
vehicles                                  100% of local
and books                                 expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Architectural,              400,000        100% of foreign
engineering                               expenditures and
and auditing                              80% of local
consultants'                              expenditures
services
(4) Consultants'              1,660,000        100% of foreign
services and                              expenditures and
training                                  80% of local
expenditures
(5) Project                     640,000        80%
administration
(excluding
salaries)


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) University                 800,000        100% of amounts
students loan                            disbursed by the
scheme                                   Borrower to the
University of
Malawi
(7) Unallocated              2,140,000
Total      21,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) in respect of Category (6), unless the Association shall
have received satisfactory evidence on the establishment of the
university students loan scheme under Part C of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the first five-year phase of the Second Ten-Year
Education Plan (1984/5-1994/5) and restructuring its education
sector to improve the quality, equity and efficiency of the
education system and the overall management of the sector, all in
accordance with the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Primary Education:
1.   The construction, furnishing and equipping of about 1,500
classrooms and about 750 staff houses.
2.   The provision of about two million basic student textbooks.
3.   The development and implementation of in-service training
courses for primary school teachers.
4.   The improvement of primary school supervision through the
provision of bicycles and motorcycles for the supervisory
officers.
Part B:   Secondary Education:
1.   The construction, furnishing and equipping of two secondary
boarding schools, and one secondary day-school, with about 1,440
student places.
2.   The expansion and upgrading of three MCC centers to serve as
secondary day- and night-schools.
3.   The improvement of MCC's organization and operations through
the provision of management assistance.
Part C:   Education Management:
1.   The merger of the two national examination systems into one
consolidated system, and its support through the provision of


﻿- 12 -
computing and printing equipment and technical assistance, as
well as upgrading of offices.
2.   Strengthening of MOEC's capacity to manage and develop the
education system through:
(a) the provision of consultants' services and fellowships
in the fields of financial analysis, education management,
planning and evaluation, and training;
(b) the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation com-
mittee within the Planning Section of MOEC;
(C) the upgrading of the research and evaluation unit
within the Planning Section; and
(d) the strengthening of PIU, including establishment and
operation of a preventive school maintenance unit within
PIU.
3.   (a) Implementation of cost recovery measures at secondary
schools and at the University of Malawi; and
(b) Establishment of a loan scheme for university students.
Part D:   Studies
1.   A review of the delivery and utilization of school inputs
financed under the Project in schools and classrooms.
2.   A study on the cost-effectiveness of various educational
inpults and instructional methods.
3.   A tracer study on the income effects of post primary school-
ing.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 15,
1992.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding:
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Civil works, furniture, equipment and other items shall be
bulked together in bidding packages to the maximum extent prac-
ticable. Architectural sketch designs for civil works and master
lists of furniture and equipment, indicating the proposed group-
ing of such items, shall be submitted to the Association for its
review and approval, and all the items procured shall be substan-
tially in conformity with the designs, lists, specifications and
grouping for bulk procurement so approved.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Malawi
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for the construction of primary school class-
rooms under Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised


﻿-14 -
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; provided, however, that the aggregate price of contracts
so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.   Civil works, which the Association agrees cannot be grouped
due to the small size and nature of the work involved, may be
carried out by force account or small contractors under proce-
dures acceptable to the Association; provided, however, that the
aggregate cost of the works so carried out shall not exceed the
equivalent of $500,000.
3.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $25,000, may be procured under con-
tracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works, estima-
ed to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, and for furniture
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for each such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
subparagraph (d) of paragraph 2 of Apendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall be furnished to
the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants, as referred to in the
Implementation Program in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World
Bank as Executing Agency," published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Program and Project Coordination
1.   The coordination of all activities related to the execution
of the Program shall be carried out by the Committee on Moni-
toring and Evaluation, established within MOEC, with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, and chaired by the
Principal Secretary of MOEC. The Committee shall, in particular:
(a)    monitor and evaluate the progress in educational
quality, cost efficiency and access to improved education on
the basis of performance indicators acceptable to the Asso-
ciation; and
(b)  prepare and submit to the Association, not later than
March 31 and September 30 of each year, semiannual progress
reports. Such reports to form the basis for the annual pro-
gram implementation review meetings to be held between the
Borrower and the Association not later than November 30 of
each year.
2.   Within the overall policy guidance and Program supervision
by the Committee referred to above, the implementation of the
Parts of the Project relating to construction and procurement of
goods and consultants' services shall be carried out by PIU,
which the Borrower shall continue to maintain with organization,
staffing and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. To
this end, the Borrower shall, on a timely basis, provide MOEC
with adequate operational funds for use by PIU in the carrying
out of its assigned responsibilities. PIU shall, in particular:
(a) be responsible for the recruitment of consultants and
specialists under the Project, including:
(i)  a management consultancy team for MCC under Part
B.3 of the Project;
(ii) an expert to develop better test measurements
under Pert C.1 of the Project;
(iii) economic and research consultants under Parts C.2
and D of the Project; and
(iv) architectural and engineering consultants;


﻿- 17 -
(b) be responsible for ensuring the timely preparation of
the audits pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
and
(c) select, in collaboration with other agencies of the
Borrower, suitable recipients of fellowships and pre-
pare training programs under the Project.
3.   In order to carry out Part C (3) (a) of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(a) increase user charges for boarding at secondary schools
to MK 135 by 1988 and thereafter continue to fully recover
the cost of boarding at those schools; and
(b) implement a university tuition fee of MK 200 net of
living allowances, during the 1988 academic year, and make
periodic fee adjustments thereafter.
4.   In the carrying out of Part C (3) (b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall prepare, by December 1, 1987, a comprehensive
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the establishment and
administration of a loan scheme for university students,
including eligibility criteria, maturity of loans, rates of
interest to be charged and other terms and conditions.
Mid-term Review
5.   Without limitation or restriction upon the generality of the
provisions of Sections 9.01 and 9.06 of the General Conditions
(relating to exchange of views and reports), the Borrower and the
Association shall, not later than June 30, 1989, review the pro-
gress achieved in the carrying out of the Program and the Pro-
ject and action taken towards achievement of the following
targets:
(a) Primary Education:
(i) Reduction in repetition rate to 5% in all classes
except Standard 8 where repetition will be once
only.
(ii) Revision of primary school curricula in the basic
subjects.


﻿- 18 -
(iii) Provision of three basic textbooks to all students
and annual augmentation of the textbooks replace-
ment fund by an amount of MK 2.0 per enrolled
student.
(iv) Achievement of a gross enrollment ratio of 70%.
(v) Achievement of a student to       teacher/classroom
ratio of 55:1.
(b) Secondary Education:
(i) Achievement of a student to teacher ratio of 25:1.
(ii) Revision of secondary school curricula.
(iii) Completion of school mapping exercise.
(iv) Introduction   of a shift system     in  all urban
schools.
(v) Replacement of 50% of the MCC tutors with trained
teachers.
(vi) Full cost recovery of the boarding element in all
schools.
(c) Teacher Training:
Implementation of a teacher retraining program.
(d) Vocational/Technical Education
Full utilization of existing facilities by achieving a
student to staff ratio of 20:1.
(e) University Education:
(i) Achievement of a student to staff ratio of 10:1
(in Science) and 12:1 (in Arts).
(ii) Subject to periodic adjustments, charging of a
tuition fee of MK 200 net of all allowances.
(f) Level of Recurrent Expenditures
Increase in the education share of the government budget to
about 11%.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Special Account, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up tj the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible


﻿Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit, furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing   that  such  payment was   made  for   Eligible
Expendiditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account, in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the Eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿- 21 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


