Report No. PIC556
Project Name            Brazil-Sao Paulo Integrated Urban Transport (@+) 
Project (The Barra Funda-Roosevelt Link)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Transportation
Project ID                       BRPE6559
Implementing Agency              Metropolitan Transport Secretariat
Av. Paulista 402, 15 andar
Paraiso
CEP 01310-903, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil
Contact: Arnaldo S. Pereira
Tel: (011) 285-0993
Fax: (011) 284-9054
Projected BoardDate              December 1997
1.      Introduction. The Bank is considering a US$45 million
equivalent loan to the Government of the State of Sao Paulo to help
finance the first part of an integrated urban transport project in
the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR). The project would be
implemented by a project unit within the Sao Paulo State Urban
Transport Secretariat and by the Sao Paulo State Urban Train
Company (CPTM). Counterpart funds of US$45 million equivalent would
be provided by the Government of the State of Sao Paulo. The
contents of this PID are subject to change, and the components
described may not necessarily be included in the final project.
2.      Background. The Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR), with
8000 sq. km, has 16 million inhabitants spread irregularly over 39
individual municipalities which are dominated by the Sao Paulo
Municipality (SPM) with 8.5 million inhabitants. The SPMR generates
roughly 20t of the GNP and is considered the most important
economic region of the country. Each day, 30 million person trips
take place in the SPMR of which 10 million are walking trips. Forty
one percent of the motorized trips are by private automobile while
the remaining are 39t by bus (mostly private operators), 14t by
metro and 6t by train. Of the 12 million trips by public modes,
about one third use more than one vehicle, requiring some sort of
modal transfer: 78t of all metro trips, 61t of all train trips and
16t of all bus trips require one or more transfers to be completed.
This level of urban transport activity, dominated by the road-based
motorized modes has significant impacts on the SPMR's environment.
Despite an existing 250 km rail network, the lack of integration
between the metro and the suburban trains discourages more rail
trips, in favor of buses and the automobile creating heavy
congestion during peak hours thereby significantly increasing home-
to-work trip time. The urban poor are the main users of public
transport and bear the brunt of these problems: (i) shortage of
capacity at peak hours resulting in overcrowded (>10 pass/m2) often
inhuman conditions, (ii) long work journeys (2.5 hours/day) from
the metropolitan periphery to the urban centers, with often more
than two modal transfers; and (c) paying over a fifth of their
income towards fares. Lack of coordination between the 3 levels of



government responsible for urban transport, particularly between
the SSP and the SPM, has led to poor tariff and modal integration,
lack of prioritization in urban transport investments and no common
policy on pricing and subsidies. SPM's municipal bus company (CMTC)
and private operators under contract to CMTC, received until early
1993 huge subsidies (US$1.5 million/day) due to a chaotic tariff
policy which, in the past, was the result of inadequate management
and political interference. SPM has now negotiated with the private
operators, a much lower subsidy based on the number of passengers
transported rather than vehicle-kilometers, and has called for bids
for the sale to the private sector of the buses and maintenance
facilities which were still directly operated by CMTC. Finally,
SPMR needs to modernize its traffic engineering and control
technology to be able to cope with the present and growing number
of road-based vehicles.
3.      The air quality of the city is degraded by the presence of
excessive levels of carbon monoxide, ozone and particulate. During
1990, health warnings due to air pollution from CO were issued for
a total of 0 days, ozone --108 days, and particulate --54 days.
Vehicles account for 73 to 94 percent of most air pollutants in the
SPMR, except for particulate matter which are distributed as
follows: 51 percent come from industries, 31 percent from motor-
vehicles, and 18 percent from open fires. In 1990, the number of
vehicles registered in the SPMR, were 4.3 million. Vehicular air
pollution has been somewhat mitigated by the use of alcohol.
Vehicular accidents, on the other hand, have become a major source
of environmental risks. In 1990, they accounted for 64,029 injuries
and deaths (2,715 or 7.9/10,000 vehicles) in the SPM alone with a
cost conservatively estimated at US$1.5 million/day. Congestion and
overcrowding of the public transport system are a source of
environmental stress prompting trampling and fights. Although the
maximum capacity of most buses is of 36 persons seated and 40
standing,during rush hour, more than 90 passengers --and in some
cases, up to 120--are admitted. According to the SPM's Traffic
Engineering Department, congestion has been increasing at a rate of
20 percent per year; the economic cost of time and fuel lost due to
traffic congestion has been estimated at US$6.2 million per day.
4.      Project Objectives. The proposed project is the first part of
a two-part program designed with the following development
objectives: (a) to finance infrastructure and equipment which are
critical to the physical integration between the two existing rail
suburban systems (ex-CBTU and ex-FEPASA) and between them and the
Sao Paulo subway system (METRO); (b) to increase private sector
participation in the management and operations of the SPMR's rail-
based urban transport systems; and (c) to contribute for the
reduction of noise and pollution from transport sources.
Specifically, the proposed project would integrate about 250 km of
suburban main line tracks by building rail links to allow trains
from ex-CBTU's Leste lines access to ex-FEPASA's lines at the Barra
Funda intermodal station. East-West bound passengers would then be
able to transfer between the suburban rail systems of FEPASA and
CBTU, connect with the North-South Metro line at the intermediate
station of Luz, and have access to the Sao Paulo central business
-2 -



district. The proposed project will also finance the hiring of a
financial advisor to conduct the process to concession out CPTM's
operations and maintenance to the private sector. Finally, the
proposed project will include a number of actions designed to
contribute for the improvement of air quality in the SPMR
The second part of the program, which is under consideration in
parallel as a separate loan , will consist of the construction of a
9.63 km subway line (the Metro's 4th line) under a Build-Operate-
Transfer (BOT) scheme. This line will further contribute for the
physical integration of the rail-based systems in the SPMR,
increasing considerably the attractiveness of this mode due to its
geographical coverage. This second part which will be jointly
financed by the Government of Sao Paulo, the Bank, JEXIM and the
private sector (50%-) is being prepared jointly by the Bank and IFC
which has been retained as the financial advisor.
5.      Project Description.     Infrastructure and Equipment
Investment Component (Part A) : to build a rail connection between
the suburban train systems (FEPASA and CBTU). The estimated cost of
this component is US$75million and accounts for 84%- of the total
project cost;
6.      Air Quality Component (Part B) to support: an inspection and
maintenance program for vehicle emissions and noise as well as a
vehicle emissions and noise laboratory along with hardware,
software, and technical assistance to develop the capacity for air
quality modelling and emissions investigation within the
Environmental Technology Company (CETESB) and the University of Sao
Paulo (B1). The estimated cost of this component is US$4 million
and accounts for 4%- of the total project cost;
7.      Institutional and Policy Development Component (Part C) to
assist in: carrying out the concession of CPTM; establishing a
Regional Transport Coordination Commission for the SPMR, as well as
preparing an integrated transport, land use, and air quality
management strategy for the SPMR (C2);The estimated cost of this
component is US$11 million and accounts for 12 percent of the total
project cost;
8.      Benefits. Substantial quantifiable and non-quantifiable
benefits are expected from the provision of an integrated rail and
bus network including cost savings, time savings for the users,
less accidents and fatalities and employment generation through
better spatial integration of markets. In addition, there will be a
positive environmental impact through the reduction of fossil fuel
consumption, reduction of motor-vehicle related emissions, and road
congestion with a consequent improvement of air quality and noise
pollution. Finally, by encouraging greater private sector
participation in the development of aerial and ground station
space, the proposed project will be a first step towards decreasing
the investment burden on the state. At preparation, a preliminary
economic evaluation of the project shows an IERR of 120 percent for
the infrastructure and equipment component which represents 84
percent of the project, without including newly generated demand
-3 -



and the quantification of air quality and noise reduction benefits.
9.      Project Sustainability: It is expected that the introduction
of private sector operations in railways and the control of fare
evasion will reduce the subsidies paid to the railway and thereby
allow better maintenance of the system.
10.     Poverty Category: Not applicable
11.     Environmental Impact: The works included in the project are
expected to have a positive impact on the environment and the
bidding documents for works will spell out the environmental good
practices to be respected by the contractors performing the works.
Consultants have verified that there is no resettlement due to this
project and the works will be done in an existing rail right-of-
way. This project is a Category "B" project.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 29, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental
This project is expected to have very positive impacts on the
environment since it decreases the number of buses operating in
roads which are parallel to the railway link. The works will be
carried out in an existing right-of-way and as long as the
environmental good practices prescribed in the bidding documents
are respected, no negative impacts are expected. There is no
resettlement since all the work is taking place on an existing
right-of-way.



