                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 32266

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (CPL-43120 TF-25255)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45 MILLION

                                 TO THE STATE OF SÃO PAULO

            WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                            FOR THE

                  SÃO PAULO INTEGRATED URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                              (BARRA FUNDA-ROOSEVELT LINK)




                                           June 24, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 23, 2005)

                                  Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (R$)
                                         R$ 2.39 = US$ 1
                                       US$ 0,42 = 1 R$

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1     December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANTP     National Association for Public Transport (Associação Nacional de Transportes Públicos)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBTU     Brazilian Urban Train Company (Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)
CETESB   Environmental Technology Company (Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental)
CPTM     São Paulo Metropolitan Train Company (Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos)
EMTU     Metropolitan Bus Company (Empresa Metropolitana de Transporte Urbano)
EMU      Electric Multiple Units
FEPASA   São Paulo State Railways (Ferrovias Paulistas S.A.)
FPMT     FEPASA Metropolitan Train
GSP      Government of the State of São Paulo
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return
METRÔ    São Paulo Subway System / Operator
NPV      Net Present Value
OCC      Operational Control Center
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RTCC     Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SEAIN    Federal Foreign Affairs Secretariat of the Ministry of Planning (Secretaria de Assuntos
         Internacionais)
SET      State Secretariat for Transport (Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes)
SPMR     São Paulo Metropolitan Region
SSP      State of São Paulo
SMT      São Paulo Municipal Secretariat for Transport (Secretaria Municipal de Transporte)
STMSP    São Paulo Secretariat for Metropolitan Transport (Secretaria de Transportes Metropolitanos
         do Estado de São Paulo)



                                 Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                               Country Director       Vinod Thomas
                                Sector Manager        Jose Luis Irigoyen
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Jorge Rebelo

                                           BRAZIL
             SÃO PAULO INTEGRATED URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                           (BARRA FUNDA-ROOSEVELT LINK)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            43

Project ID: P006559                                                  Project Name: BR (BF-R)SP.TSP
Team Leader: Jorge M. Rebelo                                         TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 24, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BR (BF-R)SP.TSP                                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-43120; TF-25255
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (86%); Sub-national government
                            administration (14%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/21/1993                                     Effective: 07/12/1999                04/04/2000
     Appraisal: 03/03/1998                                         MTR: 03/15/2000                  03/30/2002
      Approval: 07/04/1998                                      Closing: 02/12/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE STATE OF SAO PAULO/SEC OF METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT SP;
                                           THE STATE OF SAO PAULO/CPTM
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Krishna Challa (Acting)
Team Leader at ICR:             Jorge Rebelo
ICR Primary Author:             Jorge Rebelo; Elisabeth Goller


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
This project, the first part of a two-part program , was designed with the following development objectives:
                                                                   1




(a) to finance infrastructure and equipment that were critical to the physical integration between the two
existing suburban rail systems (ex-CBTU - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos, and ex-FEPASA -
Ferrovias Paulistas S.A.), and between them and the São Paulo metro system (METRÔ);
(b) to improve the level-of-service provided by the São Paulo Metropolitan Train Company (CPTM) by
enhancing the participation of the private sector in its management and operations; and
(c) to contribute towards the reduction of noise and pollution from transport sources.

Specifically, the project envisaged the integration of about 270 km of suburban main line tracks through the
construction of rail links to allow trains from ex-CBTU's Leste lines to access ex-FEPASA's lines at the
Barra Funda intermodal station. In that way east-west bound passengers could transfer between the
suburban rail systems of ex-FEPASA and ex-CBTU, connect with the north-south metro line at the
intermediate station of Luz, and have access to the São Paulo central business district. The project also
provided financing for technical assistance to support the process of concessioning out CPTM's operations
and maintenance to the private sector. Finally, the project included a number of actions designed to
contribute to the improvement of air quality in the São Paulo Metropolitan Region (SPMR).

These objectives were clear and realistic. They reflected essential priorities of the urban transport sector in
the most populated Brazilian Metropolitan Region, such as cost recovery and efficient financial
management, institutional development and environmental concerns, and the integration and rationalization
of the public transport system in São Paulo. They were also fully consistent with the Bank's 1997 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which supported policies and investments encouraging economic growth and
social development in a context of macroeconomic stability, and put emphasis on efficient resource
allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector, appropriate targeting and delivery of support systems
to the poor, and improving the creditworthiness of the Brazilian states. Of particular importance is that
these objectives were realistically achievable with a calculated risk, given that some amount of political
agreement was required for the institutional and policy component. Moreover, there was great and early
commitment and ownership of the Government of the State of São Paulo, which indicated in several
occasions the importance they attached to an efficient metropolitan and suburban rail system. This was also
underscored by several visits of the Governor to the project site to inspect the works in progress.
Furthermore, the project objectives are consistent with the emphasis of the most-recent 2003 CAS on
equity, sustainability and competitiveness, which this project strived for through the improvement of the
well-being of the low income residents of the metropolitan region, their access to employment, health,
education and leisure facilities, and the improvement of the management of the operating agencies.
_____________________________
1The second part of the program is underway through IBRD Loan 4646-BR, São Paulo Metro - Line 4 Project. This project aims at improving the
quality and sustainability of urban transport in the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region by interconnecting the existing metro, commuter rail, and bus
networks through the construction of the Metro Line 4. The project is co-financed by the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) and is
expected to increase the attractiveness of CPTM's network because of the links between the latter and the São Paulo metro.



3.2 Revised Objective:
The broad objectives remained unchanged until loan closing and no revision took place.


3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised three components: (i) an Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component



                                                                       - 2 -

to build a rail connection between the two CPTM suburban train systems (ex-FEPASA and ex-CBTU); (ii)
an Air Quality Component to support the construction of a vehicle emissions and noise laboratory,
including the necessary hardware and software, to develop the capacity for air quality modeling and
emission investigation within the Environmental Technology Company (CETESB); and (iii) an
Institutional and Policy Development Component to assist in carrying out the concessioning of CPTM,
establishing a Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC) for the São Paulo Metropolitan
Region (SPMR), and preparing an integrated transport, land use, and air-quality management strategy for
the SPMR.

Part A - Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component
This component accounted for 90% of the total base cost and included three subcomponents.

Permanent Way Works included the construction of: (a) a track (No. 4) between Roosevelt and Barra
Funda; (b) a rail link between tracks No. 3 and No. 4 of Lines A/D (Northwest/Southeast) and the tracks J
and I from Line E (East); (c) one auxiliary track line for the long-distance passenger trains at Barra Funda,
and its linkage with track No.1 of Lines A/D at the same station; (d) a rail link between tracks No. 1 and
No. 2 of Line B (West) with track No. 1 of Lines A/D, between Barra Funda and Água Branca; and (e) a
parking/marshaling yard for the unit trains at Água Branca. It also included (f) the rehabilitation of line No.
3 and minor improvements on adjacent track lines between Roosevelt and Barra Funda. In summary, it
envisaged the construction of a total of 10.3 km of new main line tracks and 1.8 km of secondary tracks at
Água Branca yard.

Civil Works included: (a) at Luz Station, (i) the construction of two underground pedestrian passages to
ease the access to and from the existing Luz metro station and Av. Casper Libero, and to facilitate Luz
Square passengers to reach suburban trains and bus lines. It also included (ii) the construction of a new
mezzanine and the installation of 14 automatic escalators and three elevators for passengers with reduced
mobility, as well as the provision of illumination points; and (iii) the main building restoration, preserving
its original construction characteristics. (b) At Brás/Roosevelt Station, platforms and track rearrangements
and the construction of a mezzanine to interconnect with the Brás metro station, including mechanical
escalators and elevators for passengers with reduced mobility. (c) At Barra Funda Station, the installation
of elevators for passengers with reduced mobility and turnstiles rearrangement; and (d) the construction of
the Barra Funda Operational Control Center (OCC) building.

System Works included: (a) the installation of a signaling system over the track lines on the rail link
designed to: (i) extend the Eastern line from Roosevelt Terminal to Barra Funda station (the new terminal
station); (ii) provide this section with the necessary equipment to reduce the headway (including changes on
the Roosevelt/Brás-Barra Funda section, such as the modification of tracks No. 3 and No. 4 (bi-directional)
for traffic from the East line and keeping tracks No. 1 and No. 2 (bi-directional) to permit its use for traffic
from the Northwest/Southeast, the new traffic control center for the Barra Funda - Brás section, and
automatic train stopping/speed control signaling devices on the Electric Multiple Units (EMUs); (b) the
implementation of a new traffic supervision center to monitor all CPTM lines located at the Barra Funda
OCC; (c) the installation of the catenary over the track lines on the Barra Funda -Roosevelt rail link and the
Água Branca yard; (d) the illumination of the new yard at Água Branca and the relocation of some existing
lamp posts on the rail link section; and (e) the provision of automatic turnstiles for proper passenger control
and tariff integration at the stations of the Barra Funda-Tatuapé section of Line E (East).




                                                       - 3 -

Part B - Air Quality Component
This component was expected to account for 9% of the total base cost and included the civil works and
equipment for a vehicle emissions and noise laboratory, along with hardware and software to develop the
capacity for air quality modeling and emission investigation at CETESB.

Part C - Institutional and Policy Development Component
This component was expected to account for 1% of the total base cost and aimed at providing support to
assist CPTM in its concessioning program, the establishment of a RTCC, and the preparation of an
integrated transport, land use, and air-quality management strategy for the SPMR.

The project design was adequate to attain the objectives set at appraisal, with the latter being directly linked
to the activities envisaged under the different components. The implementation agency was well staffed and
had the necessary technical, administrative and financial management capacity. A number of staff members
had participated in the successful execution of the federally-financed São Paulo Metropolitan Transport
Decentralization Project (Ln. 3457-BR), of which this project was a follow-up. Lessons from this project
and a number of other urban transport projects financed by the Bank in Brazil were taken into account in
the project design, in particular as far as institutional strengthening, the pace of project implementation and
the availability of counterpart funding were concerned.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained the same throughout project implementation.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory for the following reasons: (a) the project was consistent with the
CAS, and the Government and Bank strategy for the urban transport sector; (b) most of the project
beneficiaries belong to low-income households in the suburbs of the greater SPMR; (c) there was an
extensive technical and economic evaluation of the project; (d) the project design was built upon the
successful experience of a previous project and the lessons learned under a number of urban transport
projects in Brazil; (e) the implementation agency was well skilled and had the absorptive capacity required;
(f) and the assumptions and risks regarding external factors were widely discussed and a large consensus
was reached.

This project did not undergo the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) quality assessment, but it was part of
several internal reviews to assess its technical, financial and economic feasibility and the social and
environmental impacts. The identification mission and related activities benefited from the input of high
qualified experts, such as an urban planner, a transport planner, a transport economist, a railway engineer
and the Bank's urban transport adviser. In addition, it benefited from the input of outside consultants, such
as a senior expert of the US Department of Transport (USDOT). The comprehensive technical, economic
and financial evaluation of the project was carried out by senior staff and consultants. The Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) also provided an in-depth analysis of major issues in the sector and addressed
the potential risks that were likely to occur at the time, such as (a) project cost and time overruns, (b)
delays in the formal establishment of the RTCC and its sustainability, (d) delays in the procurement
process, (d) the non-timely availability of counterpart funds, and (e) the risk that the concessioning
program would not materialize.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR assesses the São Paulo Integrated Urban Transport Project (Barra Funda-Roosevelt/Brás Link) as



                                                       - 4 -

highly satisfactory. The project objectives have been reached in a substantial manner and the strategic
importance of this project for urban mobility in the SPMR is without precedents since it allowed for the
integration, in the center of the city, of about 330 km of urban rail systems that cater for nearly 3.5 million
passengers a day. The most significant results achieved by the project are: (a) the physical integration of
the urban rail system with the São Paulo Metrô; (b) fare integration between both systems in four main
stations; (c) the renovation, functional adaptation and modernization of two historical stations in São Paulo
(Luz and Brás/Roosevelt), and some minor adaptation at the Barra Funda Station, which started the
recuperation and revitalization of the whole central area of São Paulo; (d) a substantial improvement in the
service quality provided by CPTM and the start of a number high impact social initiatives; (e) a greater
involvement of the private sector in CPTM's operational activities; (f) the preparation for a partial or full
concession of the system; (g) a reduction of fare evasion through the installation of new turnstiles; (h) and
the reduction of noise and emission pollution through an important shift of passengers from the bus to the
rail mode. It must be highlighted that all the infrastructure works were undertaken without interrupting rail
operation, and that the surrounding areas of the stations benefited from a visible improvement in urban
development. In particular, the Luz station is again, after the project, an emblematic building in the city,
which is attracting thousands of visitors to see the station renovated to its original form yet modernized for
the present needs.

Two extensions of the loan closing date by a total of 24 months and some minor delays in the full
completion of all project activities were caused by (a) initial delays between loan approval and
effectiveness of 24 months, mainly due to the lack of agreement between the federal and state authorities on
the debt renegotiation of the State, (b) changes in the basic engineering designs for the physical works, (c)
the consequent necessity to revise the implementation schedule for the project, and (d) the need to
reprogram the financial resources for the counterpart funds in 2003 due to a budget restriction imposed by
the State Government. Some additional delays depended on the need to change the location of the OCC and
the emission laboratory.

However, despite these problems, project implementation was very successful, with CPTM reaching a
major achievement by non-interrupting rail operations during the physical works, which required very
detailed planning, scheduling and operations management. Overall, the project performed extremely well
and the highly satisfactory rating is justified by the fact that in addition to the planned physical integration
between the two systems, also fare integration in four major stations was fully achieved, which has not only
led to quantitative and qualitative mobility improvements, especially for low-income residents living in the
city's suburbs, but also to a jumpstart for the recovery of an urban area, which was quite degraded, with a
general improvement of the quality of life in São Paulo. In fact, to carry out the project works, it was
necessary to destroy some streets in the surrounding areas, which were then redone with new sidewalks,
better accesses, improved illumination and an overall neater appearance. The Mauá Street, previously very
much degraded and full of street vendors, is a good example of these visible improvements that also greatly
benefited the local commerce. The revitalization and revalorization of these areas led to greater police
presence and overall safety and security improvements. The restoration of the Luz station triggered a kind
of snowball effect, with significant investments in the cultural field, including the installation of the Sala
São Paulo Theatre and the construction, with private financing, of the Institute of the Portuguese Language
(Museo da Língua Portuguesa). Together with the new underground connection from the Luz Station to
the State Art Museum (Pinacoteca), the area has now developed into a triangle for cultural attraction.

The project also stimulated a wider discussion on fare and ticket integration that has great chances to
succeed in the current political climate. Moreover, it had a substantial social impact, not only by improving
the mobility of and increasing the affordability for low income passengers from the suburbs of São Paulo,
but also through a number of initiatives, such as the low-cost breakfast in stations (Bom Lanche) and the


                                                      - 5 -

installation in the station areas or neighborhoods of State Offices to obtain or renew official documents (
Poupa Tempo).Finally, the project led to the planned enhancement of private sector participation in
CPTM's management and operations, and the concessioning process of one of CPTM's lines seems now on
a firm and sound track. Noise and pollution levels from transport sources in the SPMR have been reduced
and are expected to further decrease with the complete finalization of all project activities, especially the
emissions and noise laboratory, and further progress in fare and ticket integration in the SPMR.

Taking into account the well-advanced progress of the few activities not yet fully completed, the project can
be considered on an irreversible path towards full completion. The project is highly likely to be sustainable
(see Section 6.1) and has a NPV of US$ 7,780 million and an EIRR of 252%. For details see Annex 3.

The level of attainment of each of the specific project objectives is described in greater detail in the
subsequent paragraphs, while the project results for the key performance indicators are given in Annex 1.

Financing of the Infrastructure and Equipment for Physical Integration Between the two Existing
Rail Suburban Systems and Between them and the São Paulo Metro System (Objective A): This
objective was achieved in a highly satisfactory way, with the full physical integration between the
suburban rail system and the metro, fare integration in four major stations, and the initiation of very
promising discussions on fare and ticket integration with the municipal bus system. More details on these
three main aspects are given below.

Full physical integration. The existing suburban rail system of nearly 270 km, all operated by CPTM, and
the metro network of about 59 km are now fully integrated right in the heart of São Paulo, and carry nearly
3.5 million passengers per day (for a map of the system see Section 10). Passengers originating from the
low income neighborhoods in the East or West of the SPMR are now able to transfer between the six lines
of the suburban rail system and the three lines of the metro network. The physical integration was achieved
through the construction of the main tracks between the Roosevelt/Brás and Barra Funda Stations,
including signaling and traffic control facilities and equipment, some additional links, and the necessary
functional adaptations in the three main stations.

Fare integration. A natural evolution of the physical integration between the two systems, going beyond
the project objectives, was the fare integration in the four major stations involved in this project: Barra
Funda, Roosevelt/Brás, Itaquera and Luz. This, in addition to allowing passengers for important travel time
savings and greater regularity and reliability, provides them with the possibility to use two high-capacity
networks at an affordable price, which is extremely important because, as already mentioned, most of
CPTM's passengers originate from low-income areas in the suburbs of São Paulo. The free integration
between CPTM and the metro system, facilitated by this project, contributed to a significant alleviation in
the incidence of transport costs on the budget of low-income users. Indeed, between 2000 and 2004, the
incidence of transport costs on the income of users with one minimum salary decreased by 16.5% (from
45.6% to 29.2%), for those with two minimum salaries by 5.5%, and with three by 3.3%. Moreover, it has
to be pointed out that 65% of CPTM's ticket revenues come from the sale of the "Vale Transporte", a
ticket that by law has to be financed by the employer if the home-to-work trip exceeds 6% of an employee's
salary, which means that the incidence of the cost of the train fare on the income of poor people is even
smaller.

Fare/ticket integration with the municipal bus system. The next logical step in urban transport integration
is a common ticket and the involvement of the other modes, and this is exactly where discussions are
currently standing, with very promising prospects for the negotiations on ticket and fare integration
between the suburban rail, the metro and the municipal bus system, especially in the light of the fact that


                                                     - 6 -

since 2005 the State and the Municipal governments are held by the same party. If successful, it will
benefit about 2 million passengers every day in São Paulo.

In quantitative terms the importance and success of the integration achieved under this project is shown by
the growth in CPTM's external transfers (from 55.75 million in 2002 to 61.16 million in 2004, i.e. 9.7%)
and the considerable increase of passengers at the Luz station, fully integrated in 2004. While the overall
increase of CPTM passengers for all six lines was 3.6% in the first trimester of 2005, compared to the
previous year, the greatest increases were registered on Line D (12%) and Line A (7.6%), both with their
terminals at Luz Station. Since the end of November 2004, these lines received an average of 49,100 new
daily users from Line 1 (blue) of the São Paulo metro system. Some of these passengers previously
integrated at the Barra Funda and Brás Stations. Indeed, transfer passengers at the latter declined by
27,500, which still implies a net increase of CPTM users at Luz Station of 21,600. To provide an
additional idea of the magnitude of this change, it should be considered that the daily passengers circulating
in the Luz Station increased from 80,000 to 180,000 in the first four months of 2005, which means an
increase of 125%.

Improvements of the Level of Service Provided by the CPTM by Enhancing the Participation of the
Private Sector in its Operations and Maintenance (Objective B): During project implementation the
private sector got involved in a number of areas, notably in rolling stock and track maintenance, the
extension of CPTM's network, the provision of feeder services and the distribution of a low cost
breakfasts. Moreover, the implementation of the physical project component, improvements in CPTM's
management practices and systems and a number of social activities all additionally contributed to
important service level improvements. Thus, this objective has been substantially achieved, and is rated as
satisfactory on the basis of the following key results.

Outsourcing of rolling stock and track maintenance. During project implementation CPTM outsourced the
activities for rolling stock and track maintenance and the electric and electronic system rehabilitation and
maintenance. This led to an increase in rolling stock availability of 28%, measured as the evolution of
kilometers between failures of the fleet (MKBF). It also resulted in a 26% reduction of the commercial
track interruptions / slow orders, and a decrease of 23% in failures of the electric/electronic system and
30% of the signalizing system. Currently CPTM is managing close to 30 five-year maintenance contracts
for a total amount of about US$ 123.1 million.

Private sector involvement in the extension of CPTM's network. Another CPTM initiative that involved
the private sector was the agreement, reached in 2004 with Caixa Econômica Federal, a private bank, for
the extension of Line C to Grajaú, a very low income area. This extension will greatly improve access for
the people living in that area, and the innovative aspect of the agreement is the loan repayment not in a
conventional way, through money from the State budget, but through commercial receipts of some stations.
This initiative is not only an example of an attempt to improve the system, but also shows a new and
proactive attitude by CPTM in relation to network extension.

Integration between the suburban rail system and the private minibus operators. Very important during
project implementation was the agreement to integrate the suburban rail system with the minibus system
(ORCA - Operador Regional Coletivo Autônomo - Autonomous Regional Public Transport Operators).
Private minibus operators were contracted by CPTM to transport passengers to and from the stations
without additional cost. This allowed CPTM to gain many new users. No separate survey for ORCA
transfers alone is available, but the Metrô and ORCA transfers increased by 2.32 million in 2004,
compared to 2003. This agreement is especially significant because it constituted an innovative way to turn
the existing minibus (van) system into a partner rather than a competitor.


                                                     - 7 -

Low cost breakfast. Another initiative of the State of São Paulo/CPTM, implemented in partnership with
the private sector, is the low-cost breakfast (Bom Lanche) offered in a number of stations. The State of São
Paulo/CPTM got alarmed by the large number of people fainting in the stations due to a lack of a morning
meal because they leave their homes too early. The initiative has a high social impact and was already
copied in a number of other systems in the country.

System integration and facilities for people with reduced mobility. The infrastructure and equipment
component of the project itself considerably increased CPTM's levels of service. The foremost important
quality enhancement was achieved through the direct rail connection between the east and west region of
the SPMR, which led to a substantial decrease in transfers. The physical project works also allowed for
higher train frequencies, thus reduced waiting time, improved system security and in stations, enhanced
interchange facilities and added special facilities for people with reduced mobility. During project
implementation, CPTM also increased the number of stations with bus/rail and metro/rail integration from
25% in 1998 to 62% in 2004.

Fleet increase and new express service. Train availability was further increased by putting in service a
fleet of second-hand Spanish cars. CPTM also inaugurated a new express train service on Line E from
Itaquera to Guaianazes (Expresso Leste), deploying new trains, and providing standards similar to most
European capital train services. The new service increased the capacity on this section (already close to the
limit, especially on the parallel metro line) and attracted many new passengers. A user survey carried out
for Line E (old and new service) showed that 26% of the users are new passengers, mainly coming from the
metro (59%) and the bus system (32%). The image of the service increased considerably, with 89% of the
users affirming that their journey improved. The main advantages of this new service consist in speed,
personal safety, comfort and cleanliness. A major point of satisfaction were the new stations, rated as good
or excellent on all dimensions by more than 90% of the users. In terms of total trip cost, 39% affirmed that
it was reduced, 33% stated that it stayed the same and 28% mentioned an increase.

Enhanced management practices and systems. To be able to provide service quality at a reasonable cost,
CPTM has enhanced its management practices and systems. For instance, during project implementation
they developed a software to facilitate strategic and financial planning to improve financial management,
and computerized management and procurement functions. Moreover, important achievements of CPTM's
management in the financial area are:
· A successful cost reduction program implemented in 2003 that resulted in cost reductions of R$ 18.5
million, and the continuation of the effort in 2004, with cuts in a number of areas, starting with a switch to
a minimum inventory policy;
· An increase in non-operational revenues through the involvement of the private sector in the exploration
of commercial spaces, the auctioning of old equipment and goods not anymore of use for CPTM, and the
renegotiation of old contracts for advertising (outdoors), which had been very poorly negotiated in the past.
This was a major achievement within this project, for which the Bank team constantly pushed;
· An increase of operational revenues due to special efforts to decrease fare evasion, the installation of
electronic turnstiles and a reduction in the discount on multiple tickets.

CPTM's social function. CPTM also carries out an important social function, among others, through its
special care for passenger with reduced mobility (see Section 10), by allowing for free transport for certain
categories of passengers (11.9 million in 2004), by providing students in railway related areas with
opportunities for traineeships and scholarships, and through a number of other specific programs. The
latter include (a) the education of future users of the system (children and teenagers), (b) community



                                                      - 8 -

meetings to discuss proposals to improve trains, increase security, reduce drug abuse and bring social
events to the stations, (c) initiatives to stimulate the citizens of São Paulo to do exercise, (d) graffiti
projects to improve the appearance of station spaces and trains and provide an opportunity for young
artists, (e) studies regarding the installation of child care, social and sport facilities in areas along train
lines, and (f) a project to re-urbanize the area along the line Jurubatuba/Grajaú. Moreover, close to the Luz
Station (and to other stations) a State office in charge for issuing and renewing official documents (Poupa
Tempo) was installed, thus facilitating the access to these services, especially for old people or people with
reduced mobility.

The positive impact of all these efforts is clearly demonstrated by the results of the user surveys carried out
by ANTP in 2002, 2003 and 2004. As shown in the following graph, the percentage of CPTM's users that
rated the service quality/image of CPTM generally as excellent or good increased by 4% over this period of
time (from 56 to 60%).


                                                   Service Image


                        90                              81
                                                    7879             76 78
                        80
                                                                          70
                        70                                      67
                                 60                           63               6163
                                               58
                        60  5657             57  56                                 57
                                       52 52
                                     49                     51
                                                                                            48
                        50
                                                                                        4041
                        40

                        30

                        20

                        10

                         0
                             CPTM      A       B      C       D      E (E.L.)  E (T.A.)   F
                             General


                                                    2002  2003  2004
                    .

                Source: ANTP 2004 (E.L. Expresso Leste on Line E and T.A. is the old route of Line E)




                                                      - 9 -

Another clear indicator of user satisfaction is expressed through the increase in total CPTM ridership from
336 million annual passengers in 2001 to 368.8 million in 2004 (10%). During the same period, the
average number of passengers per weekday increased from 1,088 million in 2001 to 1,213 million in 2004
(11.5%), with 1,379 million in December 2004 (see graphs below).




         380
                                               368.8
         370                                                          1.250
                                                                                                            1.213

         360                                                          1.200
                                    353.80                                                        1.162

         350                345.4                                     1.150


         340      336                                                 1.100   1.088

                                                                                       1.054
         330                                                          1.050

         320                                                          1.000

         310                                                          0.950
                 2001       2002    2003       2004                           2001     2002       2003      2004


         Increase in annual CPTM passengers (in million)        Increase in CPTM average passenger per weekday (in million)
                         Source: CPTM                                                Source: CPTM




It should also be highlighted that these results have been achieved with a strong reduction in the number of
CPTM staff from 6,236 in 2001 to 5,573 in 2004 (10.6%).

Finally, the project prepared the ground for the concessioning of CPTM's operations through three main
studies: one considering CPTM's system as a whole, a second for an airport link still to be built under a
private-public partnership, and a third, regarding Line C (blue) together with the future Line 4 of the metro
system. The latter seems now promising and the launching of the bidding process is expected for December
2005, but it finally will all depend on the political will and courage to do so.

Contribution to Reduction of Noise and Pollution from Transport Sources (Objective C): This
objective was achieved through the shift of a considerable number of public transport passengers from the
road to the rail mode. Indeed, CPTM's passenger numbers increased by 10% since 2001, which led to an
elimination of a significant number of buses from the streets of São Paulo, with all the well-known benefits
in terms of emission, noise and congestion reduction. According to surveys carried out by SPTRANS - São
Paulo Transporte SA, the executive office of SMT, the daily number of public transport vehicles (buses,
microbuses and minibuses) in the streets of São Paulo decreased from 9,704 to 7,983 (17.7%) in the period
2000 to 2004.

In addition, incentives for non-motorized transport were provided through the installation of bicycle racks
in the stations and the construction of pedestrian passages, where needed. A major effort was also made in
all stations to adapt them for the use of people with reduced mobility, either through the installation of
elevators or ramps, which are wheelchair friendly.

The fact that the noise and emission control laboratory is not yet terminated implies that there is still space
for more positive environmental effects. Therefore, if only the final results are taken into account, this
objective would have to be qualified as marginally satisfactory. Nevertheless, considering that the civil
works for the laboratory are ongoing, with all equipment already acquired, and the current importance of



                                                          - 10 -

the Global Environment Facility (GEF) agenda in São Paulo, the likelihood that the laboratory will not be
finalized is insignificant, thus the objective is still rated as satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A - Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component (planned US$ 85.8 million; actual
US$ 98.55 million)
This component consisted of three subcomponents and accounted for 90% of the total project cost. Overall
this component output is 95% completed and is considered as highly satisfactory. Details on the
achievement of each subcomponent are included in the following table.

           Subcomponents/Activities                   Completion                              Comments
Permanent Way Program                                      97%
Construction of main track between                        100%
Roosevelt/Brás and Barra Funda Stations (A/D
Lines)
Link between tracks No. 3 and No. 4 of Lines              100%
A/D (Northwest/Southeast) and tracks J and I of
Line E (East)
Rearrangement of access tracks to the                     100%
Roosevelt/Brás Station
 Secondary link from Line B to Line D                      30%        These secondary links are not fundamental for the
 Secondary link from Line E to Line A                      70%        integration of the system, but will further increase its
                                                                      operational efficiency. The conclusion of these links is
                                                                      expected by December 2005.
 Civil Works Program                                       95%
Luz Station: construction of two underground              100%
atriums and a connecting tunnel, installation of
14 escalators, one elevator and three platforms
for passengers with reduced mobility
Luz Station: restoration of the main building              95%
Brás/Roosevelt Station: construction of platforms,        100%
track rearrangements, construction of a
mezzanine, and installation of mechanical
escalators and elevators for passengers with
reduced mobility
Barra Funda Station: installation of elevators for        100%
passengers with reduced mobility and
rearrangement of turnstiles
Construction of Operational Control Center                 60%        For operational reasons, mainly considering the
(OCC)                                                                 availability of more space, the OCC was
                                                                      implemented at the Brás/Roosevelt Station
                                                                      (instead of Barra Funda). The equipment for the
                                                                      OCC is ready to be installed once the civil
                                                                      works (60% completed) are ready (probably by
                                                                      March 2006).




                                                         - 11 -

            Subcomponents/Activities               Completion                        Comments
System Works                                          92%
Supply of signaling system for the new rail link     100%
Installation of this new signaling system             70%      The equipment is ready, the field services are in
                                                               execution, but the software needs to be revised
                                                               and tested before being able to start the
                                                               migration of the system.
Traffic control center for the new rail link          80%      The equipment has still to be installed and the
                                                               expected completion date is the end of
                                                               December 2005.
Installation of the catenary for the new rail link    70%      The finalization depends on the conclusion of
                                                               the secondary links from Line B to D and Line
                                                               E to A.
Provision of automatic turnstiles                    100%


Part B - Air Quality Component (planned US$ 8.1 million; actual US$ 8.3 million)
Under the air quality component, accounting for 9% of the original project costs, it was envisaged to build
and equip a vehicle emissions and noise laboratory for diesel trucks in São Paulo. A contract for the
construction of the laboratory was signed, but due to accessibility problems at the originally selected site,
which required the permission of an existing condominium, the location had to be changed. Moreover, the
budget restriction imposed on the Government of the State of São Paulo in 2002 forced the implementation
agency to reprogram the implementation schedule and disbursements for this activity. After considering a
considerable number of alternative sites, the Environmental Technology Company (CETESB) asked the
Government to build the laboratory in Praia Grande, at sea level, instead of São Paulo, claiming an
advantage for the calibration of the instruments. Studies had to be carried out regarding the suitability of
this location. The civil works for the laboratory have started and are expected to be completed by July
2006. The equipment for the laboratory is available for delivery and will be shipped as soon as it can be
installed in the laboratory (100% completed). This laboratory, to be operated by CETESB, will be the first
of its kind in Brazil.

Considering that the laboratory will be unique in Brazil, together with the fact that the equipment has
already been acquired and fully paid for, and that the works at the new location have started, this
component is considered on an irreversible path to completion. Therefore, and despite the unfortunate
delays, the component is still considered as marginally satisfactory.

Part C - Institutional and Policy Development Component (planned US$ 1.1, actual US$ 0.95 million)
This component accounted for slightly less than 1% of the total base cost and aimed at providing support to
CPTM's concession program, the contribution to the establishment of a RTCC, and the
preparation/updating of an integrated transport, land use, and air-quality management strategy for the
SPMR.

The concessioning of a least part of CPTM's operations was highlighted in the PAD as a possible
controversial aspect and included among the critical risks rated medium, given the political climate at the
time, the adapted mitigation strategy and the fact that the preliminary concession modeling process had
already been completed under the predecessor loan (Loan 3457-BR). Initially, the concessioning of the
whole CPTM system was explored in a study launched in 2000, with the direct involvement of the
Secretariat of Metropolitan Transport (SMTSP), which assured the necessary support. A draft preliminary



                                                    - 12 -

background memorandum was produced and discussed and a financial model presented. In addition, several
concession models for the network were elaborated and the option for the procurement of a concession
project under Bank guidelines explored. The pre-qualification was initially planned for mid-2001.

Since the concession of the whole system did not advance at the necessary pace and considering that 2002
was an election year, during which it is politically risky to advance "bold" decisions, in August 2001 the
concession of only one of CPTM's lines was considered. The choice fell on a CPTM line that would have
allowed for a link to the airport still to be constructed. That way CPTM would have had a concession plus
an investment on a new link, which would also have served the Guarulhos (airport) area. A new concession
study was realized with the support of Infraero, the federal airport agency. Once the new administration
was in place in 2003, they reiterated their intention to vigorously pursue the concession of CPTM.
However, the results of the airport link concession study showed that the amount of investment required
would be beyond the State's and the private sector's financial capacity.

Consequently, CPTM decided to consider Line C for concessioning, and to bundle it with the new metro
Line 4, currently under construction. Preliminary studies carried out for Line C showed good prospects for
feasibility, given also the planned extension of Line C to Grajaú, thus the expected increase in demand. A
schedule for concession was presented to the Bank mission in October 2003. In December 2004 the results
of the feasibility analysis for concessioning Line C together with Line 4 of the metro system, prepared by
the financial advisor to São Paulo Metrô Line 4 Project, were discussed in the State Privatization Program
(Programa Estadual de Desestatização - PED). A number of issues were raised that will now be studied
and taken into account in the final decision on whether or not to go ahead. Nevertheless, if at the end Line
C will not be included in a concessioning package together with Line 4, at least an effort had been made to
explore alternatives for future concessioning, which was the aim of this component. Moreover, the
institutional part of this component changed the mindset of CPTM and the State decision makers who are
now willing to concession the system.

Representatives from the three main government bodies responsible for the oversight of urban transport in
the SPMR have regularly met throughout project implementation under the auspices of an informal
              2


Transport Commission (Câmara de Transporte), which pushed important issues, such as, (a) the
METROPASS, a smart card to be used on the rail systems and the municipal buses, (b) the single ticket (
Bilhete Único) for the municipal buses, (c) intermediate capacity transit systems ("fura-fila"), (d) tariff
and subsidy policies, and (e) modal integration. Despite this successful collaboration, the Transport
Commission has not yet been formalized as RTCC mainly because the parties holding the State and the
Municipality of São Paulo were the main adversaries in the 2004 municipal election. Since January 2005,
the same party is holding the State and City Governments, with converging objectives in terms of urban
transport, thus it has been assured at high level that such formalization, together with the institution of the
METROPASS (or some other common smart card) should soon become a reality. At project end the
Governor submitted a draft law to the General Assembly to create the São Paulo Metropolitan Region and
the Metropolitan Fund, both prerequisites for the formalization of the RTCC.

The integrated transport, land use, and air-quality management strategy for the SPMR was fully updated
during project implementation.
_______________________
2
  Secretaria Municipal de Transporte (SMT), responsible for road based urban transport in the municipality of São Paulo; Secretaria de
Transportes Metropolitanos do Estado de São Paulo (STMSP), responsible for urban transport in the metropolitan region outside the jurisdiction of
SPM, including the oversight of São Paulo Metro, CPTM and the metropolitan bus company (EMTU); and Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes
(SET) which is responsible for roads and railways, other than suburban railways, in the State.




                                                                      - 13 -

Given the great amount of high quality activities carried out under this component, amounting for less than
1% of the project costs, and the progress made by changing the mindset of an organization, which used to
be very "railway conservative", this component is rated fully satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Project works, which accounted for a total investment of US$ 107.80 million, yielded a project net present
value (NPV) of US$ 7,780 million, and an economic rate of return (EIRR) of 252%. These calculations
also include the benefits of the externalities stemming from project implementation, i.e. improved air
quality and reduced accidents.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project on CPTM and on the urban transport actors in São
Paulo was substantial. Under this project, CPTM carried out a number of initiatives and reforms,
including the development of new management tools, the computerization of processes and a change in their
ways of doing business by much more involving the private sector. This change in mindset is extremely
important for a "conservative" railway operator. Indeed, CPTM has started to become more and more
commercially driven and seems ready for the concessioning of the road. The increase in operating and
non-operating revenues and the achievement in terms of cost savings improved the company's financial
standing, and the fact that it is still relying on operating subsidies is mainly due to the high number of
mandated free tickets (golden age, students, court officers, firemen, etc.) and the flat tariff structure. The
latter, for example, when compared to the metro tariff penalizes CPTM because its average trip length is
three times the one in the metro system. Although the loan supported studies to introduce a distance-based
tariff, the impact on the poor living in the outskirts of the SPMR is a cause of concern, and therefore the
State decided to keep the flat tariff and subsidize the operator.

The following table shows that even if the subsidies continue relatively high, the project had an important
effect on CPTM's ridership, thus the subsidy per passenger has decreased importantly between 2000 and
2003.



                                                                            0,39
                                                                     0,4

                            (US$)
                                                                                            0,33


                                                                     0,3                                     0,28
                                                                                                                            0,25
                                 Transportados


                                                                     0,2


                                              Passageiros

                                                         por
                                                                     0,1



                                                            Subversão
                                                                      0
                                                                            2000            2001            2002            2003
                                                                                                  Período

                                                                          Decrease in subsidy per passenger from 2000 to 2003
                                                                                            Source: CPTM



The project also allowed CPTM to improve its management skills, including procurement and financial



                                                                                                - 14 -

management. From a technical standpoint the project constituted a huge challenge by requiring the
implementation of the physical works without interruption of the regular train operations and with
minimum inconvenience for passengers and the general traffic.

Moreover, the project provided STMSP with a unique opportunity to strengthen its structure and improve
its skills and capabilities to monitor and follow-up investment projects under the Transport Secretary's
responsibility. It is worthwhile pointing out that the State of São Paulo is now convinced that its utmost
priority in the sector is to transform CPTM into a surface "metro-like" operation, saving that way millions
of dollars, which would be required for new underground operations. This also was a result of this project.

Finally, the project brought together the several urban transport actors in the SPMR, which successfully
tackled, under the umbrella of an informal urban transport commission, issues, such as system and fare
integration and the joint concessioning of the metro line 4 together with CPTM line C.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Old Structures in an Old and Busy City Center: The interference with old and non-mapped utilities
threatened the fall of part of a station wall and required structural changes to the sewage system that had to
be carried out together with the Municipality of São Paulo. This led to additional delays in the civil works,
which are reflected in the non-timely completion of some project activities and the increase in project costs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Late Signing of the Loan Agreement: The Federal Government and the State of São Paulo were
responsible for the late signing of the loan agreement, thus the postponement of the effectiveness date to 24
months after Board Approval, which caused huge project implementation and disbursement delays, and
required a two-year extension of the project implementation period. In Brazil, the Federal Government
(Central Bank) must authorize a loan before it can be sent for final approval to the Senate, and only after
this approval it can be signed. For this project, the reason for the late signing consisted in the protracted
negotiations between the Federal Government and the State of São Paulo on unsettled financial issues not
related to the project (mainly the privatization of the State Bank). Moreover, there were delays due to the
indecisiveness of STMSP, and the matter only started to advance after a strong letter sent by the task
manager to the Governor of the State of São Paulo. This led to a quick restart of the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of Strong Leadership and Indecisiveness of STMSP/CETESB: CETESB's hesitation in selecting
the site for the noise and emission laboratory was also responsible for delays in its construction.
Nevertheless, the decision of the State to construct it in Praia Grande, at sea level, also took too long and
had an impact on the current delays. STMSP could also have been more decisive in the implementation of
the conclusions of the concession study. In fact, overall it somewhat lacked the leadership needed to venture
into new areas, which were identified in the institutional component of the loan.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual costs for this project were about 13% higher than appraisal estimates (US$ 107,800,000 versus
US$ 95,100,000 estimated at appraisal). The civil works category is the one that contributed most to this
cost overrun because some additional activities resulted necessary given the nature of renovation works of
old structures. Moreover, since some of the basic designs for civil works had been revised at the beginning
of project implementation, the cost of engineering projects was also higher. Finally, the equipment for the
noise and emission control laboratory was nearly 20% more expensive than expected at appraisal, due to
the appreciation of the euro in relation to the dollar. Also, parts of the cost overruns were due to normal



                                                     - 15 -

price increases, mainly given the late project start.

The project had disbursement delays, mainly due to its late effectiveness and the changes in the basic design
of civil works. In terms of counterpart funds, it performed well, with the exception of some minor problems
right at the beginning and in 2002/2003, thus the need to reprogram the financial resources for the
counterpart funds for 2003. Two project extensions were granted, and after a four-month grace period for
the payment of invoices issued before loan closure, the loan funds were completely disbursed by April 30,
2005. This is a great accomplishment if the recent experience with Brazilian loans is considered.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as highly likely. The project is practically finished, with the rail systems integrated
and transfer numbers importantly increased, and only some minor delays, mainly as far as system works
and the OCC are concerned. CPTM's paying passengers on weekdays have increased by nearly half a
million since 1996 (more than 50%), and the company has shown a new attitude towards running its
business. In addition to the achievements in terms of private sector involvement and service quality
improvement, CPTM is currently actively pursuing a program to increase the operational fleet and another
one to improve station accesses. Both programs are in their late study phases and will soon be presented to
STMSP.

Finally, an important sustainability indicator is the interest by the private sector in CPTM's operations
demonstrated through its current involvement in operational activities and the results of the different
concession studies carried out under this project.

As far as the emission and noise control laboratory is concerned, the fact that the equipment is already fully
paid for, together with the start of the civil works at the new location, constitute reasonable guarantees for
its sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This is not applicable because one of the great merits of this project was its implementation without
interruption of the normal operations of the rail systems and with minimum inconvenience for passengers
and the general traffic.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
During identification, the value-added of the Bank in this project was identified in its role as promoter of
physical and tariff integration in the SPMR and as honest broker to provide more credibility for a possible
concessioning process. Right from the beginning the project team engaged in a constructive debate with the
Borrower, and made a strong case for the unique opportunity that this project provided (a) to integrate the
rail systems in São Paulo, (b) to assure a more cost-efficient and user-oriented operation, and (c) to provide
the stepping stone for the increase of private sector participation in the system. Moreover, the Bank team
also focused on the fact that the integration was to a large extent benefiting poor neighborhoods in the
SPMR, which was important in the decision to support the project.

In this sense, the project was fully in line with the 1997 CAS that supported policies and investments
encouraging economic growth and social development in a context of macroeconomic stability, and put
emphasis on efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector, appropriate targeting



                                                     - 16 -

and delivery of support systems to the poor, and improving the creditworthiness of the Brazilian states.
The project aimed at these objectives by (a) promoting operational reforms and financial viability of the
train operator, (b) increasing service quality, (d) fostering private participation in operations, (d) increasing
the efficiency of infrastructure investments, (e) contributing to improved access for the poor, and (f)
reducing government subsidies per passenger. The project is also consistent with the 2003 CAS that sets as
goals greater equity, sustainability and competitiveness through: (a) investments in people, (b) growth
through productivity, (c) stabilization of the economy, (d) delivery of government services to all, and (e)
management of the natural inheritance. Indeed, the improvement of the urban transport system aimed at
fostering the productivity of the city and has increased accessibility to health, education and leisure
facilities, especially for low-income households in the outskirts of the SPMR, thus enhancing the
investment in people and decreasing social exclusion. Also, a greater financial viability of the system and a
consequential decrease in per capita State operating subsidies has contributed to the improvement of State
finances.

The Bank's role in project preparation stimulated the Borrower to evaluate options from an economic,
financial and institutional, instead of a purely technical standpoint. The project design that resulted from
this interaction was adequate because it did not only consider the technical aspects, but focused on the four
pillars essential for the proper management of urban transport systems. Indeed, it strived for (a) the
establishment of a regional coordination commission as well as (b) the integration of transport, land use
and environmental aspects. To assure (c) long-term financial sustainability, the project stressed the need to
look for additional financing mechanisms for the sector, such as revenues from advertising, commercial
spaces, and station use, and to cut operating cost. Finally, it aimed at a (d) greater involvement of the
private sector in the urban transport system operations and investments.

During project appraisal, a comprehensive technical, economic and financial evaluation of the project and
a thorough analysis of the actors and stakeholders were carried out by senior Bank staff and consultants.
The economic evaluation was done in great detail, including a very thorough sensitivity analysis for several
scenarios, and the financial analysis of the system evaluated the situation with and without the project, as
described in Annex 4 of the PAD. The latter also provided an in-depth analysis of major issues in the sector
and addressed the probable risks that were likely to occur at that time, i.e. (a) project cost and time
overruns, (b) delays in the establishment of the RTCC and its sustainability, (c) delays in the procurement
process, (d) the non-timely availability of counterpart funds, and (e) an unsuccessful concessioning process.
Risk minimization measures were devised and implemented and resulted reasonably successful. The lending
instrument was suitable since about 95% of the project was investment-related. There were no problems as
far as the consistency with the Bank's safeguards was concerned.
Based on all these considerations, lending is considered as satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Sufficient resources were allocated towards project supervision, which allowed for the constant monitoring
of the project. Supervision comprised of 80.7 staff weeks, of which about 20% were spent in the field.
Supervision missions took place on average every three to four months, were small in Bank staff, but made
efficient use of local consultants, and lasted a relatively short time. Bank staff tended to combine
supervision mission with other missions to the region, which proved to be very cost-effective, particularly
insofar as travel is concerned. Staff continuity permitted a high level of vigilance and a comprehensive
understanding to guide the Borrower through implementation difficulties.

Supervision was particularly intense in 1999 to push the project from the ground and to assure that despite
the late effectiveness a minimum amount of activities would be carried out. Great resources were allocated
in 2003 to supervise the civil works and closely follow the studies that laid the base for the concessioning



                                                      - 17 -

of the system.

CPTM prepared a detailed project status report for each supervision mission that was provided to the Bank
team on CD-ROM. All project-related information was also put on an internet site (www.icentro.com.br),
which is partly available to the general public and partly only to the project partners.

The frequent supervision missions and the detailed reports prepared by the implementation agency allowed
for a timely identification of problems, implementation delays and potential funding problems, and pushed
for the necessary actions. All supervision missions were documented in the PSRs and the Aide Memoires.

During the mid-term review, which spanned the March-November 2003 period, the progress in the civil
works was assessed, some adjustments made to the original bids and the institutional achievements
discussed. The target values of the progress indicators were reviewed and revised since their timely
achievement had resulted unrealistic in the light of the late project effectiveness and necessity to extend the
project implementation period by two years. The revised indicators are reflected in Annex 1.

The Executive Vice President of IFC, the Director of the Finance, Infrastructure and Private Sector
Department of the Latin America Region of the World Bank and IBRD's QAG Director all visited the
system and were very complimentary of the project and the way it was designed and implemented.

Overall, the Bank team helped CPTM to strengthen their technical, economic and financial evaluation
capacity and acted as mediator because of the differences between the State and the Federal Government,
especially in the beginning, when a strong push was necessary to jumpstart the project from the ground,
and later on in the discussions on system integration, concessioning and the update of the integrated
transport, land-use and air-quality management strategy for the SPMR. Based on all these considerations,
supervision is considered as highly satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank team played an important role during project identification, preparation and appraisal. It
provided valuable input to the identification and preparation of a project of fundamental importance for the
mobility and livelihood in the SPMR. Bank supervision was intense, especially in the beginning of the
implementation period and later on, when the civil works were already relatively well advanced. The
support provided by the Bank team to CPTM and the other government entities directly involved in the
project related to all areas of decision making. The frequent supervision missions allowed the Bank team to
regularly accompany the developments in the field, propose adjustments, discuss future implementation
steps and actions, and assist in the identification of appropriate solutions. This support and the Bank's role
as mediator was highly appreciated by the client. Consequently the Bank`s overall performance is rated as
highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. CPTM and STMSP adequately
identified the priorities of the urban transport system in São Paulo. They detailed the required civil works,
assessed the status of buildings and systems, estimated the investment needs and recognized the institutional
weaknesses in the sector, especially as far as formal public transport coordination and concessioning had
been concerned. They closely worked together with the Bank team in the preparation of the project
documentation and facilitated all contacts with local authorities and industry representatives. CPTM also
prepared the equivalent of the current project implementation plan and assisted the Bank in the economic
evaluation and financial analysis of the project, from which it greatly benefited for its normal work.



                                                     - 18 -

Preparations for timely procurement were taken and demand analysis and project economic and financial
evaluation techniques were refined in CPTM as a by-product of the intensive participation in project
preparation.

In summary, the CPTM and STMSP worked fully satisfactorily throughout project preparation and
provided substantial logistical support and the necessary information to appraise the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
As already mentioned, due to disputes between the State of São Paulo and the Federal Government
regarding the rescheduling of the State debt and the sale of the State Bank, issues totally unrelated to this
project, the latter became only effective two years after Board Approval. However, once the project
implementation started, the Government of the State of São Paulo was fully supportive, backing the
concessioning studies and leading important discussions within the informal transport commission (see
Section 4.2, Part C).The budget allocations for this project were adequate, except for some cash problems
of the State of São Paulo in the very beginning, and some additional problems with counterpart funds
during the period 2002/2003, due to budget restriction imposed on the State. The Government of São Paulo
also provided CPTM with the necessary operating subsidies to improve its service quality and attract new
passengers at the benefit of the overall quality of life in the SPMR.

In terms of concessioning of CPTM's operations, the Government of São Paulo, through STMSP, was very
supportive, but the fact that 2002 was an election year did not allow it to take the bold steps to implement
the concessioning of the whole CPTM system. Alternatively a compromise was reached to focus on a single
line, for which new studies were necessary. The new State administration reiterated its full support for the
concessioning process, but the conclusions of the feasibility study for the chosen line were negative. The
studies for the joint concessioning of Line C of CPTM with Line 4 of the metro system have not yet been
fully concluded, but it is expected that a positive result would bring this concession from the ground
without major political obstacles.

The State Government, through STMSP, was also in favor of the formalization of the RTCC, but was not
able to get the necessary support from the other urban transport actors in the SPMR, in particular the
Municipality of São Paulo. This situation changed at project closure due to the election of a new municipal
government, with which the State has set the formalization of the RTCC as a goal for early 2006. Overall,
it can be said that the State, through STMSP, was a bit slow in taking the main institutional decisions, but
considering the priority it gave to the project, especially in financial terms, and given the strong general
support, the implementation performance of the Government of the State of São Paulo is rated satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall coordination and supervision of the proposed project rested with the STMSP, while the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) within CPTM was responsible for project implementation. This unit was
adequately staffed with well-skilled engineers and planners, and supported by an excellent project
management consulting firm. Moreover, the head of the Implementation Unit did not change until almost
the end of the project, which provided for continuity. Some staff members of CPTM had already worked in
the previous Bank-financed urban transport project in São Paulo (Loan 3457-BR), thus had the necessary
experience to manage well the Bank's procurement guidelines and standard bidding documents. Overall the
PIU was a diligent implementation agent, correctly applying the Bank's rules and requirements. Progress
reports were duly and timely submitted throughout the project and were very detailed, following the format
agreed with the Bank. In general, the audit reports as well as the entity's financial statements were
submitted on time and accepted without reservations. There was compliance with Bank procurement and



                                                      - 19 -

financial management rules.

To assure transparency in project implementation, facilitate project data access and dissemination, and
support project management, CPTM created an internet site (www.icentro.com.br), with part of the
information meant for the general public, while the access to some sections of the site is limited to people
directly involved in the project. This part of the site served as management tool to monitor and control the
physical and financial progress of the project as well as to host the database for the general integrated
project information system. The site documented all visits to the field and includes the mission Aide
Memoires. It is an innovation in infrastructure projects that is worth mentioning. Moreover, during project
implementation, CPTM computerized all their management processes, including the procurement
procedures.

Project implementation constituted a big challenge for CPTM from a technical point of view. They were
able to carry out the project works without interruption of the normal train operations and with a minimum
nuisance to passengers and the general traffic. This required excellent planning, coordination, management
and public relations skills. In the renovation of the stations, CPTM also applied innovative and sometimes
state-of-the-art engineering and architectural solutions, which resulted in the outstanding renovation of the
stations to their original look. Also, a major effort was undertaken to connect the station with its
surroundings, making the area a true community center, which has improved the quality of life of the
passenger. An additional effort in this direction was the commissioning of wall panels for the Luz Station
by well-known artists.

STMSP successfully assured the overall project coordination and the liaison with the other project
beneficiaries and stakeholders, namely the Federal Foreign Affairs Secretariat (SEAIN), CETESB and
other State Secretariats. STMSP played a crucial rule in the dialogue on institutional issues.

It is also worthwhile mentioning that the implementation of this project helped STMSP to strengthen its
structure and improve its skills and capabilities to monitor and follow-up investment projects under the
Transport Secretary's responsibility. With the purpose to oversee and manage the resources for the
implementation of investments under the integrated transport, land use, and air quality management
strategy of SPMR, STMSP created in 2004 a special group, led in a collegial way by the stakeholder
companies (Metrô, CPTM and EMTU).

Generally, compliance with the project's legal covenants was substantial, but could have been better if
CPTM had stronger leadership to follow up on the recommendations of the PIU and the Bank's team.

Considering the innovative aspects of project management and implementation and the excellent
performance of CPTM, this aspect is rated highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Both CPTM and STMSP performed very well in terms of project preparation and implementation. For
CPTM the latter implied great challenges from a technical standpoint, which they mastered in an
outstanding way. Procurement, financial management and overall project management went very smoothly.
STMSP took the necessary steps to lay the basis for the implementation of the institutional parts of the
project and always provided all necessary support, although it lacked the decisiveness for bold decisions
based on the recommendations of the studies in the institutional part of the project. At the political level and
as far as financial resources were concerned, the Government of the State of São Paulo fully supported the
project, even if they had some troubles to kick it from the ground. Based on all these considerations, the
Borrower performance overall is rated satisfactory.


                                                     - 20 -

8. Lessons Learned

Several lessons can be derived from the implementation of this project. They are summarized below.

Concessioning: As correctly pointed out in the PAD, including concessioning of rail-based urban transport
systems into the project not only means risks in terms of not finding interested parties, but also, and even
more importantly, in terms of political opposition. In this project, the first type of risk seemed mitigated by
the fact that some basic pre-concessioning studies, including a concession modeling, had already been
carried out under the previous urban transport project (Loan 3457-BR). To mitigate the risk of political
opposition by the unions dated covenants for issuing pre-qualification documents and concession awarding
had been included in the loan agreement. Nevertheless, even if some success stories with concessioning rail
systems in Brazil have been registered over the last decade or so, in particular with the urban rail system in
Rio de Janeiro, the political courage and timing needed for such a step should not be underestimated.
Therefore, the main lesson that should be taken from this project experience is that it is not sufficient to
include dated covenants in the loan agreement to guarantee success. If concessioning is one of the project
development objectives, which was not the case in this project, a very strong, concrete and irreversible
political step in this direction should already be given before project negotiation. Otherwise the project
objectives should be formulated in a less ambitious manner, being limited to preparing the necessary
background studies and paving the way for such possible future step. Concessioning only happens when
there is bold political leadership. In this case neither CPTM nor STMSP had that leadership, but they
complied with the development objective of increasing private sector participation in the management of the
system by outsourcing a number of activities and working towards future concessioning.

Creation of a Formal RTCC: As mentioned before, the urban transport actors of the SPMR regularly met
throughout the implementation of this project under the auspices of an informal transport commission,
which has been able to make progress on a number of important integration issues. However, despite this
"collaborative environment", the recognition that urban transport services can only be provided effectively
and efficiently if all actors work together, and a strong determination by the Government of the State of São
Paulo, it was not possible to transform this transport commission into a formal RTCC, mainly because of
the fact that the city government was in the hands of the opposition party. This confirms that creating a
new and formal entity, to which the constituting agencies have to cede some of their authority and powers,
requires more than the presence of a "collaborative environment" and the recognition of the importance and
value of working together. It needs an understanding at political level, which is now expected to happen
because both the State and the Municipality of São Paulo found a common cause in the integration of the
municipal buses with the metro.

Formal Integration with the Minibus System: All over Latin America and in many other parts of the
world, informal transport is provided with small and often old and very polluting vehicles, which bring
congestion and air pollution to intolerable levels. These services also create a strong competition for regular
public transport operators and so put the viability of less polluting and more space efficient systems at
stake. The fight against this phenomenon is no easy battle and very few cities have yet been fully
successful. This is because informal transport operators are often organized in very powerful association
(lobbies) that have significant political influence, while the authorities responsible for the area in which
they operate do not talk to each other. In addition, for many drivers this activity is their only means of
revenue. Informal transport also provides a door-to-door service that is often valued by its users, despite
their complaints about unsafe driving and crowding.

During the implementation of this project, CPTM correctly recognized the potential of these services and



                                                      - 21 -

reached a formal agreement with the minibus operators to integrate their services with the rail system
(ORCA project). In this way, they added an important number of passengers to their system (Metrô and
ORCA transfers increased by 2.32 million in 2004, compared to 2003). In addition, this innovative way to
turn the existing van system into a partner rather than a competitor also resulted in a reduction of accidents,
a decrease of congestion with all the well-known benefits in environmental terms, and a greater efficiency
of the overall urban transport system.

The reason for this success lies in the nature of the solution, which did not consist in repression of the
informal services, but their constructive inclusion, as much as possible, into the formal urban transport
system.

Bundling and Sequencing of Contracts: For the implementation of this project, CPTM bundled together
infrastructure, services and equipment within single contracts. This not only provided economies in terms
of contract procurement and management, but also assured the timely supply of goods and equipment, thus
led to quicker project implementation. On the other hand, however, the logic of sequencing adapted by
CPTM in procuring the signaling system and the OCC created interdependency between the different
contracts, and delays in the permanent way infrastructure led to delays in the signaling contract completion,
and jeopardized the timely completion. Nevertheless, this had to be done in that way because the permanent
way infrastructure had to be previously in place. Moreover, because the same consortium was responsible
for all the products, the costs of these delays were minimized. So, bundling and sequencing is certainly
better than independent contracts normally awarded to independent contractors. The lesson to be learned
from this experience is that bundling and scheduling of the different works and supplies becomes essential
for the success of the project.

Old Structures and Utilities Networks: Despite all the care in the project preparation phase when one
deals with very old structures, chances are great that a number of very old and inactivated utility networks
are not documented in old building plans. Dealing with these utility networks adds time and costs to the
project. The lesson to be learned is that schedules for renovating old structures, such as the Luz Station,
should not be too optimistic and the time allocated for underground structures of old buildings should be
generous because most likely unexpected utility networks not mapped anywhere will be found and their
removal may cause significant delays.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                           Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos ­ CPTM
                                       Loan Agreement No. 4312-BR
Introduction
On May 28, 1992, the Government of the State of São Paulo authorized the constitution of a company
organized as a private-public joint stock company to operate the urban and suburban passenger railway
transportation services, which are part of the São Paulo Metropolitan Integrated Transportation System (
Sistema Integrado de Transporte Metropolitano de São Paulo). This took place through State Law No.
7862, which created Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos ­ CPTM with the function of public
operator of the existing railway transportation network. The new entity became responsible for operating
and maintaining the urban train system of the São Paulo Metropolitan Area ­ SPMR, which was until then
operated by a Regional Superintendence of the extinguished federally-owned Companhia Brasileira de
Trens Urbanos ­ CBTU and by the Metropolitan Transportation Directorate of the Ferrovia Paulista S/A
­ FEPASA, which was at that time under the control of the State of São Paulo Government. This



                                                     - 22 -

relationship derived from a program developed by the Federal Government and the International Bank for
Development and Reconstruction (IBRD), the Urban Metropolitan Rail Transport Decentralization
Program (Programa de Descentralização do Transporte Metropolitano de Trens Urbanos) for Rio de
Janeiro and São Paulo, object of Loan Agreement No. 3457-BR with the IBRD, which aimed at
implementing the transfer of the national public transport network controlled by the federal government to
the respective local administrative units.

CPTM's articles of association were signed on July 2nd, 1993, which prepared it administratively to take
over the services operated by the two companies in the SPMR. On August 3rd, 1993, through the Federal
Law No. 8693, the Federal Government determined the beginning of the decentralization of the services
operated by CBTU and decided on the donation of the capital stock in each regional unit, which had then to
be transferred by means of an equity split-up and an immediate incorporation to the new company created
in each location for the operation of these services. This happened in São Paulo on May 26, 1994. In 1996,
through the State Law No. 9342, a set of similar procedures determined the split-up, with the consequent
incorporation of the passenger urban rail transport network operated by FEPASA in the Metropolitan Area,
leading to the final constitution acts for CPTM.

Project Objectives
On December 7th, 1999, the Government of State of São Paulo signed a Loan Agreement with the IBRD,
together with the guarantee agreement from the Federal Government, in the amount of US$45,0 million
(LOAN 4312-BR), undertaking to contribute local resources of US$50,1 million to implement the Barra
Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto Integração Centro). This amounted to a total of US$95,1 million
intended for the execution of the rehabilitation of 7 km of permanent track and aerial line, the functional
modernization and architectonic repair of the Stations of Brás and Luz, the construction of an Operating
Control Center for the supervision of the three existing centers in one single building, the implementation of
a new field signaling system to allow the integrated operation of the six lines, which comprise CPTM's
railway mesh in the downtown São Paulo convergence stretch (Barra Funda, Luz and Brás), and the
construction of a laboratory to be operated by CETESB for the control of vehicles emissions and noise, and
the acquisition of the respective equipment to be installed in the building to be constructed. The Project also
foresaw the development of the respective engineering designs, the work and system supervision services,
the project management and the preparation of concessioning studies for at least one of CPTM's line.

The project had the following objectives: (a) to finance the infrastructure and equipment which are essential
for the physical integration between the railway system and the metro network operated by Companhia do
Metrô de São Paulo; (b) to increase the private sector's participation in the management and operation of
urban rail transport in the São Paulo Metropolitan Area; and (c) to contribute to the reduction of noise and
pollution, originating from large size engines and motorcycles.

The Project's implementation may be considered of great importance for the daily passenger movements in
the SPMR, as it integrates, at Barra Funda, Luz and Brás Complex, approximately 270 kilometers of the
network operated by CPTM with the network of approximately 59 kilometers operated by Metrô, with
savings in travel time, regularity, reliability, and at reasonable cost. This led, in addition to the physical
integration mentioned above, to the fare integration between two high-capacity operators in the SPMR. As
CPTM transports mostly low-income passengers, it is natural that the benefit for the citizen is
unquestionable; because passengers going from east to west of the SPMR can use the free transfer among
the six CPTM lines themselves, and also connect with the three lines operated by Metrô: Line 1 ­ Blue,
North-South axis of the City; in the Luz complex, where they also have access to the Central area of the
Capital City of the São Paulo State; with Line 3 ­ Red, from east to downtown, in the Brás complex; and,
in the future, from west and southwest to downtown and east, with Line 4 ­ yellow.


                                                     - 23 -

The architectonic repair of a symbol of the City and of the history of its citizens is also highlighted. In fact,
the Luz Station also constitutes a landmark of the national railway patrimony, for its cultural and
anthropological value, as it represents the State's social-economic progress. The repair under CPTM's
responsibility, involving the Gare and the other operating facilities of the station, and its accesses, through
physical arrangements, which allow for urban rail and metro movements, without interfering with the
City's heavy traffic, providing quality gains in travel, while favoring the operational safety of the
passengers who use CPTM and Metrô trains.

Historical and centenary, the Luz Station was repaired with the purpose of returning a cultural asset,
closely linked to City development, to its citizens. Designed at the end of the 19th century, its construction
was concluded in 1900, and operations began in 1901. It has to be mentioned that at that time, the Station
was part of an old concession of the Empire to the private sector, the Estrada de Ferro São Paulo
Railway, SPR, called the Inglesa (the English), which connected the São Paulo coffee production center to
the Santos Port, and performed the transportation of passengers who used the same port for their ocean
travels to Europe and to the rest of the world. The Inglesa had its contract maintained by the dominant
political classes after the Proclamation of the Republic in 1889, becoming decadent under the coffee cycle
downfall. However it did not resist to a large fire in 1946, the year of the end of its concession.

The Inglesa engineers foresaw that the Luz Station works should not interrupt the future growth of the
City's economic activities and, for that reason, they designed its main body at the level of existing transport
system the place intended for the implementation of the tracks, confining the circulation of the trains under
the Gare.

The current design benefited the supporters of maintaining the historical complex according to the original
condition at the time of its placement under government trust, allowing the access of the passengers to the
domains where the operations are performed through two underground rooms and their connection with the
Metro lines under the Gare building.

The Barra Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto Integração Centro) provided an opportunity for national
engineering to undertake new and innovative solutions, privileging the recovery of public assets through a
functional arrangement without precedents, with (a) the sub-foundation of the Gare and of the stations
surroundings by 14.5 meters, (b) the construction of new interconnecting accesses with the Metro and the
bordering urban ways, (c) the installation of 14 (fourteen) escalators, which serve the two underground
rooms intended for the dislocation of passengers of the Metropolitan Trains System (Sistema de Trens
Metropolitanos), and (d) the implementation of elevators and platforms for passengers with special needs.

The finishing materials of the Luz Station Gare as well as all the finishing materials, such as bricks, woods
and isolation glasses, were executed in a very precise and manual fashion under the responsibility of a "real
battalion of artisans". These finishing materials of the Luz Station Gare were of English origin in the
fences, window sills and longitudinal corridors, as well as in arches and lattice works, which form the
metallic structure of notable curvature, projecting over a great part of the four railway lines, which serve
the central platform in two faces and the two sides.

The repair of the station's main body has been performed under the auspices of an agreement celebrated
between the State of São Paulo and Fundação Roberto Marinho, the latter responsible for the management
of a cultural pole called Estação Luz da Nossa Língua, which sponsors cultural activities aimed at the
maintenance of the Portuguese Language.




                                                     - 24 -

Today, in addition to preserving the main body of the Luz Station and to the cultural activities carried out
by the State Culture Secretariat and by other civil organizations, the citizens of São Paulo can also count
with a wide range of logistic accesses. Indeed, from a the strategic aspect, the transportation matrix aims at
interconnection all CTPM's rail lines among themselves, and with the lines operated by Companhia do
Metropolitano de São Paulo ­ Metrô, to establish a metro-railway network of undeniable expression. This
unified network has the mission to promote the inclusion of the main districts located in extreme points of
the city and SPMR, where areas occupied by low-income populations prevail.

The São Paulo Integrated Urban Transport Program was originally planned as a joint implementation of
the Barra Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto Integração Centro) together with Line 4 ­ Yellow, of the
Metrô, as documented in Staff Appraisal Report of February 1st, 1995 (DCR No. 12730-BR). However, a
Bank reassessment mission reviewed the project documents in June 1997, deciding to choose the Barra
Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto Integração Centro) for its immediate implementation. The project was
resized and reviewed in the Staff Appraisal Report of March 3rd, 1998 (DCR No. 17021-BR) together
with the Finance Secretary of the State of São Paulo, STMSP, CPTM and also CETESB. The operation,
which had IBRD's financial support, was approved on April 7th, 1998.

The work plan, which supported the reformulation at the moment of appraisal, was further detailed during
its execution, to include a more accurate perspective. This was necessary because the conception dedicated
to the Luz and Brás Stations needed to privilege passenger movements in a view of the physical integration
with the metro, a commercial operation cycle of the trains at intervals not to exceed the 6 minutes (to
support the demand caused by the smaller headways between trains) and the afflux of new aggregated users
due to the new configuration of the transportation supply. Therefore, in the successive Supervision
Missions which took place in 2001, CPTM submitted to IBDR a review of the conceptual arrangements,
which were detailed to optimize the implementation of the Barra Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto
Integração Centro), comprising the following main aspects: i) adjustment of the functional designs of Brás
and Luz stations; ii) specification of a track plan capable of ensuring the interpenetration of the A/E and
B/D lines into the Luz complex, maintaining Line F in Brás, and extending the line B until Brás and line E
until Barra Funda; and iii) a two-module operation, North Arch and South Arch, with the dedicated
operational and administrative decentralization, in terms of fleet, yards and technical and operating
personnel.

The studies, which seized the functional projects of CPTM lines A/D, B/C and E were contracted out to
local engineering consulting companies with State resources, and for Line F they were contracted with
non-recoverable resources with the US Trade Development Agency ­ TDA. The Bank was duly informed
about it and considered these contributions as Borrower's counterpart funds.

This need for detailing gave rise to the first request for the extension of the Project's closing date, from
December 31st, 2002 to December 31st, 2003, acknowledged by the Bank and by the Secretariat for
International Affairs of the Planning, Budgeting and Management Ministry - SEAIN.

The main reasons for the project implementation extension for a total of 24 months were: i) the Loan
Agreement becoming effective only on 04/04/2000; ii) the effective beginning of the works and supplies
only starting in April 2001, giving rise to the unavoidable review of implementation schedule; and iii) the
rescheduling of the financial resources for payments in 2003, arising from the budgetary restriction
imposed by the State Government. The latter gave rise to a review of the work execution schedule for the
Barra Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto Integração Centro) and the consequent development of an action
plan, envisaging the conclusion of the project in 2004.




                                                    - 25 -

Experience Obtained in the Implementation and Results
The acquisition model envisaged during the Reassessment Mission was reformulated during Project
implementation; however, generally speaking it showed to be adequate for the evolution of the undertaking.

The bidding approved by the Bank under the Infrastructure and Equipment Component were successful not
only in administrative terms, but also because they gathered together in the same process works and
services with the acquisition of goods and equipment. This avoided the separation of the services from the
supplies, favoring the physical advancement of the interventions.

In this way, the processes and procedures were generally assimilated by CPTM's technical staff and by the
economic agents who showed interest and actually participated of the processes.

The local market of agents in the consulting or consulting engineering industry brought an undeniable
contribution to the undertaking because it responded to the challenges by bringing in best practice
experiences, such as the one already mentioned regarding the adoption of innovative technical construction
methods.

Bank Performance
This was the second project in which CPTM and the Bank acted as partners. The Bank has always had a
very high level of interest and desire to cooperate in the development of the project, from the period of the
Reassessment Mission of the Barra Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto Integração Centro) until the
preparation of the Report by the Evaluation Team.

After the signature of the Loan Agreement and during the course of the program activities, until the
conclusion date, such interest was evidenced through support actions for CPTM's members and for
government agencies in all decision taking lines. The Project's periodical Supervision Missions, following
up on its development, proposing adjustments, discussing interfaces and implementation steps with
necessary actions or cooperating on the search for solutions, as well as debating the solutions which were,
at the end, the result of an agreement, constituted the mark of the ideal partnership for such an undertaking.


Whenever requested and justified through evidence, the Bank presented itself for a prompt allocation of
resources, which was essential for CPTM to be capable of fulfilling its financial obligations with suppliers
and consultants, what certainly offered the necessary peace of mind for the Project implementation.

Given all the support offered to CPTM, as shown by effective actions, our assessment of the Bank's
performance can only be rated as highly satisfactory.

Borrower's Participation
The Borrower's counterpart fund contributions, foreseen during the budgeting periods, during Project
implementation and at a general lever, were never interrupted.

The State Finance Secretariat, responsible for the Borrower's actions, as well as the State Economy and
Planning Secretariat, always dedicated to the Project their best efforts to ensure sufficient resources in the
multi-year budget and in the Budget Guideline Law of each one of the State's fiscal years.

The previous authorizations for the realization of investment expenditures within the Project execution
period, object of State Law No. 41195, of 1996, were timely processed and allowed the celebration of
several agreements with contractors, suppliers and consultants.


                                                     - 26 -

The Metropolitan Transportation State Secretariat - STMSP acted, at all times, in support of CPTM's
arrangements with the Bank and with other entities, which interacted in the Project's implementation, such
as, SEAIN, CETESB, and other State Secretariats, such as the Environment Secretariat.

STMSP was responsible for the higher level discussions regarding institutional matters, especially with the
Governor's Office, regarding the Privatization State Program ­ PED and the presentation to the Bank of
the concession strategies of at least one of CPTM's lines to the private sector.

It is worthy recording that, starting in 2004, STMSP has been systematically strengthening its monitoring
and follow up structure for the business evolution of the several investments under the Secretary's
responsibility, with the creation of a Managing Group, which comprises collegial directorships of the
operating agencies under its jurisdiction such as, Metrô, CPTM and EMTU. The purpose of this Group is
to manage the resources obtained from the State and from multilateral and local investment bodies. This
Group is monitoring the evolution of contracted implementation schedules for each of the major groups of
projects selected under the Integrated Urban Transportation Plan ­ PITU.

CPTM firmly believes that, according to the State Government guidelines and the synergies created by the
newly elected government of the Municipality of São Paulo at the beginning of 2005, there will be room for
joint investment of the two government levels aiming, especially, at the adoption of common policies
regarding metropolitan transportation in the SPMR, as well as the formalization of a chamber similar to a
RTCC recommended by IBRD technicians, where more effective public policies for the sector may be
discussed and implemented.

Some initiatives may already be revealed in this new scenario, such as the adoption of a single ticket for
integration of municipal and inter-municipal buses, and CPTM trains and the Metrô, through a fee
compensation system. There is also the willingness of the government leaders to sign agreements for mutual
cooperation, even involving the development of a joint action, by State and City, in the field of
Public-Private Partnerships for the expansion of the railway system in the SPMR, involving the
construction of new lines, the acquisition of rolling stock and the adaptation of a system, which ensures the
maintenance and durability of the existing physical network.

Program Results Assessment
The implementation of a physical integration project of such magnitude, interconnecting two high-capacity
transportation systems, in a high density metropolitan area, where approximately 3,5 million daily
passengers use a total system of 330 kilometers, constituted a challenge which honored the participation of
all public agents and technicians involved.

The high degree of motivation of CPTM's corporate levels, which developed a Master Plan for CPTM's
investment program implementation period, including the Barra Funda Roosevelt Project, as well as its
long-lasting interactions in the daily activities with the consultants, suppliers and contractors, contributed
to the Project's success and the internal management commitment to follow strict procedures with
contractors.

The Barra Funda ­ Roosevelt Project (Projeto Integração Centro) has an unprecedented strategic value
since it was executed without interrupting the commercial train operations. Moreover, it did not impose to
the system user any kind of material or personal integrity risks, and ensured, during the whole execution
period of the works and physical interventions, the daily dislocations of the population served by the
Metropolitan Train.


                                                     - 27 -

Summary of Benefits, Future Actions and Main Lessons Learned with the Project
The relationship of the Borrower, its representatives of the Finance State Secretariat, STMSP, CPTM,
Metrô and other entities with the members of the Bank led to significant progress and allowed for the
development of joint actions of great importance for the implementation of the Barra Funda ­Roosevelt
project.

The experience acquired by the technicians involved in the different levels of execution and Project
implementation constitutes an added value, allowing CPTM to absorb even greater challenges, counting
with the financial contribution of the Bank and with technicians and authorities from several government
levels involved in the program.

CPTM had the chance to receive countless technical visits from authorities during the Project
implementation, among which we highlight the Florence and Turin Commerce Chamber, missions from the
South Africa Republic, the Executive Vice President of IFC, the Director of the Finance, Infrastructure and
Private Sector Department of the Latin America Region of the World Bank and IBRD's QAG Director. All
were very complimentary of the project and the way it was designed and implemented.

São Paulo, March 23, 2005.
Stanislav Feriancic, Project Coordinator and CPTM Engineer and Works Director

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 28 -

- 29 -

Accessibility for Passengers with Reduced Mobility

Accessibility is a constant worry for CPTM, and one of their objectives is the functional adaptation and
modernization of all their stations on Lines A, B, C, E and F, for them to comply with the legal
requirements in terms of accessibility.

Many CPTM stations were built in the 50s, thus there is a need to adapt them not only to the new legal
requirements for people with reduced mobility, but also to the requirements of urban inclusion, operational
flexibility, functional needs of future demand and modal integration. Sometimes this implies the complete
reconstruction of stations.

CPTM is mainly focusing on the installation of elevators, escalators, access ramps, and other facilities for
people with reduced mobility, which often require important civil works, including the functional
adaptation of the circulation system around stations. Parts of such activities were financed through this
project, particularly in the Brás and Luz stations, which can be considered as best practice models.

Of the 88 CPTM stations, 15 are currently considered as fully accessible for people with reduced mobility.
These include five station of Line E Expresso Leste (Guaianazes, José Bonifácio, Dom Bosco e
Corinthians-Itaquera), the Tatuapé, Brás, Luz and Barra Funda Stations, and seven new stations on Line C
(Hebraica-Rebouças, Cidade Jardim, Vila Olímpia, Berrini, Morumbi, Granja Julieta e Socorro). 13 other
stations partially satisfy the needs of people with reduced mobility.

Out of the fleet of 349 trains, 40 on the Lines E and C are fully equipped for people with reduced mobility.
All CPTM vehicles have reserved seating people with reduced mobility. Phones for deaf-mute passengers
are available in the Lapa, Luz, Água Branca, Barra Funda and Francisco Morato Stations of Line A and B,
in the Santo Amaro Station of Line C, in the Tatuapé and Guaianazes Stations of Line E and in the Santo
André, São Caetano, Mauá and Ipiranga Stations of Line D.

A guide for blind passengers, with information on all CPTM services has been published. It includes all
stations of all six CPTM lines, their physical layout, the possibilities for integration with the Metrô, a map
of the metropolitan transport possibilities, including the Metrô and inter-municipal bus lines operated by
EMTU. This guide also includes planned lines and future stations.

In addition to what was previously mentioned, the specific services provided by CPTM include:

·        Preferential passage for people with reduced mobility at turnstiles;
·        Audiovisual stop announcement;
·        Public phones adapted for people in wheelchairs and, in some stations, for mute passengers;
·        Public restrooms adapted for people with reduced mobility.

Similar services and facilities are also provided by other operators in the SPMR, in particular EMTU and
Metrô, which all together assures the smooth integration and inclusion of people with special needs.




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
270 km of suburban rail commuter services         Target for 2004: 100% accomplished.         100% accomplished.
linked and integrated with other modes.

Percentage of CPTM stations with integrated Target for 2004: 70% of CPTM stations with 62% of CPTM stations with integrated
bus/rail and metro/rail lines (refers to stations integrated bus/rail and metro/rail lines.   bus/rail and metro/rail lines.
identified in Ln.3457-BR as worthy of being
integrated) - Baseline 25%.
                                                  Target for 2004: CPTM share of urban        CPTM share of urban transport motorized
CPTM share of urban transport motorized           transport motorized trips is 8.5%.          trips is 7.5%.
trips (%) - Baseline 6% (*) .

Average interval between trains at peak hour Targets for 2004:
in minutes - Baselines:
Lines A/D                                  10     Lines A/D                                 8 Lines A/D                                9
Line B                                        7   Line B                                    8 Line B                                   7
Line E                                      10    Line E                                    6 Line E                                   7
Line F                                       12   Line F                                    9 Line F                                   9
Line C                                      17    Line C                                    7 Line C                                   7

Availability of Rolling Stock (%) - Baseline      Target for 2004: 95%                        92.4%
65%.

Working Subsidy or Surplus (US$millions) -                                                    (83.7)
Baseline (105.0) (**)

CPTM concession process.                                                                      Concession studies/modelling finalized,
                                                                                              concessioning is depending on a political
                                                                                              decision.

Establishment of formal RTCC.                                                                 Precursor established.

User Survey.                                                                                  4 annual surveys completed (2001, 2002,
                                                                                              2003, 2004).




                                                                     - 31 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase of paying passengers per work day Target for 2002 established at appraisal: 250 478
carried by CPTM (in thousands) (***)-
Baseline 0.


% of Civil Works completed.                  Target for 2004: 100% of Civil Works        94,5% of Civil Works completed.
                                             completed.


Rail link between Barra Funda and Roosevelt Target for 2004: 100% completed and fully    100% completed and fully operational.
completed and fully operational.             operational.
% of Systems Works completed.                Target for 2004: 100% of Systems Works      92,3% of Systems Works completed.
                                             completed.
% of Permanent Way Works completed.          Target for 2004: 100% of Permanent Way      97,2% of Permanent Way Works completed.
                                             Works completed.

1End of project
Note: The target values for 2004 were revised in April 2004.
(*)    Calculations based on simulations.
(**) The values related to financial subsidies were provided by GESP to CPTM. Conversion rate: 1US$ = 2.75 R$. It is
important to point out that the average fare of CPTM is calculated using the average trip length of the subway system (4 to 6
km). Therefore, the trip length of the average rail passenger is 18 km, i.e. three times more. Therefore, CPTM revenues do not
cover costs and operational subsidies as required. Data relates to October 2004.
(***) Increase of demand is the working day average. Based on simulations.




                                                               - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                            Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                             Component                                    US$ million   US$ million
1) Infrastructure and Equipment Investment                                   73.80          98.55         133.53
2) Air Quality                                                                7.00            8.30        118.57
3) Institutional and Policy Development                                       0.95            0.95         97.69

Total Baseline Cost                                                          81.75         107.80
  Physical Contingencies                                                      8.57            0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                         4.78            0.00
                                Total Project Costs                          95.10         107.80
                       Total Financing Required                              95.10         107.80
Please note that overall the project cost was 113.32% more than at appraisal.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                           Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                     ICB              NCB                    2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                                Other
1. Works                                     52.72              6.28             0.00          0.00       59.00
                                           (25.91)             (3.27)            (0.00)        (0.00)    (29.18)
2. Goods                                      4.98              0.00             0.00          0.00        4.98
                                            (2.92)             (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)     (2.92)
3. Services                                   0.00              0.00             0.47          0.00        0.47
Engineering Design                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.23)        (0.00)     (0.23)
Projects
4. Management and                             0.00              0.00             2.52          0.00        2.52
Supervision
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.29)        (0.00)     (1.29)
5. Financial Advisory                         0.00              0.00             0.99          0.00        0.99
service                                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.47)        (0.00)     (0.47)
6. System Works                              25.69              0.00             1.46          0.00       27.15
                                           (10.33)             (0.00)            (0.58)        (0.00)    (10.91)
   Total                                     83.39              6.28             5.44          0.00       95.11
                                           (39.16)             (3.27)            (2.57)        (0.00)    (45.00)




                                                            - 33 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 51.48              0.00              0.00             14.40            65.88
                                           (25.06)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (25.06)
   2. Goods                                 6.74               0.00              0.00             0.00              6.74
                                           (5.32)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.32)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   Engineering Design                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Projects
   4. Management and                        0.00               0.00              0.70             0.00              0.70
   Supervision
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.33)            (0.00)           (0.33)
   5. Financial Advisory                    0.00               0.00              5.28             0.00              5.28
   service                                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.37)            (0.00)           (4.37)
   6. System Works                          28.25              0.00              0.93             0.00             29.18
                                           (9.52)             (0.00)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (9.92)
        Total                               86.47              0.00              6.91             14.40            107.78
                                           (39.90)            (0.00)            (5.10)            (0.00)           (45.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.

       3/ The expenditures for Services Engineering Design Projects are included in Works, System Works and Management
       and Supervision.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1) Infrastructure and          40.21        45.73         0.00       39.27         59.28      0.00       97.7     129.6      0.0
Equipment Investment
2) Air Quality                  4.33         3.85         0.00        5.32         2.98       0.00       122.9     77.4      0.0
3) Institutional and Policy     0.47         0.53         0.00        0.41         0.52       0.00       87.2      98.1      0.0
Development
Total                          45.01        50.11                    45.00         62.78                 100.0    125.3




                                                           - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Barra Funda-Roosevelt (CPTM)
PROJECT  CALENDAR                DIRECT BENEFITIS                      EXTERNALITIES       TOTAL
 YEAR       YEAR                     (in 000 US$)                        (in 000 US$)     BENEFITS
                                                                                            (B)
                     Travel Operating    Road        Bus   Investments Accident   Air
                      Time    Cost     Maintenance
                                      Cost Savings  System which will Savings   Pollution
                    Savings  Savings                 Cost  be avoided            Savings
                                                   Savings
    1       2000       0        0          0          0        0         0         0         0
    2       2001       0        0          0          0        0         0         0         0
    3       2002       0        0          0          0        0         0         0         0
    4       2003       0        0          0          0        0         0         0         0
    5       2004    714,980 306,707      693        17,176     0       34,773    95,827 1,170,154
    6       2005    729,279 312,841      707        17,519     0       35,468    97,743 1,193,557
    7       2006    743,865 319,098      721        17,869     0       36,177    99,698 1,217,428
    8       2007    758,742 325,480      735        18,227     0       36,901    101,692 1,241,777
    9       2008    773,917 331,990      750        18,591     0       37,639    103,726 1,266,612
   10       2009    789,395 338,629      765        18,963     0       38,392    105,800 1,291,945
   11       2010    805,183 345,402      780        19,343     0       39,160    107,916 1,317,783
   12       2011    821,287 352,310      796        19,729     0       39,943    110,075 1,344,139
   13       2012    837,712 359,356      812        20,124     0       40,742    112,276 1,371,022
   14       2013    854,467 366,543      828        20,526     0       41,556    114,522 1,398,442
   15       2014    871,556 373,874      844        20,937     0       42,388    116,812 1,426,411
   16       2015    888,987 381,352      861        21,356     0       43,235    119,148 1,454,939
   17       2016    906,767 388,979      879        21,783     0       44,100    121,531 1,484,038
   18       2017    924,902 396,758      896        22,218     0       44,982    123,962 1,513,719
   19       2018    943,400 404,693      914        22,663     0       45,882    126,441 1,543,993
   20       2019    962,268 412,787      932        23,116     0       46,799    128,970 1,574,873
   21       2020    981,514 421,043      951        23,578     0       47,735    131,549 1,606,371
   22       2021  1,001,144 429,464      970        24,050     0       48,690    134,180 1,638,498
   23       2022  1,021,167 438,053      989        24,531     0       49,664    136,864 1,671,268
   24       2023  1,041,590 446,814      1,009      25,022     0       50,657    139,601 1,704,693
   25       2024  1,062,422 455,750      1,029      25,522     0       51,670    142,393 1,738,787
 Present          4,854,027 2,082,247 4,702.91 116,606         0       236,072 650,570 7,944,226
 Value




                                               - 35 -

Barra Funda - Roosevelt (CPTM)
PROJECT CALENDAR                            COST (in 000 US$)                  BENEFITS
  YEAR         YEAR      Investments Wages       Operating Other Cost TOTAL     MINUS
                           Costs       &            and              COSTS (C)  COSTS
                                     Salaries   Maintenance                       (B-C)

                                                   Cost
     1         2000        2,042        0            0         0       2,042     -2,042
     2         2001        18,213       0            0         0      18,213    -18,213
     3         2002        33,026       0            0         0      33,026    -33,026
     4         2003        11,448    7,292         2,784     3,183    24,708    -24,708
     5         2004        21,897    7,438         2,840     3,247    35,422    1,134,732
     6         2005           0      7,587         2,897     3,312    13,796    1,179,762
     7         2006           0      7,739         2,954     3,378    14,071    1,203,357
     8         2007           0      7,893         3,014     3,446    14,353    1,227,424
     9         2008           0      8,051         3,074     3,515    14,640    1,251,972
    10         2009           0      8,212         3,135     3,585    14,933    1,277,012
    11         2010           0      8,377         3,198     3,657    15,231    1,302,552
    12         2011           0      8,544         3,262     3,730    15,536    1,328,603
    13         2012           0      8,715         3,327     3,805    15,847    1,355,175
    14         2013           0      8,889         3,394     3,881    16,164    1,382,279
    15         2014           0      9,067         3,462     3,958    16,487    1,409,924
    16         2015           0      9,248         3,531     4,037    16,817    1,438,123
    17         2016           0      9,433         3,601     4,118    17,153    1,466,885
    18         2017           0      9,622         3,673     4,201    17,496    1,496,223
    19         2018           0      9,814         3,747     4,285    17,846    1,526,147
    20         2019           0      10,011        3,822     4,370    18,203    1,556,670
    21         2020           0      10,211        3,898     4,458    18,567    1,587,804
    22         2021           0      10,415        3,976     4,547    18,938    1,619,560
    23         2022           0      10,624        4,056     4,638    19,317    1,651,951
    24         2023           0      10,836        4,137     4,730    19,703    1,684,990
    25         2024        -4,331    11,053        4,220     4,825    15,766    1,723,021
  Present                 62,736.43 55,478.69    21,180.55 24,219.44 163,615.12 7,780.612
   Value

                                                            EIRR=               252.18%
                                                            NPV @      10%      7,780,612
                                                            B/C @      10%        48.55

                                                           Benef PV @  10%      7,944,227
                                                           Cost PV @   10%      163,615




                                             - 36 -

Roosevelt-Barra Funda (CPTM)
                                                                                 Economic Analysys
                                                                        Present Value of Flows (in million US$)
Benefits:
   Travel Time Savings                                                                 4,854.03
   Operating Costs Savings                                                             2,082.25
   Road Maintenance Cost Savings                                                           4.70
   Bus System Cost Savings                                                              116.61

Externalities:
   Accident Savings                                                                     236.07
   Air Pollution Savings                                                                650.57

Costs:
   Investments Costs                                                                     62.74
   Operating and Maintenance Costs                                                      100.88

   Net Present Value (at 10%)                                                          7,780.61
   Rate of Return                                                                      252.18%

Overall Risk:
   Probability that NPV <0 is negligible

Main Assumptions:
   Discount Rate = 10%
   Growth in demand = 2% after year 2000

Switching Values:
   Value of Time and Operational Costs Savings                         110.32%        lower
   Operating Costs                                                     7712.84%       higher
   Incremental Traffic                                                  97.94%        lower
   Construction Costs                                                12402.06%        higher

             Nature of Benefits:
               Travel Time Savings
               Operating Cost Savings
               Road Maintenance Cost Savings
               Bus System Cost Savings

            Main Beneficiaries:
            ·       Users of public transport who are primarily low-income households. Specifically:
                   For Travel Time Savings - All users of urban transport and public transport
            ·       For Operating Cost Savings - Mainly bus owners and cars owners
            ·       For Road Maintenance Cost Savings - The State and São Paulo Municipality
            ·       For Bus System Cost Savings - The bus owners



                                                              - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/11/1993                7    SR. TRANSPORT PLANNER
                                             (1); RAILWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             METRO INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SIGNALLING
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AUTOMATIC
                                             FARE COLLECTION (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/06/1993                8    SR. TRANSPORT
                                             PLANNER (1);RAILWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             COUNSEL (1); METRO
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1); METRO
                                             TRAFFIC CONTROL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              07/08/1998                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S



              09/30/1998                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

              03/23/1999                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

              06/09/1999                2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

              06/09/1999                2    PR. TRANSPORT SPECIALI           S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             CONSULTANT (1)



              12/08/1999                1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S



                                              - 38 -

12/08/1999    2 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);    S    S
                TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)



07/14/2000    3 PR. TRANSPORT SPECIALI       S    S
                (1); FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1)

10/10/2000    2 PRINCIPAL TRANSPORT SP       S    S
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1)

01/31/2001    2 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST       S    S
                (1); FINANCIAL MGMT.
                SPECIALIST (1)

03/08/2001    2 LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL       S    S
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1)

08/15/2001    2 LEAD TRANSP. SPEC (1);       S    S
                FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC (1)

04/05/2002    1 TASK MGR. & TRANSP. SP (1)   S    S

10/30/2002    2 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);    S    S
                INFRASTRUCTURE (1)

03/21/2003    3 LEAD TRANSP. SPECIALIS       S    S
                (1); FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC.
                (1); DISBURSEMENT
                ANALYST (1)

07/14/2003    2 LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL       S    S
                (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1)

09/29/2003    1 LEAD TRANSP. SPECIALIS (1)   S    S

12/23/2003    1 LEAD TRANSPORT SPECIAL       S    S
                (1)

04/13/2004    2 TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);    S    S
                INFRSTRUCTURE ENG. CON
                (1)

10/14/2004    1 TEAM TASK LEADER (1)         S    S




                - 39 -

 ICR
               12/2004                2     LEAD TRANSPORT                    S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            10.4                           23.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   5.8                        42.34
  Supervision                           80.7                        305.63
  ICR                                   5.48                         40.01
  Total                              102.38                         410.98




                                            - 40 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 42 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




The following document used for the preparation of this ICR are on file:

Project Documents
l Project Appraisal Report (PAD)
l Legal Agreements
l Project Supervision Reports (PSRs)
l Aide-Memoires
l Mission Reports on CD ROM prepared by the Borrower


Other Background Information
l Information on www.icentro.com.br
l PITU 2020 Integrated Urban Transport Plan, Summary, 2000, by Government of the State of São
   Paulo - State Secretariat for Metropolitan Transport
l O Futuro da Zona Sul está entrando nos Trilhos, CPTM 2002
l São Paulo nos trilhos do desenvolvimento. Projeto Integrado Centro, CPTM
l São Paulo Interligado, O Plano de Transporte Público Urbano em Implentação na Gestão 2001-2004,
   Prefeitura do Município de São Paulo, Secretaria Municipal de Transportes, São Paulo Transporte
   S.A., Companhia de Engenharia de Tráfego, Interligado, October 2004
l CPTM, Pesquisa impacto de implantação do Expresso Leste - Opinião dos usuários habituais da Linha
   E, Assessoria de Comunicação Social - ACS / CSK.




                                                 - 43 -

- 44 -

