Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4312-BR
Loan Agreement
(São Paulo Integrated Urban Transport Project - Barra 
Funda-Roosevelt Link/Integração Centro)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF SÃO PAULO
Dated December 7, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4312-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF SÃO PAULO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
(d)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CETESB" means Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental, the 
Borrower’s pollution control company;
(b)
"Concession Contract" means any of the contracts, expected to be entered 
into between the Borrower and a Concessionaire (as hereinafter defined), to govern the 
concession to be awarded to such Concessionaire (as hereinafter defined) to operate, 
manage and maintain the CPTM’s System (as hereinafter defined) or any of its lines;
(c)
"Concessionaire" means any of the corporations to which the Borrower 
intends to award the concession to operate, manage and maintain the CPTM’s System (as 
hereinafter defined) or any of its lines pursuant to the terms of the Concession 
Contract;
(d)
"CPTM" means Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos, the Borrower’s 
metropolitan train company;
(e)
"CPTM’s System" means the railway network currently operated and managed 
by CPTM, comprising the following six lines: (a) Lines A (Jundiaí-Barra Funda) and D 
(Barra Funda-Rio Grande da Serra); (b) Lines B (Amador Bueno - Julio Prestes) and C 
(Osasco-Jurubatuba); and (d) Lines E (Mogi (Estudantes) - Roosevelt) and F (Calmon 
Viana - Roosevelt);
Page  3
(f)
"PCU" means Project Coordination Unit, the unit referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"PIU" means Project Implementation Unit, the unit referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(h) 
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated March 3, 1998, 
delivered by the Borrower’s Secretary of Metropolitan Transport to the Bank, setting 
forth the indicators and targets to be used in monitoring the progress of the 
implementation of the Project and in the evaluation of its results;
(i)
"RTCC" means Regional Transport Coordination Commission, the urban 
transport entity for the SPMR (as hereinafter defined) established on March 26, 1997 
pursuant to a letter dated April 14, 1998 jointly issued by the Borrower and the 
Municipality of São Paulo, sponsored by the Borrower and expected to include all the 
municipalities which are part of the SPMR (as hereinafter defined);
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"SPMR" means São Paulo Metropolitan Region, an area comprising the 
following municipalities of the Borrower: Arujá, Barueri, Biritiba-Mirim, Cajamar, 
Caieiras, Carapicuiba, Cotia, Diadema, Embú, Embú-Guaçu, Ferraz de Vasconcelos, 
Francisco Morato, Franco da Rocha, Guararema, Guarulhos, Itapevi, Itaquaquecetuba, 
Itapecerica da Serra, Jandira, Juquitiba, Mairiporã, Mauá, Mogi das Cruzes, Osasco, 
Pirapora do Bom Jesus, Poá, Ribeirão Pires, Rio Grande da Serra, Salesópolis, Santa 
Isabel, Santana do Parnaiba, Santo André, São Bernardo do Campo, São Caetano do Sul, 
São Lourenço da Serra, São Paulo, Suzano, Taboão da Serra and Vargem Grande Paulista;
(l)
"STMSP" means Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes Metropolitanos, the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Metropolitan Transport; 
(m)
"Subproject" means a set of specific investment activities under Part C 
of the Project; and
(n)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of forty five million dollars 
($45,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
Page  4
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part A  of the Project, cause CETESB to carry out Part B of the Project, and cause 
CPTM to carry out Part C of the Project, pursuant to the Subsidiary Agreement; all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, environmental, and transportation practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of regulating their respective responsibilities under 
the Project, the Borrower, CPTM and CETESB shall enter into an agreement satisfactory 
to the Bank (the Subsidiary Agreement).  The Borrower shall exercise its rights and 
comply with its obligations under such agreements, in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and 
except as the Bank otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, 
Page  5
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause CPTM to:
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
unit (the PIU) within CPTM with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory 
to the Bank and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for 
the purposes of assisting CPTM in the carrying out of its responsibilities under the 
Project, such assistance to include, inter alia, the following Project-related 
responsibilities: (i) procurement and disbursements; and (ii) monitoring, evaluation 
and reporting; (iii) the PIU to be headed at all times by a coordinator with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
who shall report directly to the President of CPTM; 
(b)
not later than 120 days after the Effective Date, put into effect a 
monitoring and information system for the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include information on the indicators and targets set forth in the annex to the 
Project Monitoring Letter;
(c)
in the event the Concession Contract shall have entered into effect, 
promptly establish and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
division in charge of managing the non-concessioned assets of CPTM with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and with staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications;
(d)
without limitation upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 of 
the General Conditions: (i) in the months of May and November of each year during 
Project implementation, furnish to the Borrower and the Bank reports on the progress 
in the implementation of the Project during the previous six months, which shall take 
into consideration the indicators and targets set forth in the annex to the Project 
Monitoring Letter, and to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request (including information on the activities of the RTCC); and (ii) in 
the months of June and December of each year during Project implementation, hold 
reviews jointlywith the Borrower and the Bank on the progress of the Project and the 
attainment of its objectives (the review to take place in December of the year 2000 to 
be the mid-term review), such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in 
subparagraph (i) above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action 
which shall have been agreed upon by CPTM, the Borrower and the Bank during such 
reviews, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of 
its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed 
upon during such reviews; and
(e)
participate in any of the reviews referred to in Section 3.08 (i) of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
unit (the PCU) within the STMSP with responsibilities, structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, for the purposes of assisting the STMSP in the coordination and 
supervision of the Project, the PCU to be headed at all times by a coordinator with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
who shall report directly to the Secretary of STMSP; 
(b)
provide the information for the reports referred to in Section 3.03 (d) 
(i) of this Agreement and participate in the reviews referred to in Section 3.03 (d) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(c)
(i) prior to entering into a Concession Contract or Contracts, as the 
case may be, carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an 
environmental audit and safety assessment of the operations and maintenance of CPTM’s 
System, and, promptly thereafter, furnish such audit and assessment for the Bank’s 
comments; and (ii) ensure that the Concession Contract or Contracts, as the case may 
be, shall provide that CPTM will be responsible for any environmental liabilities 
resulting from the transferred services, which may be unknown at the time of the 
signing of the Concession Contract or contracts, as the case may be, and cannot be 
Page  6
attributed to a given concessionaire due to the concessionaire’s action or omission;
(d)
(i) make available to CPTM, unless the Concession Contract or Contracts, 
as the case may be, enters into and remains in effect, funds in amounts sufficient to 
cover the difference between CPTM’s working costs and operating revenues; and (ii) 
ensure, unless the Concession Contract (or Contracts, as the case may be) enters into 
effect, that CPTM’s maintenance budget allocations are adequate to permit the CPTM’s 
System to comply with the performance targets set forth in part B of the annex to the 
Project Monitoring Letter;
(e)
not later than December 31, 2001, furnish to the Bank, for comments, a 
review of the Borrower’s existing environmental inspection-maintenance program of 
vehicles, and thereafter, take into account the Bank’s comments thereon, during the 
implementation of such program; 
(f)
carry out a financial, institutional and technical plan for the 
integration of the SPMR bus system with the operations of CPTM’s System, in respect of 
the inter-municipal bus system, in accordance with its own terms; and
(g)
maintain until the completion of the Project, a regional transport 
coordination commission (the RTCC) with adequate responsibilities, composition and 
functions for the purpose of, inter alia, serving as a forum for coordination and 
consultation on matters related to transportation issues of the SPMR.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall comply, or cause to be complied, during Project 
implementation, with the targets set forth in part B of the annex to the Project 
Monitoring Letter.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than sixty days after the Effective Date, issue a request for 
proposals, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, related to the study 
referred to in Part A.1 of the Project, such request for proposals to be in accordance 
with, inter alia, Section 2.8 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (ii) not later than 
May 31, 2000 furnish to the Bank for comments such study; 
(b)
not later December 31, 2000 or when disbursements from the Loan Account 
have reached the amount equivalent to $25,000,000, whichever is earlier, issue the 
pre-qualification bidding documents for the concession of the operation, management 
and maintenance of at least one of the lines of the CPTM’s System, after taking into 
account the Bank’s comments on such documents; and
(c)
not later than March 31, 2001 issue the bidding documents for the 
concession of the operation, management and maintenance of at least one of the lines 
of the CPTM’s System.
Section 3.07. If, by not later than December 31, 2001, and without limitation 
upon the provisions of Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the concession of the 
operation, management and maintenance of at least one of the lines of the CPTM’s 
System shall have not been awarded and the respective Concession Contract shall have 
not been entered into, the Borrower shall:
(a)
issue revised pre-qualification bidding documents for the concession of 
the operation, management and maintenance of at least one of the lines of the  CPTM’s 
System, after taking into account the Bank’s comments on such documents; and 
(b)
not later than March 31, 2002, issue the bidding documents for the 
concession of the operation, management and maintenance of one of the lines of the 
CPTM’s System.
Section 3.08. If, as a result of the carrying out of the concession process 
described in Sections 3.06 or 3.07 of this Agreement any of the following events shall 
have occurred: (a) after the period stipulated in the pre-qualification bidding 
documents, no candidates for the concession are pre-qualified; or (b) the concession 
of the operation, management and maintenance of at least one of the lines of the 
CPTM’s System shall have not been awarded and the respective Concession Contract shall 
have not been entered into; or (c) once the Concession Contract is in effect, such 
Concession Contract, or any provision thereof, is assigned, amended, abrogated, waived 
or failed to be enforced by the Borrower so as to affect, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, the Borrower’s ability to accomplish the purposes of this Agreement the 
Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
hold a review with the Bank and CPTM for the purposes of 
evaluating the concession process of the operations, management 
and maintenance of the CPTM’s System and, promptly thereafter, 
implement the recommendations agreed during such review; and
(ii)
furnish to the Bank a plan describing the Borrower’s strategy to 
substantially reduce its participation in the operations and 
management of the CPTM’s System, such plan to include, inter alia, 
and, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, the Borrower’s 
proposed actions for the purposes of contracting the provision of 
the following services: (A) maintenance of rolling stock; and (B) 
collection of fares; and promptly thereafter, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement, 
implement such plan after taking into account the Bank’s comments 
thereon.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  8
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CPTM or for the suspension of 
its operations before the completion of the Project and no other arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made by the Borrower to ensure the timely 
completion of the Project and the attainment of its objectives.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CETESB or for the suspension of 
its operations before the completion of the Project and no other arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made by the Borrower to ensure the timely 
completion of the Project and the attainment of its objectives.
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, 
it is understood that, if any of the events specified in paragraph (b) above shall 
have occurred, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures 
incurred by CETESB for Part B of Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
That the Subsidiary Agreement has become effective; 
(b)
that the PCU and the PIU have been established and their respective 
coordinators have been appointed; and
(c)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor’s 
Central Bank. Central Bankof Brazil
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Guarantor’s Central BankCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 6.03. The date March 7, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
Page  9
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado dos
   Negócios da Fazenda
Avenida Rangel Pestana 300 - 5º andar
01017-000 São Paulo, S.P.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Secretaria de Estado dos Transportes Metropolitanos
Av. Paulista, 402 - 15º andar
CEP 0130-903 São Paulo, S.P.
Brazil
Companhia Paulista de Trens Metropolitanos
Av. Paulista, 402 - 5º andar
CEP 0130-903 São Paulo, S.P.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of São Paulo, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
STATE OF SÃO PAULO
By /s/ Mário Covas 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent
to be Financed
(1)
Works under Part C of
the Project:
Page  10
(a) Subprojects (except
   21,000,000 60%
under Part C.2 (d) and
C.3 of the Project)
(b) Subproject for Part
      148,000 50%
C.2 (d) of the Project
(c) Subprojects for Part
   10,400,000 60%
C.3 of the Project
(2)
Works under Part B of
    2,752,000 50%
the Project
(3)
Goods
    2,500,000 100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(4)
Consultants' services
    1,700,000 50%
and training
(5)
Unallocated
    6,500,000
TOTAL
   45,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of 
$4,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 1,  1997 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement, 
whichever is later.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing 
less than $350,000 equivalent (other than the first two contracts for goods to be 
awarded); (ii) works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent (other than the first 
contract for works to be awarded, and the contract for works required for the 
construction of the Roosevelt Operational Control Center); (iii) services of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services of 
individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) finance infrastructure and equipment 
which are critical to the physical integration between the two existing rail suburban 
systems of the Borrower and between them and the Borrower’s subway system; (b) 
improving the level of service provided by CPTM by enhancing the participation of the 
private sector in its management and operation; and (c) contribute towards the 
reduction of noise and pollution from transport sources in the SPMR.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional and Policy Development
Provision of technical assistance in the implementation of the institutional and 
policy reforms undertaken in connection with SPMR’s rail transportation sector, 
including activities related to concession and management of rail transportation 
Page  11
services, as follows:
1.
provision of assistance through the preparation of a study including the bidding 
documents (pre-qualification bidding documents; bidding documents and draft concession 
contract) to be used in the concession process, such documentation to cover the 
following areas: (a) institutional and organizational arrangements including CPTM’s 
role and organization after the concession takes place; (b) preparation of an 
investment plan; (c) evaluation and determination of operating subsidies, if any; (d) 
valuation and identification of the assets to be included in the concession; (e) human 
resource-related issues such as transfer of personnel and pension benefits; (f) legal 
and administrative aspects of the concession; and (g) proposal for the establishment 
of the most adequate entity to overview concession of metropolitan transport services.
2.
Provision of project management consultants.
3.
Carrying out of technical engineering studies in railway signaling and 
telecommunications.
4.
Provision of consultants’ services to support the supervision of the investments 
described in Part C of the Project.
Part B:
Air Quality
Construction of a vehicle emissions and noise laboratory, including provision of 
goods required for the operation thereof.
Part C:
Infrastructure and Equipment
Improvement of the infrastructure and equipment of CPTM’s System through:
1.  Permanent way works, which include: (a) the construction of a track (N°. 4) 
between Roosevelt and Barra Funda stations; (b) the construction of a rail link 
between track N°. 3 and 4 of Lines A/D and track lines J and I from Line E; (c) the 
construction of one auxiliary track line for the long-distance trains at Barra Funda, 
and its linkage with track N°. 1 of Lines A/D at the same station; (d) the 
construction of a rail link between tracks N°. 1 and 2 of Line B with track N°. 1 of 
Lines A/D, between Barra Funda and Água Branca stations; (e) the construction of  a 
parking/marshaling yard for the unit trains at Água Branca stations; and (f) the 
rehabilitation of track N°. 3 and minor improvements on adjacent tracks between 
Roosevelt and Água Branca stations.
2.  Civil works, which include: (a) at the Luz Station, the construction of two 
underground pedestrian passages to facilitate the access from the subway station and 
Caspar Líbero avenue and Luz square passengers to suburban trains and bus lines, 
including the construction of a new mezzanine and the installation of 14 automatic 
escalators and 3 elevators for handicapped passengers, and the provision of 
illumination points; (b) at the Brás/Roosevelt Station, tracks rearrangement, 
construction of platforms and mezzanine, including the mechanical escalators and 
elevators for handicapped passengers; (c) at the Barra Funda Station, installation of 
elevators for the handicapped passengers, and turnstiles rearrangements; and (d) 
construction of a building for the Barra Funda Operational Control Center.  
3.  System works, which include: (a) installation of signaling systems over the track 
lines on the rail link designed to: (i) extend the Eastern line from Roosevelt 
Terminal to Barra Funda Station (the new terminal station); and (ii) provide such 
segment with the necessary equipment to reach a theoretical headway of 2.5 minutes 
(real time of 3 minutes); (b) construction of a new traffic control center for the 
Barra Funda-Brás segment; (c) installation of automatic train stopping/speed control 
signaling devices on the electric multiple units; (d) implementation of a new traffic 
supervision center to be located at the Barra Funda Operational Control Center, for 
the monitoring of all CPTM lines; (e) installation of the catenary over the track 
lines on the Barra Funda-Roosevelt rail link and Água Branca yard; (f) illumination of 
the new yard at Água Branca and the relocation of some existing lamp posts on the rail 
link segment; (g) installation of automatic turnstiles for proper passenger control 
and tariff integration at the Stations of the Barra Funda-Tatuapé segment of Line E; 
and (h) completion of the Roosevelt Operational Control Center.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  12
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
2,250,000
beginning October 15, 2003
through April 15, 2013
_______________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Section 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum applicable to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than  thirteen years 
1.00
before maturity 
Page  13
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$5,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Pre-qualification
Bidders for works shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(d)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent and less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost more than $350,000 equivalent and 
less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$6,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods 
and works under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the 
Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and works to be 
undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank 
in each case; 
Page  14
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or less per contract may be 
procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Works required for completing the construction of the Roosevelt Operational 
Control Center, which must be procured from a particular contractor as a condition of 
a performance guarantee and costing $1,300,000 equivalent or less, may, with the 
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid 
for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured under 
Part B.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods and the first 
contract for works, to be procured under Part C.1 of this Section;  the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; and
(b) With respect to the contract procured under Part C.4 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract, prior to its execution, and the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 
2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D.
Part E:
Other
For purposes of the Guidelines, the term custom duties and other import taxes 
includes the Guarantor’s Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
(Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da Marinha Mercante - AFRMM), established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 1,142 of December 30, 1970, as amended on 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of 
the Bank, may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Page  15
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services related to the supervision of works and the preparation of engineering 
design studies, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services related to the preparation of institutional, policy and engineering 
studies (other than engineering design studies), estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
Page  16
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the consultants to be 
employed under each such contract shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and 
approval.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equivalent to or exceed $8,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  17
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
