 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14888

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 01/19/2016

               Country: Tanzania
             Project ID: P102262                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Zanzibar Basic               Project Costs (US$M):                      48.5                 51.1
                         Education
                         Improvement Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      42.0                 43.3
      Sector Board:      Education                    Cofinancing (US$M):                         0                    0

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 04/24/2007
                                                              Closing Date:           07/31/2013            11/30/2013
          Sector(s):      Secondary education (66%); Tertiary education (23%); Central government administration
                          (9%); Primary education (2%)
         Theme(s):        Education for all (40%); HIV/AIDS (20%); Environmental policies and institutions (20%);
                          Gender (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:             ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Judith Hahn Gaubatz       Judyth L. Twigg         Joy Behrens                IEGHD

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 4), the objective of the project was as follows:

        To improve completion in lower secondary education (the first four years ) with successful performance
         among students.

    The Financing Agreement (page 5) states the objective slightly differently.

        To improve lower secondary education in the islands of Zanzibar within its territory , including raising the
         rates of students successfully completing the first four years of secondary education .

    The project objective remained the same throughout the project period; however, during the project restructuring
    in April 2013, the targets for key project indicators were revised. Therefore, this review assesses the outcomes
    before and after the restructuring.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

    Note: For the costs reported below, the "appraisal" amount reflects IDA + Borrower amount; the "actual" amount
    reflects IDA only, as the ICR reported the actual Borrower contribution for the project as a whole rather than
    disaggregating by component.
   1. Increase enrollment and improve quality in secondary education through provision of infrastructure (Appraisal
   total: US$ 35.1 million (of which US$ 28.7 million IDA); Actual IDA: US$ 30.6 million): This component aimed to
   improve enrollment in secondary school and improve the learning environment. The three sub-components
   were: i) construction of new secondary schools (ten upper secondary and nine lower secondary schools); ii)
   construction of a new facility for the Benjamin William Mkapa Teacher Training College; and iii) rehabilitation of
   three secondary schools. Selection of sites for new construction were based on geographic access.

   2. Improve quality of education through teacher training, curriculum reform, and provision of learning materials
   (Appraisal total: US$ 12.1 million (of which US$ 11.3 million IDA); Actual IDA: US$ 11.9 million): This component
   aimed to improve the quality of upper primary and lower secondary education. The five sub-components were: i)
   teacher training; ii) provision of instructional materials; iii) curriculum reform; iv) science education for girls; and v)
   provision of a life skills curriculum. Activities included: in-service upgrading for current science, math, and
   English teachers; revision of the pre-service primary teacher training curriculum; provision of textbooks; revision
   of upper primary curriculum; science camps for girls; and development of a manual for a life skills curriculum.

   Project management costs were separate from the above components (Appraisal total: US$ 1.6 million (of which
   US$ 1.5 million); Actual IDA: US$ 0.8 million).

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project cost
     The actual project cost was US$ 51.1 million, compared to the appraised cost of US$ 48.5 million. The
        difference was due to favorable SDR/US$ exchange rate gains, and a higher than expected contribution
        from the Borrower.

   Financing
      The project was financed by an IDA Credit of US$ 42.0 million. Due to favorable exchange rate gains, the
       actual amount was US$ 43.3 million.

   Borrower contribution
     The Borrower provided US$ 7.8 million in counterpart funds, through tax contributions. This was higher than
       the planned amount of US$ 6.5 million.

   Dates
        April 2013: The project was restructured such that targets for key project indicators were revised and an
         additional indicator was introduced. As reported in the ICR (page 13), original target figures were unrealistic
         since one of the key policy assumptions made during project preparation - the abolishing of the exam for
         transitioning to Form III (upper secondary school) - did not materialize (the policy change is now planned to
         take place in 2015). The project closing date was extended from June 2013 to November 2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   At the time of appraisal, the gross enrollment rate at the secondary school level in Zanzibar was about 30%. Key
   challenges in secondary education included a low rate of access to schools, poor quality of education due to
   inadequate facilities, under-qualified teachers, limited supply of textbooks, and the difficult transition experience
   from primary to secondary school due to the change in language of instruction (from Kiswahili to English). Low
   participation and poor outcomes (including in English, math, and science) in secondary school represented major
   barriers to participation in the island's service sector, which comprises a significant share of GDP. The Zanzibar
   poverty reduction strategy and the education development plan (2012) emphasize increasing productivity and
   boosting educational performance. Similarly, the Bank's Joint Assistance Strategy for FY 2007-2010 and the
   Country Assistance Strategy for FY 2012-2015 identify improved access to and quality of education, including at
   the secondary level, as key outcomes.

   Relevance of the project objectives under the original targets is High.
   Relevance of the project objectives under the revised targets is also High.

b. Relevance of Design:

   The project's interventions were critical components of a plan to improve access to and completion of lower
   secondary education; however, achievement of the objective within the project period (six years) was unlikely,
   particularly for passage rates (i.e. "successful performance") among exam-takers. The time required for
   completion of the key project interventions - construction of schools and teacher training - meant that the impact
   of these interventions on students and their academic performance would not likely materialize over the time
   period set out in the project design.

   The project design remained essentially the same under the project restructuring in April 2013, although targets
   were significantly lowered. Improvements in access to and completion of lower secondary education were more
   likely to be achieved, although improved performance was less likely.

   Relevance of the project design under the original targets is Modest.
   Relevance of the project design under revised targets is also Modest.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To improve lower secondary education in the islands of Zanzibar within its territory , including raising the rates of
   students successfully completing the first four years of secondary education .

   Outputs
   Facilities
        Construction of 19 secondary schools and rehabilitation of 6 secondary schools (target: 19 new and 6
         rehabilitated schools). This construction added 16,100 student spaces, 339 classrooms, 75 science labs, 28
         computer labs, 27 libraries, and 54 staff houses. Equipment and furniture have also been provided.
        Construction of facilities for Benjamin William Mkapa Teacher Training College.

   Teacher training
        Initiation of training for 3,780 current primary and secondary school teachers in math, science, and/or
         English (target: 3,500). The originally envisaged center-based training was not carried out due to the
         potential disruptions to the school year caused by extended teacher absences for training, as well as high
         transport and food costs. The intervention was modified to school-based training with peer learning rather
         than lectures. However, as the project design planned for a multi-year training course, the training was
         started but not completed for most participants by project closing.
        Pre-service training of 325 new secondary level teachers in math and science (no target identified).
        Revision of the pre-service teacher certification curriculum.
        Study on management of teacher training.

   Curriculum and materials
        Revision of primary education curriculum.
        Provision of 213,392 primary level textbooks in mathematics, English, social science, science and Kiswahili
         (no target identified). The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) provided textbooks
         for secondary school math.
        Conducting of science camp for 300 female students (target: 100 students annually).
        Provision of life skills curriculum and training to 1,600 teachers on its use (no target identified).


   Outcomes
   Intermediate outcomes
        The pupil/classroom ratio decreased from 83/1 at baseline to 58/1 at the end of the project. This achieved
         the original target of 92/1 (this target was set based on the expectation of increased enrollment numbers
         over the project period). The ICR (Data Sheet) notes that this indicator takes into account the use of
         double-shifts in most classrooms and that without the project, the ratio would have increased to 120/1.
         However, construction of schools was completed in 2013, which means much of the decrease in
         pupil/classroom ratio occurred before increased classroom space was available, which then calls into
         question whether the construction of facilities under this project could have led to the outcome. In other
         words, attribution of this decrease to project activities is unclear.
        The percentage of secondary level teachers who meet overall qualifications increased from 59% to 79%.
         This achieved the original target of 65% (or greater).
        The percentage of secondary level teachers who meet qualifications for teaching specific subjects was as
         follows (for all, the original target was 65% or greater):
                - Mathematics: Increased from 28% to 47%.
                - Biology: Increased from 38% to 59%.
                - Chemistry: Increased from 43% to 62%.
                - Physics: Increased from 39% to 57%.
               - English: no data reported.
        The textbook/pupil ratio ranged from 1.1/1 for physics to 1.4/1 for mathematics to 1.5/1 for English and
         Kiswahili. These surpassed the target of 1/1. The figures above include the support provided by USAID for
         textbook provision.

    Completion / learning outcomes
        The proportion of students among 17-year-olds who took the completion exam at the end of lower secondary
         school increased from 27% in 2007 to 46% in 2013. This nearly achieved the revised target of 49%. The
         actual number of students increased from 5,389 in 2006 to 13,051 in 2012. This fell short of the original
         target of 24,455, but nearly met the revised target of 13,962.
        The number of students passing the exam increased from 4,897 in 2006 to 6,935 in late 2012. This fell short
         of the original target of 22,254 and the revised target of 12,705. Of these, the number of students passing
         with Division III or better decreased from 990 in 2006 to 757 in 2012. This fell short of the original target of
         4,647 and the revised target of 2,653. The ICR (page 21) reports that there was a similar declining trend in
         mainland Tanzania, and that "it appears likely that factors external to the [project] may be primary causes for
         these negative trends." More specific information on these external factors is not reported.

    Achievement of the objective is rated Modest for the original targets and Modest for the revised targets. While a
    number of outputs were implemented as planned, achievement of outcome targets was mixed, and attribution of
    reported outcomes to the project's interventions is weak given the timeline of implementation (school construction
    and teacher training were not completed until almost project closing).

5. Efficiency:

    The Project Appraisal Document (Annex 9) discusses the private and social returns to education in Zanzibar but
    does not provide an economic analysis specifically for the project.

    Almost all project activities were implemented within the original project period (with the notable exception of the
    completion of teacher training courses), with only a four month extension. Project benefits related to access to
    secondary education are considered likely to be achieved. A comparison of unit costs for two project
    interventions - classroom construction and textbook provision - across countries indicates reasonable costs,
    particularly considering likely cost increases due to implementing on an island. The cost per classroom (deflated
    to 2007 costs for comparison) for this project was US$ 34,827, compared to US$ 32,456 for similar Bank
    education projects in Eritrea and US$ 27,316 in Burundi. The cost per textbook (2007) for this project was US$
    1.77 compared to US$ 1.15 in Burundi. The ICR (page 22) also notes that adjustments were made to the project
    design to ensure benefits while containing costs, for example, eliminating construction of hostels and some staff
    housing. Project management costs were also lower (55.3% of appraisal) than expected.

    Project benefits related to learning outcomes ("successful performance") are unclear. However, given the
    relative efficiency of the provision of inputs and intermediate outcomes, the overall efficiency of the project is still
    considered Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Project under original targets - Moderately Unsatisfactory
    Relevance of the project's objectives is High, while relevance of the project's design is Modest due to significant
    shortcomings in the results chain, given the timeline of implementation of activities. Achievement of the objective
    to improve completion in lower secondary education with successful performance among students is Modest due
    to shortcomings in achievement of some outcome targets and also weak attribution of project outputs to reported
    outcomes. Efficiency is rated Substantial.

    Project under revised targets - Moderately Unsatisfactory
   Ratings are the same as above.

   According to the harmonized guidelines, the combined overall outcome rating is determined according to the
   proportion of the loan that disbursed before and after the project restructuring. As the outcome rating is the same
   for before and after the restructuring, the combined rating is also Moderately Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   While key project activities were mostly completed, the sustainability of outcomes is unclear. External donor
   support, including by the Bank, is being continued only for textbook provision. Although the government has
   indicated that budget will be provided for school maintenance, field visits by the Bank team (ICR, page 23)
   observed maintenance shortcomings such as lack of fences, unreliable provision of water for sanitation, and
   higher than expected maintenance costs due to installation of electric equipment.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project's objective was highly relevant to the needs of the country, and the planned activities were critical
   components to achieving the intended outcomes. However, a significant shortcoming in the results chain was
   the ambitious timeline for achieving intended outcomes, particularly for a government agency that had no
   prior experience with Bank projects. There were also shortcomings in project readiness, due to pressure for
   quick project approval, which the ICR (page 16) attributes to a perception that the IDA amount allocated to
   Zanzibar (US$ 42 million for a population of 1 million) was disproportionate to the amount allocated to
   mainland Tanzania (Secondary Education Project: US$ 150 million for a population of 36.5 million); therefore,
   the project needed to move forward and be "locked in" quickly before the official IDA allocation was changed.
   A Quality at Entry review conducted in June 2010 concluded that "the Bank had missed some important steps
   in the preparation process" and identified quality of entry as a core weakness of this project (ICR, page
   16-17). Risks in fiduciary capacity were appropriately identified as substantial to high; however, other
   aspects of project implementation capacity (i.e. managing multiple complex activities in the proper sequence)
   were not identified but did materialize and significantly affected the implementation timeline. A significant
   shortcoming in the M&E design was reliance on a UNESCO-supported monitoring system that was deemed
   ready for use at project appraisal but was not actually so.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team provided frequent hands-on supervision support to the project, aided by appropriate technical
   staff. Most planned activities were implemented, albeit with significant delays. The results framework, and
   the overall M&E design, were not revised until late into the project period, despite recommendations from
   Bank management. The ICR (page 25) notes, however, that as project outputs were on track for delivery
   towards the end of the project period, a restructuring of the results framework "would have been perceived as
   a merely bureaucratic exercise, which would not have made any difference [to implementation]."
   Implementation Supervision Report (ISR) ratings were largely in the satisfactory range throughout the project
   period, despite the evident shortcomings in implementation progress at the beginning of the project,
   suggesting a lack of candor. There were no financial management problems reported; however, there is no
   information reported in the ICR on compliance with procurement or safeguard policies.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory
9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

    The autonomous government of Zanzibar was highly committed to the project and supported implementation
    of project activities, albeit with significant delays. The Ministry of Finance, part of the federal government of
    Tanzania, provided the planned counterpart funds; however, the ICR (page 27) suggests that additional
    assistance would have been helpful, specifically in requesting a project preparation facility (PPF) grant for
    Zanzibar's Ministry of Education and Vocational Training (MoEVT) that could have helped to address some of
    the shortcomings in project readiness.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    Zanzibar's Ministry of Education and Vocation Training (MoEVT) was the primary implementing agency. This
    was the first IDA Credit to the government of Zanzibar in the education sector, and while the MoEVT
    demonstrated strong commitment to the project, there were significant capacity constraints that affected
    implementation progress. In addition, the MoEVT announced a mid-course shift in policy (a revision of the full
    primary school curriculum, not the upper primary school curriculum as initially planned) that affected the
    sequencing of project activities (and further exacerbated implementation delays). For example, teacher
    training for the upper primary grades was postponed until later in the project period, and textbooks based on
    the new curriculum were not ready until 2012. M&E implementation was limited due to a monitoring system
    that was not functional until late into the project period. There were no major problems reported in financial
    management, although procurement or safeguards compliance is not reported in the ICR. The Bank team
    subsequently confirmed that safeguards performance was highly satisfactory and procurement performance
    was also satisfactory.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The original M&E design had significant shortcomings. These included a disconnect between project outputs and
   intended outcomes, the latter of which were logical but unrealistic given the timeframe of the project. Original
   targets for key indicators were subsequently unrealistic. In addition, the monitoring of project progress (and
   intermediate outcomes) relied on an education management information system that the PAD (page 9) insisted
   was in "robust" form; however, the ICR (page 18) reports that this was not the case.

b. M&E Implementation:

   As reported in the ICR (page 18), the functioning of the monitoring system was a critical element of M&E but by
   the mid-term review in June 2011, data on project inputs and outputs had not been "adequately entered,
   analyzed and retrieved for the purposes of decision making." The system became more functional during the
   latter part of the project period and was able to collect data of reasonable quality.

c. M&E Utilization:

   There is no information provided on effective use of M&E.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project triggered safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary
    Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) due to construction of schools. An Environmental and Social Management
    Framework, as well as a Resettlement Policy Framework, were prepared to identify and mitigate potential issues.
    The ICR does not report on the implementation of the framework or compliance with safeguard policies, although
    the Bank team subsequently confirmed that performance was highly satisfactory.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial management: According to the ICR (page 18), adequate financial management systems were
    maintained throughout the project period, and financial reports were submitted to the Bank in a timely manner.
    Audit reports were unqualified, with only minor issues identified and subsequently addressed by the Borrower.

    Procurement: Project procurement was supported by a MoEVT tender board and a procurement management
    unit with adequate staffing. The ICR does not report on compliance with procurement procedures, although the
    Bank team subsequently confirmed there were no major unresolved issues.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    Lessons drawn from the ICR (pages 26-27), adapted by IEG:
     The formulation of a robust results chain, with an appropriate timeline, is critical for a proper assessment
    of outcomes. Although this project achieved some positive changes Zanzibar’s education, his project received
    ratings in the unsatisfactory range (efficacy and overall outcome) because the stated outcomes were not
    plausibly linked to the project outputs given the sequencing of activities and short implementation period.
    Other intermediate outcomes, more tightly linked to the project outputs, were achieved but were not included in
    the statement of objectives.
     Project restructuring that takes places too late in the project period can have negative consequences on
    policy dialogue. In the case of this project, the Borrower viewed the proposed changes as having negligible
    value and therefore did not pursue a more in-depth restructuring that might have set the stage for a more
    satisfactory outcome rating.


14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is overall satisfactory. Data and evidence were satisfactory, despite the inadequate functioning of the
    monitoring system through most of the project period. The ICR is candid about shortcomings in the project
    design and quality at entry, including offering lessons to inform future operations. However, a shortcoming is the
    lack of reporting on compliance with safeguard policies or procurement procedures.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
