                                              Documentof
                                           The WorldBank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                                Report No: 28835-BH




                                PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                         PROPOSED CREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 8.2 MILLION

                                 (US$12.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                   BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                                 FOR A

                          SECONDEMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT

                                              May 19,2004




South EastEurope Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 22,2004)
                              Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka
                                       KM1 = US$0.61
                                       US$1 = SDR0.69

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1     - December31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALMPs Active Labor Market Programs               LMIS       Labor Market Information System
ASDA  Annual Service Delivery Agreements         MTDS       MediumTermDevelopment Strategy
                                                 OECD        Organizationfor Economic
                                                             Cooperation and Development
BAC   Business Environment Adjustment            OED         Operations EvaluationDepartment
      Credit                                     PCA         Procurement Capacity Assessment
BEEPS Business Environment and Enterprise        PES         Public Employment Services
      Performance Survey                         PELRP       Pilot Emergency Labor
BH    Bosnia and Herzegovina                                 Redeployment Project
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                PTAC        PrivatizationTechnical Assistance
CFAA  Country FinancialAccountability                        Credit
      Assessment                                 PIU         Project Implementation Unit
CPPR  Country Portfolio Performance Review       POM         Project Operating Manual
DEF   DevelopmentEmploymentFund                  PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
DFID  Department for International               QER         Quality Enhancement Review
      Development, UnitedKingdom                 R E S 0     Regional Employment Service Office
EBRD  European Bank for Reconstructionand        RS          Republika Srpska
      Development                                SITAC       Social Insurance Technical
EDP   EducationDevelopmentProject                            Assistance Credit
EMSAC Economic Management Structural             SESER       Socio Economic Support, Education
      Adjustment Credit                                      and Redeployment Unit
ESO   Employment Services Office                 SESP        Second Employment Support Project
FBH   Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina       SOE         Statement of Expenditure
FMR   FinancialMonitoring Reports                SOSAC I1    Second Social Sector Adjustment
FEI   Federal Employment Institute                           Credit
GCA   General Collective Agreement               SOTAC       Social Sector Technical Assistance
ILO   InternationalLabor Organization
KM    Konvertible Marka                                      Credit
LIPI1 Local Initiatives (Microfinance) Project I1



                             Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                          CountryDirector:        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, ECCU4
                            Sector Manager:       Hermann A. Von Gersdorff, ECSHD
                         Task Team Leader:        Maniza B.Naavi. ECSHD

                                                                                       FOROFFICLALUSEONLY
                                         BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA
                                     SecondEmploymentSupportProject

                                                           CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page

  A STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
    .                                                                        ....................................................................  3
    1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................              3
    2.  Rationale for Bank involvement ......................................................................................... 4
    3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                               5

  B ROJECT DESCRIPTION
    .                                     ......................................................................................................   5
    1.  Lendinginstrument.............................................................................................................             5

    2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                             5
    3.  Project components.............................................................................................................            6
    4. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design............................................................                               7
    5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                           8

  C IMPLEMENTATION
    .                              .............................................................................................................   8
    1.  Institutionalandimplementation arrangements .................................................................                              8
    2. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomeshesults................................................................                                 10
    3.  Sustainability..................................................................................................................... 10
                   . .

    4. Potential Risks andMitigation..........................................................................................                    10
    5. Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                         11

  D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
    .                                      ....................................................................................................   12
     1 Economic andfinancial analyses .....................................................................................
     .                                                                                                                                            12
    2. Technical........................................................................................................................... 12
    3. Fiduciary........................................................................................................................... 12
    4.  Social.................................................................................................................................   13
    5. Environment...................................................................................................................... 14
    6. Safeguardpolicies.............................................................................................................             14

This documenthasa restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization                         .       .

ANNEXES:

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                  .............................................................................         15

Annex 2: Major Related ProjectsFinanced by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                     .................17
Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring                      ........................................................................        18

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description           ......................................................................................         24

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................         29

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                .................................................................................         32

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                                            .....................................   35

Annex 8: Procurement ................................................................................................................         44

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 .............................................................................        52

Annex 10: Project Preparation and Supervision                     .....................................................................       54

Annex 11:Documents inthe Project File               .................................................................................         55

Annex 12: Public Employment Services               ..................................................................................         56

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 .............................................................................        65

Annex 14: Country at a Glance        ................................................................................................          67




IBRD32760

                              BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                             SecondEmployment Support Project

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                  Europe And Central Asia
                                          ECSHD

Date: May 19,2004                              Team Leader: Maniza B.Naqvi
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos       Sectors: Other social services (100%)
Sector Manger: Hermann A. von Gersdorff        Themes: Social riskreduction (P); Social
                                               analysis and monitoring (P); Social risk
                                               mitigation (P)
Project ID: PO84596                            Environmental screeningcategory: Not
                                               Required
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguardscreeningcategory:

[ ] Loan   [XICredit    [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:

For LoandCredits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m): 12.00 million
ProDosedterms: IDA (20 Years, with 10Years grace Deriod)




ASSOCIATION
Total:                                            2.00            12.00               14.00

Borrower:
Bosnia andHerzegovina

Responsible Agencies:
Project Implementation Units inFederation of BosniaandHerzegovina and RepublikaSrpska
Antuna Branka Simica 4, Sarajevo, Bosniaand Herzegovina
Narue/byrsac 7111,Banja Luka, RepublikaSrpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina
Tel: 387-71-655-155 Fax: 387-71-655-155
pelrp@BiH.net.ba
sbogunovic@rsdef.org

                    Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m.)
FY         2005    2006   2007    2008    2009
Annual         1.o   2.0     2.0     3.0    4.0
Cumulative 1.OO.OO   3.O     5.O     8.0   12.0




                                       2

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryand sectorissues

The MediumTerm Development Strategy (MTDSPRSP)for Bosnia andHerzegovinathat had
been adoptedby the Entities (January 2004) andthe State Government (March 2004) recognizes
that an increase inemployment can be expectedmainly in the private sector and that
employment would best be addressedthrough measures for encouraging entrepreneurship and
reform across all sectors includinginthe provisionof employment services andjob brokerage.
The MTDS sets its context for the labor marketinthe implementation of vital reforms inthe
mid- term period of 2004-2005 in the public sector which would, inthe short term, cause a
reductionofjobs. The strategy for reduction of unemployment includes:

    (i)     Reform of the employment services from their current primary role as social
            insurance providers to employment services andjob brokerage and the removalof
            credit programs from employment services;
    (ii)    Increasinglabor mobility through the strengthening of the single economic space;
            removalof market fragmentation and elimination ofjob discrimination; and
    (iii)   Recognizing as employment all legitimate income earning opportunities which are
            currently relegated to the informal sector.

Insupport of this strategythe Bank has focused its support to the Government onreforming
social protection andlabor marketpolicy, furthering privatizationandimplementing
demonstrable approaches for effective income generation andjob creation measuresthrough the
adjustmentoperations of Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSACII); the Economic
Management Structural Adjustment Credit (EMSAC); the Social Sector Technical Assistance
Credit (SOTAC); andthe Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC); and investment
lendingoperations such as the PilotEmergency LaborRedeployment Project, (PELRP) andthe
SecondLocal InitiativesProject (LIP11).

Major findings of the labor market study and the experience of the PELRPconfirm that the
country's labor markets continue to experiencethe accumulatedimbalances causedby the war
and transition as well as residual rigidities of the previous system:
    >   Data on registered unemployment vastly exaggerate true prevalence of unemployment.
        Actual unemployment rate is more likely to be inthe range of 16-20percent. According
        to the 2001 labor force survey, out of the total registeredunemployed inBH, only
        slightly less than a quarter qualified as unemployed under the standarddefinition of the
        International Labor Organization and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
        Development (ILO-OECD). The rest were either employed (another quarter) or inactive
        (5 1percent). The main reason for unemployment registration appears to be access to free
        health services uponregistration;
    P Job creation andreallocation ofjobs inthe formal sector hasbeenslow particularly inthe
        RS andthe formal sector workforce hasbecome considerably older, while young workers
        have been denied access to formal sectorjobs. This has contributed to a large informal
        sector inBHwith most of informal employment, includingfor the young andwomen,


                                                   3

        taking place inthe sector of small-scale agriculture/farming (47 percent), inconstruction
        (17 percent) andinmanufacturing (9 percent). The majority of informal workers are
        employed by private employers, 28 percent are self-employed, and about one fifth are
        contributingfamily members;
        Workers in agriculture are not considered as employed;
        There i s low formal sector labor force participation while female labor force participation
        i s among the lowest inthe region and women comprise 80 percent of the most vulnerable
        unskilledworkers;
        Worker mobility has been modestdue to constraints inrelocation within andbetween
        entities and restructuring of state enterprises and housing availability;
        Despite the overall context of a stagnant labor market,private firms and agri-business
        have been muchmore dynamic in all aspectsofjob flows, includingnet employment
        growth;
        A rigidwage determination systemstands inthe way ofjob creation and worker mobility;
        and
        Taxes and contributions account for 69 percent of labor costs inFBHand52 percent in
        RS which are adisincentive for registering as employed.

Expenditures of Public Employment Services (PES) do not reflect thatjob brokerage services
andactive labor marketprogramsare the primary function of the services. Active labor market
programs constitute over 50 percent of expenditures by employment services inthe RS andless
than 30 percent of the expenditures inthe Federation. A major portionof expenditures i s on the
provision of health insuranceto the registered unemployed. Graduatesuponcompletion of
secondary or university education are eligible to register andreceive health insurance. In
additionthe PES inthe FBHallocate major portionof funds for credit programs. A functional
review of the PES concluded that these credit programs were non-poor targeted; lackingin
transparency; andad-hoc inclient identification. These so-calledcredits are actually large grants.
Credit programs, healthinsurance andcashbenefits constitute the major portionof the
employment services operations while job brokerage and A L M p s were negligibleor non-
existent. Incomeearningactivities such as agricultural work or agri-business/farming are not
considered as ajob or as employment. Farmers are therefore registered as unemployed. This is
due to the employment services orientation which to a large extent remains gearedtowards a pre-
transition economy of supplying labor to state owned enterprises.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

The Bank's involvement through the SecondEmploymentSupport Project (SESP) infurthering
the reform agendaof transforming the PES and of mitigating the affects of retrenchment i s
highly relevant with respect to both timingand substance. Beginningin2004, BHi s likely to
experience as a result of adjustment, privatizationand corporate restructuring, significant
movements inits labor market which will include substantialjob sheddinginthe corporate and
govemment sectors (the latter including, but not exclusively, defense). The proposed project
would therefore contribute significantly to the formulation and implementation of social risk
mitigation policies, which the Government i s under high pressure to establish. The SESP would
further the reform andchangeinthe employment services towards effectjob brokerage and
ALWs. The Bank has a leadrole to play inlabor market policy formulation, basedon its



                                                    4

analytical and operational work on labor markets including ALMPs and labor redeployment in
BHandinSouthEasternEurope. This work includes the experience gained underthe PELRP
which constitutes a significant portion of all ALMP experience inBH; the functional review of
the employment services conducted underthe Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
(SOTAC) andthe reform policy furtheredby the SecondSocial Adjustment Credit (SOSAC II),
as well as the micro-finance operations underthe first and the secondLocal InitiativesProjects
(LIPIandLIP11).The likelywave of retrenchmentswouldbeadirect or indirect resultof
policies supportedby other Bank operations: EMSAC for reform of public administration to
reduceits share inthe economy; PTAC for possible privatization-relatedjob losses; BAC inthe
context of strengthening the business environment is facilitating business entry, operation and
exit. Facilitatingexit through bankruptcy process would mean that some labor downsizing will
occur as a result of bankruptcy. SOSAC I1inturn provides support for the establishment of
better targetedand more efficient safety nets. The proposed operation i s fully consistent with the
objectives of the current CAS ProgressReport (No. 24978) dated October 15,2002 whose
objectives are Social Sustainability, FosteringPrivate Sector-Led Growth and Strengthening
Institutions and Governance; and, advances the objectives of the Government's recently
approved MTDS.



3. Higher levelobjectivesto which the project contributes

The project contributes to the MTDS objectives of improvinglivelihoodopportunities for the
citizens of BHand to the strengtheningof institutional capacity for this purpose includingthe
reform of social services andthe public sector.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION (ANNEX 4 AND 6)

1. Lendinginstrument
The SESPwouldbe afour year investment lendingoperation which would:

    0    repeat and buildupon successfulexperience and approachestested under the PELRPand
         would support access to income earning opportunities and employment through ALMPs
         for individuals who meet the eligibility criteria for vulnerable active job seekers; and
    0    buildthe capacity of employment service delivery bytransferring the experience gained
         underthe PERLP to employment services. The SESPwould introduce private sector
         participation inthe employment services by encouraging PES to outsource the delivery of
         ALMPs to private sector serviceproviders. The proposedproject would buildon the
         experience of the PELRPby transferring its implementation experience to the PES and
         strengtheningtheir capacity to provide a range ofjob brokerage and ALMP services.

2. Project developmentobjectiveand key indicators

    0    Provision of employment services for an estimated 10,000 people who are either recently
         retrenchedand above 45 years of age and/or those who are actively seekingjobs for two
         or more years inRS andFBH;and
    0    Furtherreform agendato bringbehavioral change andbusinesschange inthe
         employment services by focusing the PES on providing effective job brokerage services;


                                                  5

      employment assistanceprograms includingcounseling services; programs to assist the
      unemployed; analytical andinformationservices includingdisseminating labor market
      information.The SESP would use its financial resources to leverage significant non
      financial outcomes of change infocus and approaches for the employment services.


  Key indicators would include the following:

  0   the successful delivery of ALMPs andjob brokerage servicesto an estimated 10,000
      activejob seekers and most vulnerable groups of unemployed;
   0  behavorial change inemployment services through an increasedfocus onjob brokerage
      and ALMPs and a reduction of activities unrelated to employment;
   0  cleaning of registered lists from those who havejobs to the registeringand identification
      of activejob seekers;
  0   effective mediation between employers andjob seekers;
   0  establishment of proceduresandprocessesfor dissemination of timelyjob vacancies and
      labor market information;
   0  inclusionof private sector providers of ALMPs; and
   0  formal inclusionof agricultural workerslfarmers as employed.

3. Project components

The project has three components:
      (1)Provisionofjob brokerage andALMPs or employment assistanceprograms,
          includingcounseling services and programs to assist the unemployed;
      (2) Institution capacity building and technical assistance to PES; and
      (3) Project Management.

   1. Active Labor MarketProgramsandJob Brokerage Services (US$9.0 million):
      Would focus the employment services on matching employers with job vacanciesto
      appropriately skilled activejob seekers; and on providing, through private sector service
      providers, income earning opportunities to active job seekers andto the hardcore
      unemployed basedon the experienceof the PELRP. Activities under this component
      would include: counseling services; on thejob training; support for self employment in
      agriculture, agribusiness, small businesses;job fair andpublic works; businessadvisory
      services and skills enhancement training.

   2. Institution BuildingandTechnical Assistance to the PES (US$1.5 million): Would
      upgrade and strengthenthe PES capacity to provide and outsourcejob brokerage and
      employment services programs through the development of effective procedures, clear
      guidelinesandregulations, staff trainingandthe piloting of analytical labor market
      information systems includingintroducing labor market researchunits inthe Ministries
      of Labor.
   3. Project Management (US$1.5 million): Would support the project implementation and
      coordination between all partnersinthe SESP. The project would be managedby the
      Project Implementation Units (PIUs) and would include the supervision andmonitoring



                                               6

       of all components underthe project as well as the knowledge transfer to andtraining of
       participatingagencies (PES). The PELRPPIUs served as a significant source of
       competition for employment services in delivering ALMPs. The role of the PIUs as a
       competitive pressure would be maintained inthe secondproject. The PIUs would
       coordinate and informthe line ministries as well as the World Bank on project
       implementation. The PIUswould be responsible for the updating and development of
       operational procedures. The PIUs would implement the integration of all their functions
       and procedures progressively into the government institutions includingthe employment
       services, basedon the performance of these agencies duringimplementation. To this end,
       this component would finance purchaseof necessaryequipment, operating costs
       (including staff salaries) and limitedtechnical assistance (staff development program).
       Extension agents were critical to the success of the PELRP. Under the SESP the
       cantonal/regional Employment Service Offices will be requestedto nominate and appoint
       one member of their staff each to coordinate and work with the PIUs.This staff member
       would coordinate and work closely with the PIUs on project implementation and would
       be trained by the PIUstaff members who will carry out their own functions as well as
       provide training to ESO staff.


4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe projectdesign

Lessons learnedinclude: (i)   introducing behavioral change ininstitutions requires a multi
dimension carrot and stick approach and creating ways for institutions to experience first hand
for themselves the implementation of new approaches; (ii)   such an approachrequires abalance
and sequencingof projects, process and policy; nurturingmutual respect and trust for all
partners and for new and old approaches; and understandingeach inthe socio-economic context
inwhich they are or were valid; (iii) an approachincludes leveraging nonfinancial
                                      such
outcomeswith financial incentives; (iv) PELRP's demand driven approachtailored services of
job brokerage and employment basedon skills and assetsheeds assessments ofjob seekers with
employers demand for skills; (v) counseling services are not a one time input and are required
throughout the activejob seeking periodof eachbeneficiary; (vi) buildingtrust ofjob seekers
towards employers inthe private sector takes time becausejob seekers still cling to the hope that
times will revert to large state owned enterprises and assuredjobs for all; (vii) developing a
willingness to reform andchange operating procedures and behavior i s a process which takes
place over time through the demonstratedsuccess of new approaches; (viii) for individuals as
well as for institutions developing an orientation towards a business culture i s a process learned
through demonstration of success; (ix) development of capacity of the private sector to provide
timely and quality inputsincluding technical assistanceto clients inagriculture and inbusiness
was akey to successfulsupport in self employment; (x) an updated database system ofjob
brokerage and labor marketinformation i s critical for success. This includes a data base of
unemployed clients and their skills profiles; job vacancies and skill requirements; and
informationon other income earning opportunities; (xi) enthused and interested extension agents
or counselors were pivotal to the success of the project. They are central to the multidirectional
informational flow between unemployed clients, employers, other service providers and market
information database maintainers and analyzers.




                                                 7

5. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

Provisionof assistanceto a further caseloadof ex-soldiers to be demobilized in 2004 under the
SESPwas considered andrejected on the basis that the target group hadother alternative
assistancepackages and that the Bank's experience learnedunder the PELRPin delivering
employment assistancepresenteda viable means of capacity buildingand of leveraging reform
inemployment servicesinstitutions inthe country. The first project providedthe same amount of
assistanceto each beneficiary regardlessof their need. This approachwas rejected for the second
project basedon the experiencelearned inthe first project that assistancebasedon need and
eligibility would havebeen more effective. Given the nature of the target group andthe context
inwhich the first project was preparedandimplemented it was not possible to have such a
nuanced approach. The secondproject would follow an approachbasedon need and eligibility
rather than entitlement.Targeting specific areas of the country rather than the entire country was
considered butrejected on the basis that the project would have abigger impact if implemented
nationwide. Such an approach would allow for a wider demonstration effect andfor introducing
constructive pressure from within the ranks which would be more effective than working with a
pre-selectednumberof employment offices. The option suggestedby the QER panel of serving
inequal numbersthe most vulnerable activejob seekers andothers on afirst come first served
basis was considered on the rationale that it was reasonableand apragmatic approachto
implementation. The option was rejected on the basis that the project was seeking to change the
behavior of the employment services towards serving the needs of those who genuinely required
assistanceandtherefore the target group would exclusively be the most vulnerable clients who
meet certain eligibility criteria. The eligibility criteria basedon vulnerability would bejointly
decided and agreedupon yearly between the implementing partnersandthe World Bank The
secondproject (SESP) was identified on the basis of a consultation workshop heldin September
2003 with key partnersfrom the employment service, and labor and social policy specialists in
the country andin the region. The participants defined the reason and objective for the second
project as: to improve and develop labor markets and mobility by implementingreform and
scaling upthe successful experience of active labor market programs inthe country. They
defined the project's objective as: to encouragecompetitiveness for effective employment
services. Their definition of employment was anyone who earns an income. The group designed
the key feature of the project as: supporting employment through active labor market programs
such as the PELRP; eligibility criteria of need and willingness; capacity building; and
encouraging competition of institutions responsible for this inthe public and private sector. The
proposed SESPincludes all of these features.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutional andimplementationarrangements (Annex 6)
The project implementation unit of the FBH Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs (PIU SESER)
and the RS Development andEmploymentFoundation would be responsible for: the project
implementation; transparent financial management; monitoringand evaluation; counseling on
project activities; supervision of executing agencies and consultants; information sharingand
cooperation across Entities; and training of the staff of the line ministries (FBHMinistry of
Labor and Social Affairs and the RS Ministryof War Victims andLabor). PES andprivate


                                                     8

service providers, will be responsible for the execution of individual activities through service
contracts and project agreements:

  1.   Annual Service Delivery Agreement (ASDA) between PES andPIUS: PESs would be
       invited to submit their annualproposalsfor the implementation of active labor market
       interventions andjob brokerage intheir respective areadregions of responsibility. The
       proposals would include employment services activities andinstitutionalstrengthening
       and capacity buildingfor employment services delivery. The agreementswould include
       the proportion of resourcesto be contributed by the individual PES and by IDA credit for
       the implementation of the agreements. The agreementswould be signed between the
       PIUs and employment services offices in the 10cantons of the Federation and 6 regions
       of the Republika Srpska for project implementation on the basis of their submitted annual
       proposals. Inthe RS the agreements with the regional offices would be signed after the
       review and authorization by the RS Employment Office.
  ..
 11.   Contracts between private service providers and PIUS,acting on behalf of employment
       services basedon their annual proposals, for activities with general benefits (such as
       market assessments, beneficiary assessments or pre-discharge orientation) will be
       awarded on the basis of consultant's qualifications.

 111.
 ...   Tripartite contracts would be signedbetween PIUs, respective PES and qualified private
        service providers for employment support and on-the-job/apprenticeshiptraining. The
       PKJsand PESs through their employment officers andpublic advertising would contact
       reliable prospective providers (owners of businesses)to identifyjob/apprenticeship
        openings intheir firms. Potential employers and service providers are expectedto
       contact PESs and submit proposals (which would include number of months of training;
       number ofjob-seekers to be trained; fee for training; monthly stipend for eachjob seeker
        and small investment for improvement of business). The PIUs will be contractual parties
        duringthe first two years of the project implementation. The possibility of fully
        transferring responsibility for these activities to the PES level will be considered during
        the mid-term review of the project.
 iv.    Tripartitecontracts would be signedbetween PIUs, respective PES and private service
        providers for supporting activejob and income seekers start up or improve their self
        employment activities (including self-employment in agriculture). The PIUs will be
        contractual parties duringthe first two years of the project implementation. The
        possibilityof fully transferring responsibility for these activities to the PES level will be
        consideredduringthe mid-termreview of the project.

  V.    Contracts would be signed between PIUs, PESs and self employment in agriculture
        beneficiaries which would stipulate that the agriculture inputdassets providedto the
        individuals such as livestock, greenhouses, multicultivators would becomethe
        beneficiaries' property at the end of the first year of productive use of such assets.
 vi.    Those providers who have been verified as reliable would be addedto a roster and
        database of service providers andemployers to be updated regularly. Job-seekersand
        income earningopportunity seekers interestedin a particular service would be able to
        choose those among the service providers and employers who would meet their needs
        best. The employers and service providers will be paidon the basis of monitorable
        triggers for performance and completed outputs.


                                                   9

2. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomes/results

The project outcomes focus on change of processesandbehaviour through a demonstration
affect and actions of employment services over the course of the project life-time. The project
success inmeeting its proposed outcomeshinge upon a strong monitoring andevaluation system
which will allow for systematic monitoring, evaluation andreporting on a regularbasis on
project and process outcomes to policy makers. The goal of this i s to: (i)  influence policy
towards shifting available resourcesat the employment serviceslevelfrom credit programsto
transparent employment services delivery andjob brokerage; and (ii)       transfer social insurance
disbursementssuch as health insurance, pension payments and cashbenefits from the
employment servicesto more appropriate agencies andthereby also accurately reflect the
unemployment situation inthe country as incentives for registering as unemployed are reduced.

3. Sustainability

The project seeks to introduce reform and change inthe employment services inBHby creating
a means for the employment institutions to test new approaches for themselvesandinthe process
to provide short and medium term employment for 10,000 individuals andtheir families. The
sustainability of the project therefore lies inits ability to introduce change andhave it accepted
by employment services with commitment from themtechnically and financially to support it,
thereby ensuringthat the changei s institutionalized. A highownership within the employment
services and the Government for the design of the project i s an indicator that the project may
secure sustainablechange andreform.

4. Potential Risksand Mitigation

Resistanceto Reform: The bureaucracies inthe PES couldresist the project. To mitigate this,
proposals were invitedby the PIUs and submittedby PESs (cantonal andregional offices) by
March 31,2004. These proposals form the basis for PES participation underthe project. The
submission of these proposals duringthe preparation phase of the SESP has servedto buildand
strengthenthe working partnership between the PES and the PIUs.These also provide aclear
understandingof how PES view their roleindeliveringjob brokerage andALMP services.

Political interference: The PELRPfaced political and external pressure for increasingits target
population but was easily able to rectify this since there was an agreementto serve only those
beneficiaries who hadbeen demobilized underthe Madrid Agreement (1998). The second
project has a similar prior agreementat negotiations which allows for an understanding of target
groups. Inaddition, the independenceof the PIUsto carry out financial management and
procurement functions i s vital for the smooth and transparent implementation of the program.

Counterpart financing: has remained a chronic problem inthe PELRPimplementation, the
likelihoodof the continuation of this probleminthe secondproject i s beingaddressedthrough
cost sharing with Employment offices. This approach would create meaningfulcost sharing and
ownership.




                                                   10

Financial management: The Project is considered a moderaterisk operation for the following
reasons: (i)
           no prior experience inimplementing Bank-financed projects by ESO/RESOs;
(ii)
   reliance on ESO/RESO's own funds for providingcounterpart funds; (iii) financial
                                                                             low
management capacity inESORESOs; and (iv) lack of timely and adequate counterpart funds
from entity governments. These risks are considered as manageabledue to the various risk-
mitigation measurestaken. (See Annex 7 for full description of risk mitigation measures).

5. Loadcredit conditionsand covenants

Conditions of Effectiveness
   a) A legal opinion satisfactory to IDA has been delivered to the Association to the effect
       that the DCA has been duly authorized or ratifiedby and i s legally bindingupon the
       Borrower in accordance with its terms;
   b) A project Agreement has beenexecutedon behalf of the Association and an Entity on
       terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
   c) A legal opinion satisfactory to IDA has been delivered to the Association to the effect
       that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratifiedby the Entity concerned
       and i s legally bindingon said Entity in accordance with its terms;
   d) For the Entity that has met the above two precedingconditions:

       0   A Subsidiary Credit Agreement has beenexecutedon behalf of the Borrower andsaid
           entity, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;

       0   A legal opinion satisfactory to IDA has been delivered to the Association to the effect
           that the Subsidiary Credit Agreement referredto inthe preceding subparagraphhas
           beenduly authorized or ratified by and i s legally bindingupon the Borrower andsaid
           Entityin accordancewith its terms;

       0   The Operations Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by said
           Entity, and

       0   The Project Account has been openedby saidEntity and an initial amount of $20,000
           equivalent for PartA of the Project and$10,000 equivalent for Part B of the Project,
           as the case may be, has bee deposited into such Account.


Financial Covenants
TheEntities,through the PIUs, shall causethe Participating ESOs to provide:
    a) Promptly to thePIUs the resources required in accordancewith the relevant Annual
       Service Delivery Agreement;
    b) Timely andreliable financial information to the PIUsinrespectof the usageof such
       resources;
    c) Access to the auditors to financial records and accounts; and
    d) A full-time staff member as a liaisoncoordinator andextension agent to work with the
       PIUson Project implementation-related matters.


                                                11

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicandfinancialanalyses (Annex 9)
Support per Beneficiary: The amount of support underthe SESPperbeneficiary would be
determined on need rather than a pre-defined fixed amount. The PELRPwas constrained to
deliver a set amount of support per ex-soldier since the number of beneficiaries was known from
the beginningandit was public knowledge as to what the project amount was. The current case-
load of ex-soldiers being servedunder the PELRPinthe FBHabove its initial case-loadare
beingservedon aneeds basis andnot on a fixed amount basis. The PEScurrently allocate
support per beneficiary on an ad-hoc basis with support inthe range of KM6,500 per
beneficiary. As of March 2004 the minimumwage inthe public sector was calculated inthe
Federation, as ranging from 55 to 70 percent of the net average wage depending on the sector.

net wage was KM406. The minimumwage inMarch 2004, therefore rangedfrom KM329 -
The Federation net average wage was KM526. Inthe RS for the same time periodthe average

KM386intheFederation. While intheRSthe minimumwage equaledthe minimumprice of
labor, which is KM82 as definedby the RS General Collective Agreement (GCA). However,
there has been an initiativeof bargaining a new GCA inthe RS which would define the
minimumwage as 50percent of the average wage. Underthe SESP the employment support per
individual could rangefrom as low as KM800 per personto KM3,000 per person.

2. Technical: (Annexes 6 and 12)
The project will rely on the annual technical proposals submittedbythe PES offices for project
implementation. Each proposal will be reviewed and refinedon the basis andexperience of the
PELRP.

3. Fiduciary
The SESPwould finance aportion of the ALMPs of the PESoffices basedupon their proposals
and the subsequentagreedaction plans for their participation. The portion of the program
financed by PESsthrough their own resourceswill be considered as co-financing of the SESP.
Thisco-financing will vary inamounts dependingon the financial situation andneeds of the
region and canton. For example, Sarajevo canton has indicated that it does not require financial
assistancebut does require technical assistanceto design its ALMPs andjob brokerage services.
Therefore the SESP's proportionof co-financing of the Sarajevo canton proposal would be
minimal while inthe case of poorer cantons andregions it would be significant. The designof
the project seeks to use co-financing as a means of buildingownership rather than as a pre-
requisite hardand fast procedure.

The co-financing from the employment services couldbecontingent upon the unemployment
contribution rate. The government on advise from the IMFi s considering the reduction of the
unemployment insurance contributionrate from 2.5 to 1.5 percent or even less. Ifthe rate i s
reducedbelow 1.5 percent it would limit resourcesfor the Federation PESs and would not only
curtail credit programs, which i s apositive outcome, but would also have the negative outcome
of curtailing the PES abilities to deliveryjob brokerage services andALMPs Annex 12).




                                                 12

The SESPenvisages transfer of all implementation proceduresincludingfiduciary
responsibilities to the employment services inthe pen-ultimate year of project implementation
basedon the recommendation and assessment by the World Bank.

Fiduciaryappraisalconclusion: The assessment concluded that PIUs currently satisfy Bank's
minimumfinancial managementrequirements.The PIUshave gained substantial experiencein
efficiently managing accounting and reporting for several ongoing projects. The financial
management arrangements for PIUs are considered capable of satisfactorily recording all
transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular andreliable financial statements,
safeguarding the entities' assets, and are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank.

4. Social

Destruction and displacement causedby war as well as transition have ledto the high rates of
unemployment inBH. The affects of war continue to affect unemployment. Inaddition the
necessaryreforms of the state enterprises and public sector and corporate restructuring and
privatizationwhich would assistBHinre-definingits economy will leadto additional short to
medium term unemployment due to retrenchment. Pre-war, the industry inthe region which
comprises BH was organized around heavy metal enterprises, mining, construction and other
industries that primarily fed into the defenseindustry of the state of Yugoslavia. Employees held
jobs for life and worked five days a week. However, the mainstay or secondjob of the mostly
rural based population was in agriculture. Most of the population has therefore returned to
agriculture not as a primary source of income but as a safety net. However the agribusiness
sector also provides viable income generation opportunities.

The formal labor force inBHwhich i s listedas employed inthe state runenterprises is inthe age
groups of 40 and above while the younger population i s employed mainly inthe unregistered
firms in the informal sector which include agriculture. Retrenchment will therefore affect the
older population andtheir households, and this group will find it exceedingly difficult to find
newjobs while the lack ofjobs will continue to affect younger job seekers and providethem
with the disincentive to remain inthe country. Remittances from family members working
abroad constitute a significant number of households income.

A rapidbeneficiary assessment for the PELRPwas completed on March31,2004 (inaddition to
a beneficiary assessment carried out a year earlier) andcovered a random sample of 20 percent
of PELRPclients inthe categoriesof on thejob training and employment, vocational training
and self employment in agriculture. The assessment's mainconclusions are that more than two
years after receiving assistanceunder the PELRPinthe Federation over 80 percent of the
beneficiaries rely on those services providedunder the project as their primary sources of
income. Inthe RS, 66 percent of all PELRPclients providedwith services are still employed
either inthe income earning opportunities provided to them under the project or in other jobs.
 Self employment in agriculture was the main sector inwhich employment was providedto the
beneficiaries.

The SESP's target group would comprise of those who are inthe vulnerable category or those
persons who are registered active job seekers and within this category considered the most
vulnerable and hardcore unemployed becausethey have been unemployed for a period of more


                                                 13

than six months to two years. These people would most likely be mainly unskilledand or/ over
the age of 45. For example, inthe case of Sarajevocanton which has the highest density of
population of 450,000 persons, approximately 44,000 registered unemployed are activejob
seekers. However, 40% of themhave informal income earning opportunities. Another 20
percent are university graduates. The remaining40 percent of active job seekers who are
unemployed are unskilled, of this 17,600 persons or 80 percent are women.

5. Environment
The SESP activities wouldinclude short term public works such as garbagecollection
particularlyalongside the rivers of the country. The accumulation of garbageparticularlyplastic
bags along the river-ways anddrainages inthe country side and the cities pose an environmental
hazardwhich couldbe mitigatedby organizedcitizens efforts at the municipal level. The project
will support such efforts. Such activities are expected to affect the environment positively.




6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [I                    E XI
  NaturalHabitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                             [I                    [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               [I                    [X 1
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                  [I                    [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP4.10)                                    [I                      XI
  Forests(OP/BP4.36)                                                                      11                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [I                    [X 1
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [I                    1XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP7.50)                                      [I                    [XI




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputedareas


                                                             14

                            Annex 1: CountryandSector Background
           BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject

Recently adopted Poverty Reduction Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovinarecognizes that
increaseinemployment can be expected mainly inthe private sector and that the best path to
reducing unemployment i s takingmeasures for encouraging entrepreneurship across all sectors
includinginthe provision of employment services andjob brokerage. The MTDS sets its context
for the labor market in the implementation of vital reforms inthe midterm periodof 2004-2005
inthe public sectorwhich wouldcause reduction ofjobs inthis sector. The strategy for reduction
of unemployment includes:
        (i)  reform of the Public Employment Services (PES) from their current primary role as
             social insurance providers to employment services andjob brokerage; and the
             removalof credit programs from employment services;
        (ii)strengtheningofthesingleeconomicspaceandremovalofmarketfragmentation,
             eliminatejob discrimination and increase labor mobility; and
        (iii)recognizinglegitimateincomeearningopportunitiescurrentlyrelegatedtothe
             informal sector as employment.

Insupport of this strategythe Bankhas focused its support to the Government onreforming
social protection andlabor market policy, furtheringprivatization and implementing
demonstrable approachesfor effective income generation andjob creation through the
adjustment operations of SOSAC and EMSAC; the technical assistance credits of PTAC and
SOTAC; and the investment lendingoperations of PELRPand LIPII.

Major findings of the labor market study and the experience of the PELRPconfirm that BHlabor
markets continue to experience the accumulated imbalances causedby the war andtransition as
well as residualrigidities of the previous system:
    0   Data on registered unemployment vastly exaggeratetrue prevalence of unemployment.
        Actual unemployment rate is more likely to be inthe range of 16-20 percent or
        approximately 190,000 unemployed persons. According to the 2001labor force survey,
        out of the total registeredunemployed inBH, only slightly less than a quarter qualified
        as unemployed under the standardILO-OECD definition. The rest were either employed
         (another quarter) or inactive (5 1percent). The mainreasonfor unemployment
        registration appears to be free access to health services, obtained upon registration.
        However, as of February 2004 there were 434,686 persons registered as unemployed with
        the employment bureaus of BH, of which the employment service offices' informal
        estimates are that forty percent may have other income earning opportunities andthat
        probably 278,442 registeredpersonswere activejob seekers. But the bureaus concede
        that these statistics reflect many distortions of the current system;
        Job creation and reallocation ofjobs inthe formal sector has been slow particularly inthe
        RS andthe formal sector workforce has become considerably older, while young workers
        have beendeniedaccess to formal sectorjobs; this has contributed to a large informal
         sector inBHwith most of informal employment includingfor the young and women
        taking place inthe sector of small-scale agriculture/farming (47 percent), inconstruction
         (17 percent) and in manufacturing (9 percent). The majority of informal workers are
        employed by private employers, 28 percent are self-employed and about one fifth are


                                                   15

        contributingfamily members. This findingis borne out by the experienceof PELRPand
        LPII;
        Workers in agriculture are not considered as employed;
        There i s low formal sector labor force participation, andfemale labor force participation
        i s among the lowest inthe region. Women comprise 80 percent of the most vulnerable
        unskilledworkers;
        Worker mobility has been modest due to constraints interms of inter-entity mobility;
        relocation within entities andrestructuring of state enterprises as well as housing
        availability;
        Despite the overall context of a stagnant labor market, private firms and agri-business
        have been muchmore dynamic inall aspects ofjob flows, includingnet employment
        growth; and
        A rigidwage determination systemstands inthe way ofjob creation and worker mobility.

The numberof personsregistered as unemployedwith the employment offices does not reflect
the number of actually unemployed inBH. The PES mainfunction andusage of unemployment
insurance contributions i s the provision of health insurance benefits and other cashbenefits for
those registered as unemployed. This provides a key incentive for personsto remain registeredas
unemployed. The data for the registered unemployed therefore does not reflect the reality of
unemployment inBHandrequires clear criteria for eligibility for unemployment. Government
policy makers as well as employment agencies are beginningto accept that reformis required
(see Annex 9 and 12).

                        Persons RegisteredWith Public Employment Services.
 1Regions
    -        IPopulation(estimate)IRegisteredUnemployed 1Informal EstimateofIInformal Estimateof Most 1
                                                         Active Job Seekers  Vulnerable
  Rs          1,400,000            138,000               118,000             29,119
  Federation 3,015,420             296,686               160,442             70,000

Expenditures of PES do not reflect a focus onjob brokerage services and ALMPs as the primary
function of the services. These activities constitute lessthan 30 percent of the expenditures of
most of the PES. Inaddition the PES inthe FBHallocate majorportion of funds for credit
programs. A functional review of the public employment services concluded thesecredit
programs to be lackingin transparency, are non-poor targeted, ad-hoc inclient identificationand
for all purposesrepresentlarge grants rather than loans. Credit programs, health insurance and
cashbenefits constitute the major portionof the PES operations while job brokerage and
ALMPs were negligibleor non-existent. Income earning activities such as agricultural work or
agri-businessare not considered as ajob or as employment. Farmers are therefore registered as
unemployed. This i s partially due to PES orientation which to a large extent remainsgeared
towards apre-transition economy of supplyinglabor to state owned enterprises.

The RSPES has restructuredits services, eliminated credit programs andhasbegunfocusing on
allocating funds to ALMPs. The FBHhas halted its credit programs andi s considering options
on how best to channel these funds; it has begunallocation of funds to ALMPs.




                                                    16

     Annex 2: MajorRelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
       BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject




          sam           W
          0
                       CI
                        R

World    I           I                           I
Bank
EDP       Closed       Investment                 X
PELRP     Supervision Investment                  X                  X
SOSAC     Closed       Adjustment                     X
SOTAC     Supervision TechnicalAssistanceCredit       X     X
SOSACII   Preparation  AdjustmentCredit               X     X
EMSAC     Preparation  AdjustmentCredit                        X          I
PTAC                   TechnicalAssistance Credit                    X
SITAP     Supervision TechnicalAssistanceCredit
Other

                                                      X  X  X  X     X
Policy

                                                      X
Policy
support
OESC/IOM ICompleted   1Grant AssistanceITA       I x




                                                  17

                           Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
            BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject

                                       ResultsFramework

                                       OutcomeIndicators           Useof OutcomeInformation
1) Provisionof employment         Over 10,000job seekers and their To reduce unemployment.
services for an estimated 10,000  households provided with income
people                            eaming opportunities.            To assist the creation of a
                                                                   flexible and agile labor market
2) Further reformagendato bring PES expenditures, revenues,        system that meets European
behavioralchange and business     procedures, databases for        Union standards.
change inthe provision of         registeredunemployed; labor
employment services by focusing   market information; and staffing To enable the labor force to

the PES on the delivery of job    would indicate a shift to        match and adopt to the changing

brokerage services; employment    primarily focusing on effective  requirement of a free market

and assistanceprograms;           employment services measures.    system.

analytical labor market

                                  ResultsIndicatorsfor Each        Useof ResultsMonitoring
                                  Component
ComponentOne:                     ComponentOne:                    ComponentOne:
Creation of income earning        10,000 or more personsplaced in To demonstrate to activejob
opportunities for active job      short and long term income       seekers viable short and long
seekers through the provision of  earning opportunities.           term opportunities for earning
job brokerage and ALMPs or                                         income.
employment assistanceprograms.    Adoption and implementationof
                                  job brokerage and ALMPs by       To demonstrate through active
                                  employment services.             pilot projects good policy reform
                                  Development and delivery of      measures.
                                  transparent small grants         To transformproject experience
                                  programs based on annual         into institutional change and
                                  minimumwage index, insteadof     policy.
                                  credit schemes.
ComponentTwo:                     ComponentTwo :                   ComponentTwo:
Institution buildingand technical Recognition of all legalincome   Informand make the case for
assistanceto PES                  earning opportunities (such as   policy makers that PES should
                                  farming and agribusiness) as     only provide employment
                                  jobs.                            services and not healthinsurance
                                  PES expenditures reflect primary benefits.
                                  focus on employment services     Provide successful experience in
                                  and not on other tasks.          PES for policy formulation.

                                  Social Insurance Benefit         Provide a continual processfor
                                  payments such as Health          flexible provision of A L M P s
                                  Insurance BenefitsPension        basedon market context.
                                  Benefits and cash benefits
                                  transferred to an appropriate    Staff training and development

                                  agencies.                        for officers to administer the
                                                                   programs.



                                                  18

UpdatedResearchand                 Develop regulations to relieve
Information Data base on Labor     Smployment services of the
Markets                            burdenof healthinsurance
                                   administration.
                                   Develop an employment services
                                   information technology system
                                   based onjobseeker andjob
                                   vacancy databases.
                                   Develop standard guidelines for
                                   counseling programs, for training
                                   programs, for outreach activities
                                   involving companies that are
                                   downsizing or have extensive
                                   waiting lists, and for public
                                   works programs.
                                   Pilot an appropriate Labor
                                   Market Information System
                                   (LMIS) based on individual
                                   employment offices but linked to
                                   higher levels inthe organizations
                                   structures.
                                   Develop alternative labor market
                                   series basedon broader based
                                   surveys rather thanjust
                                   administrative data.
                                   Introduce labor market research
                                   unitsinthe Ministries of Labor.
ComponentThree:                    ComponentThree:
Databasesfor monitoring and        Transfer implementation
evaluationare fully functional in responsibilitiesfrom the PIUsto
the PES.                           the PES and respective Entity
Eligibility Criteria for selecting Ministries.
beneficiaries for job brokerage    Institutionalizethe experience
and ALMPS are updated yearly.      and good practices of the PIUs
Support to beneficiaries i s based within the Government
on a systematic assessment of      institutions responsible for
skills and socio-economic          employment services (PES).
profile.                            Assist the creation of competitive
Procurement of services from       employment services.
private sector i s conducted on a   Transfer experience and good
competitive basis.                  practices to private sector
 Staff of PES i s trained inFMS     employment services.

and procurement.
PIUfunctions are fully integrated
inthe Ministry ofLabor and
PES.


                  19

E

0
0
3    0
     m
     N



                               Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
           BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA: Second Employment Support Project

The SESP i s basedon the experienceof the PELRP (closing date September 30,2004). The
PELRP represents a significant portion of ALMP knowledge andexperience inBH. The project
would transfer experience to the PES and would support them intransforming and changing their
activities, processesand procedures towards job brokerage, employment services programs and
labor markets informationcollection and dissemination.

A beneficiary assessment was completed on March31,2004 andcovereda randomsample of 20
percent of PELRPclients in the categories of on thejob placements, training and self-
employment in agriculture. The assessment's main conclusions are that after more than two years
of receivingassistanceunder the PELRP, over 80 percent of the beneficiaries inthe Federation
rely on those services provided under the project as their primary sources of income while inthe
RS, 66 percent of all ex-soldiers providedwith services inthe course of the PELRP are still
employed either inthe income earning opportunities provided to them under the project or in
otherjobs.


Target Population and Regions for the SESP: The SESP's target group would comprise of
those who are inthe vulnerable category. This would mean personswho are registered active
job seekers and within this category considered the most vulnerable and hardcore unemployed
becausethey have been unemployed for a period of more than six months to two years. These
people would most likely be mainly unskilled andor over the age of 45. For example inthe case
of Sarajevo canton approximately 44,000 are activejob seekers however 40 percent of them
have informal income earning opportunities. Another 20 percent are university graduates. The
remaining 40 percent of activejob seekerswho are unemployed are unskilled, of this 17,600
personsor 80 percent are women.

Eligibility Criteria for the identificationof beneficiaries would be developed and refinedjointly
with the representativesof the PES and the EntityMinistries of Labor. Such an eligibility criteria
will be outlined inthe project's operations manual. This criteria would be updated yearly during
the life of the project. Selection criteria for the beneficiaries would include:

        Registered with the PES;
        Activejob seeker for more than two years;
        Over the age of 45;
        No other income earning family member; and
        Unskilled.

Study for Identificationof Eligible Regions and Beneficiaries: In addition, to refiningthe
selection criteria, a study for refining eligibility criteria and targeting was undertaken for the
SESP which updatedthe unemployment and employment situation inthe country andprovided
recommendations. The study's recommendations for targeting are basedon the relationship (in
terms of percentages) between the total population, employment and unemployment within
cantons andregions and to the country's. The study selects eligible regions on the basis of an


                                                    24

unemployment co-efficient which i s the ratio of two co-efficients : (1) the unemployment/
population co-efficient which i s the ratio of share of a canton intotal unemployment inthe
Federation or RS with the share of the cantodregionin the total population of the Federatiofis;
and (2) the employment/population co-efficient which i s the ratio of the share of the
cantodregion intotal employment with share of the canton intotal population of the
FederationRS. Based on this its recommendeda focus inthe Federation on six cantons and 28
municipalities andinthe RS on four regions and 32 municipalities. The eligible cantons and
regions are selected on the basis of dividing the share of the canton or region intotal
unemployment with the share of the canton or regionintotal employment inthe Federation or
RS.This study will be includedas an input and guide indiscussionson eligibility by the major
stakeholders in the SESP.

Submission of Proposals by Each Regional and Cantonal PES for Participation and
Support under the SESP: The proposals to be submittedby eachrespective employment
serviceswould indicate an important basis, understanding and agreement towards SESP and its
development objectives. They would form a priori an indicator of the PES willingness to change.
The proposals would form the basis for the partnership, common understandingandteam
building required for the implementation of the SESP. At appraisal all 10cantons inthe
Federation and all 6 regions inthe RS had submitted proposals. Each had, as requested,
submittedtwo proposals: (1) for technical assistancefrom the PELRP-PIUs for designing the
allocated funds for 2004 for ALMPs; and (2) for 2005 participation underthe SESP.

            Submissionof Proposals and Type of Likely Assistance Under SESP

                                             Type of Likely Supportunder SESP
                                       TA                                Funds
            Federation:
            Tuzla                      X                                   X
            Posavina                   X                                   X



            Mostar                     X                                   X
            Livno                      X                                   X
            BHac                       X                                   X
            Grude                      X                                   X
            Gorazde                    X                                   X
            Rs:
            BanjaLuka                  X                                   X




Project Components:The SESP would have three components: (1) Job brokerage services and
ALMPs; (2) Institutionalcapacity buildingandtechnical assistance for the PES; and
(3) Project management.




                                                  25

(1)Job BrokerageServicesandActive LaborMarketPrograms:

       Job Brokerage Services: Would focus the employment services on matching employers
with job vacancies to appropriately skilled activejob seekers.

   0   Accepting and displaying or advertisingjob vacancies;
   0   Screening applicants;
    0  Automatically matchingjobseekers to vacancies;
    0  Referringandplacingjobseekers; and
    0  Self service operations.
       Active Labor Market Programs: Both the Federation andRS employment services
would submit proposals for the implementation of assistanceprograms for support underthe
SESP. The proposals would focus on:
           Counseling Services: provide advice to jobseekers interms of vocational orientation
           and labor market information;
           Onthejob training (placement of clients inexistingjob vacancies with
           incentivedfees to employers for their training and aportion of their wages for a
           limited periodof time). Under the PELRPa total of 1,560 ex-soldiers were placedin
           existingjobs and were trained inthesepositions. The PIUsidentifiedat least 2,500
           vacancies which remained unfilledandunwanted by ex-soldiers, largely due to
           mobility and expectations issues;
           Self-employment inagriculture was the most in demand and therefore successful
           subcomponentunder the PELRP and4,061 ex-soldiers with landand family know-
           how were placedinincome earningopportunities with the provisionof livestock and
           farmimplements. Another 103ex-soldiers were assistedwith their small business
           activities;
           Job fairpublic Works: This would be a new areato develop. All applicants would
           first needto agree to takingjob fair types of work to show their needfor employment
           support. Public works inthe context of ECA couldincludeprovidingsocial services
           type care for the elderly. This i s a self-targeting mechanism usedinother ECA
           countries and will be explored inthe secondproject. This would merit consideration
           and would be designedto screen for those who are the most needy-the poorest -in
           the economy;
           Businessadvisory services (assistance through advise on cooperatives, registration of
           business, proposal writing for loans, etc); and
           Skills enhancementand training (placing clients in vocational training and skills
           enhancementcourses such as computer and language training, retrainingandhigher
           education). Under the PELRPa total of 173 ex-soldiers were placedininstitutional
           training includingEnglishlanguage, computers, driving lessons; while 23 were
           supported for their higher education.


(2) Institutional Capacity Buildingand Technical Assistance to the PES:

The PES would upgrade and strengthentheir capacity injob brokerage andemployment services
programs through support for:


                                                  26

        Developingstandardguidelines for counseling programs, for training programs, for
        outreach activities involving companies that are downsizing or have extensive waiting
        lists, and for public works programs;
        Staff training and development for officers to administer the programs;
        Developingregulations to relieve employment services of the burden of health insurance
        administration;
        Developing standardclassifications of occupations and industriesfor use in the
        employment service;
        Developing an employment services information technology systembased onjobseeker
        andjob vacancy databases;
        Developing operational guidelines for job brokerage services including guidelines for the
        administration of realistic work tests; and
        Developing standardguidelines for counseling programs, for training programs, for
        outreach activities involving companies that are downsizing or have extensive waiting
        lists and for public works programs.

Staff training and development at each of the institutionallayers. The priority for staff training
and development would be at the level of individual (cantonal/regional) employment service
offices.

Analytical and informationservices: Governments should be better informed, at least
quantitatively, about the labor marketthan most employers, workers orjobseekers. They have
access to data (from statistical collections or administrative data) that are not widely known.

One of the most important services they can provide i s to make this information widely
available. Sources of dissemination include the employment service itself, education institutions,
publications and advertising. The Employment Institutes inthe two Entities have beenreleasing
administrative data for some time but given that many people register for social service rather
than becausethey are unemployed, the data are not especially useful in analyzing the economy or
the labor market in any detail. Improvedanalytical series are required. Although the
Employment Institutes would be more involvedinthis than the wide employment service, the
Ministries of Labor should be the main avenueof advice to the two Entity Governments. There
i s no evidence that they are fulfilling this role. The analytical and information services need to be
upgradedby:

     0  Developing standard classifications of occupations and industries throughout the country;
     0  Developing an appropriate Labor Market InformationSystem (LMIS) basedon
        individualemployment offices but linkedto higher levels inthe organizations structures;
     0  Developing alternative labor market series basedon broader basedsurveys rather than
        just administrative data;
     0  Introducingfull labor market researchunits inthe Ministries of Labor; and
     0  Finalizingthe StateEmployment Agency and incorporating it inthe LMIS.


(3) Project Management :Would support project implementation andcoordination with all
partnersin the SESP. The project would be managedby the project implementation units and


                                                    27

would include the supervision andmonitoring of all componentsunder the project as well as the
knowledge transfer to and training of participating PES agencies. The PIUs would implement the
integration of all their functions and proceduresinto the government institutions includingthe
employment services basedon the performance of these agencies during implementation. The
PIUswould liaison, coordinate andinformthe line ministriesas well as the World Bank on
project implementation. The PIUs would be responsiblefor the updating and development of
operations procedures. To this endthis component would finance necessaryequipment,
operating costs andtechnical assistance and a staff development program.

Extension agents: Under the SESP the cantonal/regional Employment Service Offices will be
requestedto nominate and appoint one member of their staff each to coordinate and work with
the PWs.This staff member would coordinate and work closely with the PIUs on project
implementation and would be trained by the PIUstaff.




                                                28

                     8 8   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8
                      2 2  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 02.
                                            '"




      3          8      8
                 \o
                 00     3
                        QI


  d
  e
   UE n
    I 6 9    0 0 0

   $ 2
   o m




         r"EE
         8          L




Y        4
         ."o
         *C)
         a
         m
         C
         8
         L

         4B2
         Pa        a9
         c)




         z
         L


         I

      =r;
      8      9
             Q\




8 9 8
9     9    9 9                      9
                0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0   8
0- 0 0-    8 5   0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
           4
3     3                             2




      9      9                  8   9
     oe
      \o    3o\                 0
                                00 %


0 0 0
                  0 0 0 0 ~ 0 0 ~
                                9
0 0 0
0 0 0
0 0-
  0.            ~ o , o ~ , o o 8
b N \ D                         3

                8
                2




        3
        f       3
                QI




            9 9     0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  8
            v i m
            0 0     0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0  v)
                                       v)




 &                                  $  8
                                    N f Q




Y
5G
$ 2
o w             8


                3
                                             3
                                             M




    0 0 0  9 9
           8 8
            m u ?




                   c     =3

                              Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
           BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject

Active labor market programs andjob brokerage services would be implemented through the ten
cantonal employment services inthe Federation and six regional employment services inthe RS
basedon the implementation proposals submittedto the project implementation unit of the FBH
Ministryof Labor andintheDevelopment andEmploymentFund(DEF)inthe RS for review
andWorld Bank approval.

The project procurement, financial management,monitoring, supervision, development of
selection criteria for target groups, ALMPs technical assistanceto the employment services
would be implemented by the PIUs establishedunder the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment
project (PELRP). Operations manuals developedunder the PELRPand revised and updatedfor
the SESP will guide project implementation procedures.

Inthe FBH:the Socio Economic Support, Education andRedeployment unit (SESER)
responsible for the implementation of the PELRPi s operating within the Ministry of Labor and
Social Affairs. The Director andDeputy Director of the Federation PIUare former Assistant
Ministers of Labor and Social Affairs and were secondedto the PIUin2000. The relationship of
the PIUto the Ministry andto the PES is apositive one with close cooperation andcoordination
of activities. The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs has playedan active role insupporting the
PELRPandviews the PIUas important and strategic vehicle for furthering changeof the PES.

Inthe RS: The DEFis considered as aquasi government organization andis reliedon heavilyby
the Government in informing policy in various sectors basedon investment lendingexperience.
The Ministry of War Victims, Veterans andLabor is fully informedand works inclose
cooperation with the DEF.The PIUinthe RS will operate under the umbrella of the DEF.The
PIUswould manage, implement, superviseandmonitor, procurement andfinancial management
activities underthe project. They would review yearly proposals from the PES for ALMP
implementation and would assist, support, supervise and monitor the designing of selection
criteria for targeting; screening of clients; designingof ALMPs. The PIUs would review and
support with technical and financial assistanceyearly proposals for ALMP implementation by
PESoffices.

A gradual transfer of any of these responsibilities from the PIUsto the PESwould be basedon
the mid-termreview and also on a yearly review of performance of employment services
participation inthe project.

Under the supervision andmonitoringof the PIUs, the delivery of ALMPs would be contracted
out to private sector service providers basedon the operational procedures for the SESP.

An estimated 10,000 persons as of March2004 can be considered as the pool of most vulnerable
job seekers. Vulnerability would define eligibility under the SESP. Therefore the numberrather
than exact individuals would be the estimated target population for the SESP in order to enable
the project to achieve its desired outcome of focusing on eligibility vs. entitlement. Therefore the
project would require employment services tojointly renew and reviewjob seekers eligibility
criteria each year to keep current with changing context of the socio-economic situation.


                                                  32

The project would co-finance ALMPs basedon employment services proposals. Inorder to
evaluate the effectiveness of the ALMPs financed by the SESP, the monitoring and evaluation
process would use beneficiaries under the credit programs of the employment services inthe year
2003 and 2004 and subsequent years as a control group. The purpose of this would be to show
the differences of the approacheson sustainability, cost effectiveness andjob placement.

Step One: Submission of Proposals: Cantons and Regions submit proposals by March 20,
2004. The proposals would be designedto serve the target group of the most vulnerablejob
seekers.

Step Two: Review and Revisionof Proposals:These proposals will be reviewedandjointly
refined between PIUs, PESs and World Bank and will form the basis for the first year of SESP
support beginning October 1,2004.

Step Three: Eligibility Criteria for Targeting: An eligibility criteria for beneficiary group will
be defined by April 15'h,2004 as an output of ajoint workshop between PESs, World Bank,
PWs andMinistries of Labor on the PAD andoutcomes of proposals submitted on March 15.
The eligibility criteriamay vary from region to regionbut would focus on the most vulnerable
(Thisevent would be ateam andtrust buildingexercise for reaching a commongoal and
understanding of the SESP amongst the key partners).

Step Four: RevisingProposalsinAccordance with Eligibility Criteria: The group of
beneficiaries suggestedinthe proposals would be evaluated on the basis of the eligibility under
the SESP eligibility criteria.

Step Five Nomination of ESOStaff members to work with SESPPIUs: Each employment
service branch andcanton office would nominate a full time staff member as the liaison,
coordinator and extension agent to the SESP. The staff members from the employment services
would be the main point personsfor the SESP and would work closely with the SESP PIU staff.
These extension agents would inpractice increasethe staff capacity of the PIUs for extension
work as well as buildinstitutional capacity of the employment services through the trainingthey
will receive duringproject implementation. The PIUs would be responsible for deciding the
suitability of the staff member. The contribution of the staff members by the employment
services to the SESP would be considered as part of the co-financing of the project by the
employment services.

Step Six: Verification of Target Group: The exercise of refiningthe lists according to the
eligibility criteria by visiting groups of individuals ineach canton and each regionwith the
assistance of service providers undercontract with the PIU. The PIUwould supervise this effort
inclose cooperation with the PESs.

Step Seven: Datebase Entry: The eligible persons and their skills and socio-economic profile
would be entered into the data base of the PIUs and would be entered into the data base of the
cantonal/regional PES.




                                                  33

Step Eight: Annual Service Delivery Agreements (ASDAs) and Implementation and
Financingof Proposals: PIUsinpartnership with individualESOswould beginimplementation
on the basis of ASDAs. The ASDAs would be basedon the revised and agreedproposals signed
between the individual Federation ESOs andRS Regional Offices (after approval and
authorization by the RSEmployment Office). The ASDAs would outline the annual program of
activities to be implemented and would include the proportion of resources that would be
required from each individual ESO and from IDA resources.

Step Nine: Monitoring: Monitoring of beneficiaries would be continuous andwould begin with
refining of submittedlists.

Step Ten: Data base: The database system of each PES would be upgradedandnetworked with
all the ESOs, Ministries of Labor and PIUs to include this information.

Step Eleven: Informationflow: Ministries of Labor, Employment Institutes and StateAgency
for Employment would be keptinformedat each phase.

Inyear Two:

PES representativeswould meetjointly with PIU, Ministries andBank and re-evaluate the
eligibility criteria.

A secondproposal would be submitted for another group of people who would fit the eligibility
criteria.

The processwould be repeatedfor refining lists, enteringinto systemandimplementing
programs.

Same processwould occur inyear three and four.




                                               34

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
          BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject


 Financial Management

1. SummaryoftheFinancialManagementAssessment

ExecutiveSummaryand Conclusion

An assessment to determine whether the financial management arrangements within the project
implementation units (PIUs) for the Second Employment Support Project are acceptable to IDA
was undertaken in April 2004. The assessment concluded that PIUs currently satisfy Bank's
minimumfinancial management requirements. The PIUshave gained substantial experience in
efficiently managing accounting and reporting for several ongoingprojects. The financial
management arrangements for PIUs are considered capable o f satisfactorily recordingall
transactions and balances, supportingthe preparationof regular and reliable financial statements,
safeguarding the entities' assets, andare subject to auditingarrangements acceptable to the Bank.
A summaryof financial management assessment andconclusions are as follows:




                                                       I pastseveral years.
 I RATING
   OVERALL FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT       I
                                      I   Satisfactory I
                                                       I                                     I
Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files. A
report on the Review of Financial Management System is included inthe Project Implementation
Plan and inthe project files.

CountryIssues

A CountryFinancial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for BHwas carriedout in2001. The
CFAA identifies systemic and structural weaknesses inpublic sector budgeting, accounting,
reporting, and auditing. The CFAA therefore recommends a mediumto longer-term goal of
mainstreaming project management into Ministries and Departments, and of consolidating
implementingunits andrefraining from the creation of new ones. Accordingly, this project will
be implemented by existing PIUs with experience of implementing the ongoingfirst labor



                                                 35

redeployment (PELRP) and social sector TA (SOTAC) projects andthereby ring-fencingthe
project's financial managementarrangements. Inaddition, the CFAA identifies weaknesses in
the country's bankingsector. Consequently, the Special Accounts for the project will be opened
incommercial banks assessedas acceptableto the Bank.

Both PIUs have the advantageof having experienced financial managerswith extensive
experience from IDA projects as well as projects financed from other sources. Both of them
satisfy the Bank's minimumrequirementsfor beingfinancial managerdproject accountants in
IDAprojects. The tumover rateof staff inPIUsis low bothfor financial andnon-financial staff.

FinancialManagementAssessment

(a)ImplementingEntities

The IDA Credit would be lent to the Government of BH, which would on-lend the proceeds to
the Federation of BHandto Republika Srpska. The Credit would be actually disbursed by the
respective PIUs. The maintask of the PIUis to prepare and carry out financial management,
contracting and supervision, reporting and evaluation duringthe project implementation period.
The PIUDirectorsreport to the Ministers of Laborinthe respective Entities. Boththe PIUs,in
the Federation of BHand RS, have extensive experience inimplementing Bank-financed PERLP
and SOTAC projects. Considering the short span of time between project preparation andproject
appraisal andthe extensive experience accumulated by the existing PIUsin implementing similar
project, the task team concluded that the existing PIUs should continue to implement this
repeaterproject with a caveat that the government agencies assume increasingrole inthe
implementation of the project. Inthe later part of the project implementation period, it is
envisagedthat greater functions would be assumedby the cantonal Employment Service Offices
(ESO) inthe Federation and Regional Employment Service Offices (RESO) inRS. Currently,
the ESOs and RESOshave very basic bookkeeping skills and lack any financial management
skills. Duringthe course of the project, technical assistancewould be providedto them to
establish andstrengthenthe financial managementand information managementcapacity. At
that stage, an assessment would be made to determine the extent of reliance that couldbe placed
on these agencies anddetermine the functions that would need to be transferred to them from
PIUs.Inthe initial stages, it is envisagedthat ESOs andRESOswould be involvedinverifying
the services providedby the service providers, and certifyingthe invoices submittedby the
serviceproviders. All payments, from the funds providedby IDA, would be made by the PIUs.

The risk associatedwith the implementing entities is assessedas negligible.

(b)FundsFlow

The total project expenditures for RS andthe Federation of BHwould be US$ 12.5 million
equivalent, of which US$ 12.0 million would be financed from the IDA credit, US$0.375
million from the two Entity Governments, andUS$0.165 from the ESO/RESOs. The
counterpart contributions, received from the entity governments, would be transferred to separate
"government" bank accountsmanagedby the PIUs. Counterpart funds to be providedby the
ESO/RESOs would continue to be managedby the respective ESO/RESO.




                                                36

Two IDA Special Accounts would be established(one for each PIU), and both these Special
Accounts would be heldincommercial banks acceptableto IDA. Also, the PIUs would maintain
local accounts for foreign currency payments and local "transaction" accounts for payments in
local currency. Local bank balances, by way of transfers from the IDA special accounts, of more
than 4 weeks' expenditures, inprinciple, will not be allowed. Entitygovernment contributions to
the project would be heldin separatebank accounts.

Flow of funds charts and related documents inthe respective Financial Management Manuals
form the basis for the project accounting procedures, and describe all tasks involved inthe flow
of funds and accounting. The administrative procedures for the flow of funds are well
establishedin the PIUs and documented inthe Financial Management Manuals.

There have been substantial delays intransferring counterpart funds to the PIUs inthe past. This
i s a generic problemfor the entire portfolio and i s being tackled through mechanisms established
at the conclusion of the recent CPPR (October 2003). This project envisages a minimum
financial contributiondirectly from the entity governments. Instead, ESO/RESOs will make
substantial contribution, from their own resources, towards this project. Inorder to ensure that at
least inthe beginning reasonablecounterpart funds are available for project implementation, an
effectiveness condition will be incorporated into the legal agreementsrequiringentity
governments to deposit certain amount inthe counterpart bank accounts.

As there have beenno prior experience indealing with ESORESOs, the risk associatedwith
funds is assessedas moderate andthe situation will be monitored very closely.

(c) Staffing

The PIUsinthe Federationof BHandRS will be staffed as described inAnnex 6 above. The
finance and accounting staff have a number of years experience inimplementingBank-financed
projects and have received traininginvarious aspectsover several years.

The financial management assessment shows that the staff of bothimplementation units are fully
capable in accounting and reporting requirements.

(d)Accountingand Reporting System

Both the PIUs have been usingproven accounting software which has necessary capabilities to
produce the required reports and maintain trail of transactions in verifiable manner. The finance
and accounting staff inPIUs are familiar with the operation of the software and the auditors have
not made any adversecomments on the accounting system intheir audit reports for ongoing
projects. The systems are classified by component; reflect the sources of funds and can be broken
down into differenttypes of expenditures for the project. Further,they provide information on
the receipt anduse of funds and are able to produce financial reports comparing budget with
actual expenditures at any given time. They have adequate security levels and meet the Bank's
minimumreportingrequirements. Boththe PIUs will be usingthe same software for the
accounting and reporting for this new project. ESORESOs will submit weekly accounting
statements includingcopies of documents in support of transactions taking place out of their
counterpart funds. These would be incorporated inthe PWs accounting system andwould be



                                                37

subjectedto a review by the PIU, the Bank and the project auditor. These arrangements are
considered satisfactory to the Bank.

(e) AccountingPoliciesand Procedures

Accounting procedures are set out inthe Financial Management Manuals. Both manuals have
been found to be satisfactory, and hence meet the financial managementrequirements for Board
presentation.

(f)InternalControls

Payment authorizations as described inthe flow of funds diagrams for both PIUs are designedto
ensure proper segregation of duties. All payment orders requirejoint signatures.

An additional controlelement introducedinthis project is the verification of service provider's
invoiceby an ESO/RESOas regardsthe quality andquantity of services provided. The PIUs
have developed robust procedures for the selection of beneficiaries that include verification by
the PIUextension agents, by an independent service provider, and close monitoringby the PIU
management. Similar control procedures will be employed inthis project.

Both the PIUs have extensive experience inmanaging and implementingBank-financed projects
and have establishedsound internal control mechanismsfor ensuringintegrity of accounting and
reporting systems. The Project Operations Manual describes various internalcontrols including
segregationof duties, regular reconciliation, regular reporting etc. The financial management
manual, for Federation andRS,has been found satisfactory.

(g) Planningand Budgeting

PIUshave gained experienceinplanningandbudgetingover the past several years. PIUshave
beenpreparingannualbudgets in accordance with FMRformats for the ongoing projects and
they are found acceptableby the Bank.PIUs will coordinate extensively with ESOs andRESOs
for preparingtheir annual programs.

(h)Auditreportsfor thepreviousyears

A review of audit reports for the ongoing projects implemented by the PIUs for the previous
years revealsthat the auditors have given clean audit opinion on the financial statements. The
managementletters do not contain any serious accounting or internal control issues.

2. Audit Arrangements

(a) Internal Audit. The PIUshave no internalaudit function andnone is considered necessary
given the small size of the organizations.

(b) ExternalAudit. Audit arrangements are entirely between the Government of BH(State) and
auditors. The StateMinistry of Finance andTreasury of BHhas a three-year contract (2001-
2003) with PricewaterhouseCoopers,Netherlands for the audits of WB-financed projects (with


                                                38

the exception of revenue-earning projects). According to the master audit agreement, the audited
project financial statements would be sent to the Bankwithin six (6) monthsof the endof the
fiscal year. The global audit agreement has ensuredsubmission of timely audit reports. Audit
reports for project financial statements include opinions on the project financial statement
(includingstatements of expenditures), the Special Account, and on the PIU's internal control
arrangements and cover all financial sources (IDA, Trust Funds, Government accounts, etc.).
The StateMoF&T i s inthe process of procuring audit services for the period2004-06. The
global audit arrangementshave worked well and are satisfactory to the Association.

The auditors would audit each of the implementing units separately, and issue separateAudit
Reports as well as Management Letters. They would also audit the consolidatedproject financial
statements. The Terms of Referenceusedwould be the standardTORissuedby the BHState
Ministry of Treasury.

The first auditedproject financial statements and an audit report thereon is expectedby June 30,
2006 andwill cover the periodfrom the beginning of the project untilDecember 31,2005.

3. Reportingand Monitoring.

The PIUswould maintain separate financial records for the Project andwouldensure appropriate
accounting for the funds provided. They would prepare andsubmit quarterly Financial
MonitoringReports (FMRs) in agreedformats.

The FMRs would include:

1.      Project Sources and Uses of FundsStatement
2.      Uses of Fundsby Project Component Statement
3.      Project Balance Sheet
4.      Special Account StatementPlusLocal Bank Account Statement
5.      Output MonitoringReports
6.      Procurement ProcessMonitoring(Consultants)
7.      Procurement ProcessMonitoring(Goods andWorks)
8.      Reconciliation of Credit Account balances

Format of Financial Statements: The PKJswould also prepare annual project financial
statements inthe format already agreedbetween the Government of BHandthe auditors, which
have beenfoundconsistent with the F M R s and acceptableto the Bank.

PIUswill design a simple reporting forms for obtaining project-related informationincludinguse
of counterpart funds, from ESO/RESOs.The PIUs will monitor submission of such information
on aregular basis and will include periodic visits to their offices to verify the information.

4. Financial RiskAnalysis

From a financial management perspective, the proposed Project is considered a moderate risk
project. A summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:




                                                 39

 Risk                                  I Rating                           Comments

 Znherent Risk
 1. Country Financial ManagementRisk High            Based on CFAA, there is generally EowBnancial
                                                     managementcapacity and accountability in public
                                                     sector.
 2. Project Financial Management         Moderate    Timely counterpartfinding could be a major issue.
 Issues                                              Plus are experienced.
 3. Banking sector                       High        High liquidity & credit risks in a weak RS banking
                                                     sector - relatively small & immature institutions.
 4. Perceived corruption                 High         CFAA notespervasive corruption at all levels of
                                                     the economy.
 Overall Inherent Risk                  High

 ControlRisk
 1.Implementing Entity                  Negligible   Existing experienced PIUS.
 2. Funds Flow                          Moderate     Counterpartfinds is an ismelnoprior experience
                                                     in dealing with ESO/RESOs.
 3. Stafing                             Negligible
 4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Negligible
 5. Internal Audit                      N/A
 6. External Audit                      Negligible
 7.Reporting and Monitoring             Moderate     ESO/RESOwill need to submit regular reports to
                                                     the PIUS.
 8. Information Systems                  Negligible
 Overall Control Risk                    Moderate

The following financial managementrisks could adversely affect project implementation:
   (i) corruption.During1999andsubsequently,seriousconcernshavebeenraised
       High
   concerning fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds inBH.This has been reportedinthe
   following studies: (a) The 2001CorruptionDiagnostic Report of the World Bank; (b) the
   CFAA reports an environment of pervasive corruption at all levels of the economy and
   governments, and (c) the 1999-2000Business Environment andEnterprise Performance
   Survey (BEEPS) conducted by the World Bank andthe European Bank for Reconstruction
   andDevelopment (EBRD)demonstrates that BHi s amongst the bottomthird of transition
   countries with the highest levels of state capture. Eventhough the project i s to be
   implemented inan environment of perceived highcorruption, the risk that Bank's fund wil
   not be usedas intendedi sjudged as manageableby "ring-fencing" the project through the
   existing PIUs and ensuringrobust internalcontrol checks and balances within the PIUS.
   Furthermore, the project has identified several steps indicatedbelow, to minimize the risk of
   misuseof Bank funds.

   (ii)Possiblemisuse of project funds by the beneficiaries or PIUs. The risk of misuse or
   fraud will be minimizedinthe following ways:
      e   Technicalassistancewill be contracted to support institutionaldevelopment of ESOs
          andRESOs so as to create capacity to efficiently managethe services to be providedby
          various serviceproviders.
      0   Monitoring by PZU -the PIUwill engage service providers to verify the list of
          beneficiaries to ensure only eligible beneficiaries are targeted for assistance. In


                                                   40

          addition, serviceswill be engagedto carry out post implementation survey of
          beneficiaries. PIUstaff, who have gained sufficient experience inthe first project, will
          be regularly monitoringthe implementation of the assistanceprogram.
          TheBank task team and PIU will meet regularly to evaluate ESO and RESOproposals
          and evaluation reports.
          Transfer of theproceeds of the credit will be according to tightly-drafted restricted-
          purpose agreementswith serviceproviders which will be approved by the Bank. The
          agreements will contain a clause to assure the utilizationof funds according to agreed
          objectives, as well as a remedies section, which will include the possibility of
          terminating the agreementswhich do not comply with agreedprocedures and/or funds
          utilization;
          Disbursements linked to actual expenses - disbursementsare to be basedon verifiable
          documents; and
          Intensive supervision by the WorldBank. Overall supervision, includingprocurement
          supervision, will be undertaken on aperiodic basis by Bank staff.

    (iii)
        Unstableandweak bankingsector, where spill-over might affect the project
    implementation. The Special Accounts for the project would be kept abroad, in a commercial
    bank acceptable to the Bank. The local project accounts would be kept at the minimum.

    (iv) Implementationby ESO/RESO- as the ESO/RESOshave no prior experience in
    implementingBank-projects, initially much reliance will beplaced on PIUsto implement the
    project and monitor the activities at the ESORESOs. All payments, from the IDA credit,
    would be madeby the PIUs andESO/RESOswill make payments only inrespect of their
    own counterpart funds.

The overall financial managementrisk of this project is considered to be moderate. Adequate
measures are taken by PIUsto ensure all financial risks are identifiedand their mitigation
measuresincorporated into the project operational and financial manuals. The risks would be
continually evaluated and appropriate remedial measures taken duringBank's supervision
missions.

5. DisbursementArrangements

Itis expectedthat the proceedsof the Credit would be disbursedover aperiodof four years
(2004 through 2008). Disbursements from the IDA credit would follow the transaction-based
method, i.e., the traditional Bank procedures includingreimbursements with full documentation,
Statementsof Expenditure (SOE), direct payments and special commitments.

The CFAA Report for BHrecommended that report-based disbursement should not be
introduced inthe BHportfolio at this stage becauseof significant risks relatingto: (i)  project
financial managementweaknesses and lack of capacity in implementingunits; (ii)       weak banking
system; and (iii) unstable political situation and general governance problems presently affecting
Bosnia andHerzegovina.




                                                 41

The Credit amount of US$ 12.0 million funded by IDA would be allocated to the Federation of
BHandRepublikaSrspkaas shown below. Disbursements from the Credit proceedswouldbe
administeredby the FederationPIUand RS Foundation PIU. They are responsible for retaining
supporting documentation for SOEs and making them available to IDA supervision missions, as
well as to the auditors.

The table below shows the Categoriesof items to be financed out of the proceedsof the Credit,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category, andthe Percentageof Expenditures
                                                          - -
for items so to be financed ineach Category.


                                      Allocation of Loan Proceeds

          ExpenditureCategory                   Amount in US$             Financing Percentage
                                                    million
 Part A of the Proiect (The Federation)
 (1)Goods                                            2.00         100%for foreign expenditures, 100%for
                                                                  local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and
                                                                  85% of localexpendituresfor other items
                                                                              procured locally.
 (2) Consultant services, audit and training         4.00           100%of foreign consulting firms and
                                                                 foreign individual consultants, and 80% of
                                                                 local consulting firms and localindividual
                                                                                consultants
 (3) Technical Assistance and Training                1.oo                          100%
 (4) IncrementalOperating Costs                      1.00                            80%

 Subtotal                                             8.00
 Part B. of the Proiect (Republika Srpska)
 (1)Goods                                             1.oo        100%for foreign expenditures, 100%for
                                                                  local expenditures(ex-factory costs) and
                                                                  85% of localexpendituresfor other items
                                                                              procured locally.
 (2) Consultant services, audit and training         2.00           100%of foreign consulting firms and
                                                                 foreign individual consultants, and 80% of
                                                                 local consulting firms andlocal individual
                                                                                consultants
 (3) Technical Assistance and Training               0.50                           100%
 (4) Incremental Operating Costs                     0.50                            80%

 Subtotal                                            4.00

 Total                                               12.00



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Replenishmentapplications shouldbe submittedon a monthly basis andmustbe fully
documentedand supportedby statements andreconciliation statements. SOE disbursements


                                                   42

should be made for: (i)  contracts for individualconsultants valued at less than US $50,000;
(ii)contracts for consulting firms valued at less than U S $100,000; (iii)  contracts for goods
costing less than U S $100,000; and (iv) training, audit fees and all incremental operating costs.
The minimumsize of application for direct payment withdrawals and the issuance of special
commitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation to
the Special Account. This documentation would be made available for the required audit as well
as to Bank Supervision Missions, andwould be retained by the implementingunits for at least
one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the last fiscal year inwhich
disbursement was made.

Special Account:

To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government of BH would establish, maintain
and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts,
denominated in Euro, with either Special Account for the accounting purposes of the Federation
of BH and RS, respectively. Before a bank is selected to hold either Special Account, the
Borrower shall provide sufficient information for IDA to make an assessment of acceptability of
the proposedbank.

The authorized allocation for the Federation of BH Special Account is Euro 600,000. The
authorized allocation for the RS Special Account is Euro 300,000.

6. Supervision Plan

The frequency of supervision would be dependent on the Project's riskrating. During
supervision missions the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
(including a review of a sample of SOEs and movements on the Special Account) would be
reviewed to ensure compliance with the Bank's minimumfiduciary requirements.

The Country FMS would review the F M R s for the project on a regularbasis andthe results
and/or issues would be followed up duringthe supervision missions. The Audited Project
Financial Statements for the PIUs would be reviewedand identifiedissueswould be followed up
with each implementing unit.

As andwhen the ESOs andRESOsare strengthenedand are ready to accept additional project
responsibilities, including financial managementand procurement, an assessment of their
capacity will be carried out to determine their capacity to meet Bank's financial management
requirements.




                                                 43

                                          Annex 8: Procurement
            BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject


The total value of the project is US$ 14million, of which IDA Credit will finance US$ 12.0
million. Project implementation will be coordinated by PIUsestablished in the Federation of BH
andRS. The PIUs have developed implementation experienceinmanaginggrantfunding
mechanismsas part of the ongoing Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project.

86 percent of the IDA contributionwill be disbursedthrough the Employment Services and
Private Service providers, with special procurement arrangementsdescribed inthe POM (Project
OperatingManual)'. The total value of goods, different materials and equipment, including
livestockto be procured under the Project i s about US$3 million. The total value of foreign and
local consulting services andtraining to be procured under the Credit is about US$7,5 million.
The Bank's standardbidding documents will be included inthe Project Operating Manual and
would be utilizedfor the procurement of IDA-financedgoods andconsultants' services. Sample
contracts will also be includedinthe POM.

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (henceforth referredto as
Procurement Guidelines) and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revisedin September 1997, January 1999 andMay 2002
(henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines).

The Procurement Specialist basedinthe Bank's office in Sarajevo carried out a Procurement
Capacity Assessment (PCA) of both units duringthe pre-appraisal mission, and while the units
couldbe given an "average" risk rating for procurement, for the reasonsexplained inthe PCA
report, the overall procurement risk for the project has been assessed as "high."




'  Employment services agencies, private and public, will be responsiblefor the execution of individual activities
through servicecontractsandproject agreements. However, most of them if not all, have littleor no experienceat all
with procurement, administration and accounting and are often overwhelmed by the Banks formal guidelines and
procedures. The purpose of the POM is to provide a better understanding of procurement practices and to quote a
recent write-up on a "Guide for Task Teams on ProcurementProceduresUsed in Social Funds", to "strike a balance
betweendesigningaproject which is implement-able, and achieving accountability".




                                                       44

1.     Procurement Methods

Procurement of Goods

Goods (US$3 million) consisting of goods, different materials and equipment, including
livestock will be grouped to the extent possible and considering project objectives, inpackages
that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of procurement will be
followed:

(i)Shoppingprocedureswillbeusedforreadilyavailableoff-the-shelfgoods,includingminor
     office and computer equipmentof standardspecifications, as well as for Minor Works
     estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract. These procedureswill be
     basedon comparing price quotations obtained from at least three (3) suppliers or contractors
     inaccordancewith the ProcurementGuidelines. Incompilinglists of bidders who will be
     invitedto submit quotations for information technology equipment under Shopping, the
     Borrower will shortlist only those firms which have been listed as eligible to participate in
     Procurement of Off-the-shelf InformationTechnology, according to the relevant website
     maintainedby the Bank (www.worldbank,org/html/opr/shop-IT).

Consulting Services and Training

Contracts for Consulting Serviceswill be packagedto combine related skills and services in
order to make them attractive for competition and reduce the number of contracts to be
administered. To the extent practicable, training activities would be incorporated with consulting
services contracts. Consultant services consist of short- and long-termassignments to be
contracted to firms and/or individuals (national and/or foreign orjointly) dependingon the nature
and duration of the assignments. Selection procedures will be generally through competition
among qualified short listedconsultants. The short lists for consultant services contracts with
firms shall comprise six firms with a wide geographical spread, and with no more than two firms
from any one eligible country. For consulting assignments estimated to cost below US$lOO,OOO
the consultants' short lists might comprise entirely national consultants, providedthere are
qualifiedfirms. For consulting assignmentsexceeding US$200,000 equivalent per contract,
expressions of interest will be obtained by advertisement inDevelopment Business (on-line) and
inthe InfodgMarket, supplementedwith notices issuedinthe national press. NoticesRequest for
Expression of Interest (EOI) for contracts below US$200,000 will be published inthe national
press following the issuanceof the GPN. The following procurement procedures will be used
for selection of consultant services:

(i)   Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section 11,
      paragraphs applicable to QCBS procedures of the Consultant Guidelines, would be usedfor
      procurement of consulting services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO equivalent per
      contract.

(ii)contract
      Least Cost Selection (LCS). Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
               may be procured under contracts awarded inaccordancewith the provisions of
      paragraphs applicable to LCS proceduresof the Consultant Guidelines.


                                                45

     SelectionBased on Consultants' QualiJications (CQ) Services for Project estimated to cost
     less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in
     accordance with the provisions of paragraphs applicable to CQ proceduresof the
     Consultant Guidelines.

     Single Source Selection (SSS). Services incircumstancesmeetingthe requirements of the
     Consultant Guidelines or for Project audits may, with the IDA'Sprior agreement, be
     procured in accordancewith the provisions of paragraphs applicable to SSS proceduresof
     the Consultant Guidelines.

     Individual Consultant (IC). Many specialized activities where specific skills are neededfor
     a short period of time at scatteredintervals and which would not be practical to package
     with the assignments for consulting firms described above, would be best servedthrough
     the recruitment of individualconsultants (both foreign andnational). Selection of
     individual consultants will becarried out inaccordancewith the Consultant Guidelines.
     Subject to prior approval by the Bank, underthe circumstancesdescribed inparagraphs
     applicable to I C proceduresof the Consultant Guidelines, individual consultants may be
     awarded on a sole source basis.

For preparation of all technical specifications andTORSrequesting specific knowledge, the
beneficiary may hire experts, according to above procurement methods, which will also assist in
preparation of TS, TOR, evaluation and acceptanceof goods/works/services.

TrainingActivities

Training i s an integral element of the project's capacity buildingobjectives. The IDA Credit will
finance training programs, including on-the-job/apprenticeshiptraining. Expenditures relatedto
such training activities include: (a) for local training and workshops -facilitator's fees, per
diems of participants to cover transportation, lodgingand subsistence;minor organizational
expenses (stationery, handouts,trainingmaterials, coffee breaks).

The design of the training courseswill be done by the specialists contracted as short-term
consultants under relevant procurement procedures depending on the value of the assignment as
described above inthis Annex.

IncrementalRecurrent Costs

Incremental recurrent costs generatedby the project include the day-to-day operational costs for
office maintenanceand consumables, and incremental costs of operating and maintainingthe
equipmentprovided underthe project. These recurrent cost items and operating expenses
estimated at US$ 1.875 million will be planned for and executed on the basis of annual work
plans and budgets. Financing of incremental operating costs from the IDA Credit will be US$
1.5 million. Expenditure items will be reported under SOEs.




                                                  46

2.        Scheduling of Procurement

Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the proposedprocurement plan, including
selection of consultants, for the initial 18 months of the project will be submitted to IDA. Such
plan will be updated from time to time in accordancewith provisions of Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreementto cover succeeding 18months period(or longer).

3.        Prior Review Thresholds

IDA prior review of procurement processeswill cover the following: (a) equipment list,
schedule of requirements and technical specifications; (b) packagingof bids and updated cost
estimates; (c) biddingdocuments for goods, including Invitationto Bid, Instructionto Bidders
andData Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract, BidProposalForms;
(d) instructions for preparing quotations, conditions of contract andspecifications; (e) Request
for Proposal Documents for consultant services, includingLetter of Invitations, Instructionto
Consultants, General and Special Conditions of Contract, Terms of Reference, andProposal
Forms; (f) Shortlists of Consultants; and (g) technical and combinedevaluation reports and draft
contracts, recommendations for award. With respect to prior review of goods contracts and of
consultant contracts, the procedures set forth inparagraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1of the
respective Guidelines shall apply. It i s estimated that this prior review should cover 90 percent
of the value of all contracts combined for goods and services financed by the IDA Credit.

Fulldocumentation shouldbe submittedto IDA for prior review of the following procurement
contracts:

    (a)     All goods contracts awardedthrough ICB;
    (b)     Firsttwo contracts for goods awarded through shopping;
    (c)     Firsttwo contracts for works awardedthrough shopping;
    (d)     All consulting contracts over US$lOO,OOO with firms;
    (e)     Firsttwo consulting contracts bellow US$lOO,OOO with firms;
    (f)     All consulting contracts over US$50,000 with individualconsultants; and
    (g)     All Sole Source contracts with individualconsultants.

All other contractswill be subject to selective post-award reviews inaccordancewith the
proceduresdescribedin Appendix applicable to post review of the Procurement and Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                 47

                          Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                             (US$ millionequivalent)




   `Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the credit. All costs include contingencies.

    Includes goods to be procured through shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
   management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs relatedto (i)managing
   the project, and (ii)
                      re-lending project funds to local government units.




                        Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                             (US$ million equivalent)



    Consultant Services                                                                                             Total
  Expenditure Category            QCBS         QBS         SFB         LCS         CQ        Other      N.B.F.

A. Firms                           0.00        0.00        0.00        0.10       7.26       0.00         0.00      7.36
                                  (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.10)      (5.94)     (0.00)      (0.00)      (6.04)
B.Individuals                      0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00       1.84         0.00       1.84
                                  (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)      (1.51)      (0.00)      (1.51)

                         Total     0.00        0.00        0.00        0.10       7.26        1.84        0.00       9.20
                                  (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.10)     (5.94)     (1.51)      (0.00)      (7.55)




                                                            48

             Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

                             Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Expenditure Category           Threshold           Procurement Method         Prior Review
                           (US$ thousands)                                  (US$ millions)

1.Goods                        <>100,00                     ICB                   All
                                 100,000                  Shopping              Firsttwo




2. Services                 Firms>100,000                   QCBS                   All
                            Firms<100,000                    CQ                 Firsttwo
                                                            LCS                    All

                          Individuals>50,000                 IC                    All
                                                         Sole-Source               All




              Total value of contracts subject to prior review: About US$3 million

                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12months (includes
special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)




                                                49

CQ
0
a"u




 vr
 0
  c
 c,rd

  I
co
0
a"
0




       I - N

                           Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
          BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject


        The SecondEmployment Support Project with comparatively modest financial
resources of US$12.0 million leverage a larger non-financial reformoutcome of changing
behavioral change inthe employment service andjob brokerage delivery system and shifting
the comparatively larger resourcesof the PES of over US$60 million from social insurance
payments towards employment services.

        While the resources available to the PES are considerable, the majority of these are
spent on non-employment service activities. Less than 10percent of resources, excluding
credit programs, are spent on employment services andjob brokerage. The PELRPexperience
injob brokerage andemployment service delivery representsa significant portionof such
experience in BH(see table below). Healthinsurance, pension payments, cash benefits,
administrative costs and credit programs constitute over 75 percent of expenditures. Revenues
are generatedby unemployment insurance contributions which inthe FBHare at a rate of 2.5
percent of salarieswhile inthe RS are at a rate of 1.0 percent of salaries.

        The political and institutional unwillingness in the past to reform the employment
services from a slush fundincludingceasingnon-transparent credit programs has ledto a
situation where the international community has suggestedstrongly that the revenue base of
the employment institutes be reducedfrom an unemployment insurance contribution rate in
the FBHof 2.5 percent to as low as 1.5 percent or even 1.0percent.

        The SESPwould take the approachthat while employment services should definitely
not be involved incredit delivery andthat the history of repayments and tracking of these
credits makes it clear that they are ineffective at best, the program funds can be shifted
towards well defined and targetedsmall grants programs for income generation to the most
vulnerable job seekers following the approach taken by the PELRPfor self-employment in
agriculture; job placement and skills enhancement training programs; and small business
advise and support services.

    The PES inthe country haveminimalexperience inALMPs andjob brokerage. The PES
inthe FBHandthe RS have recently begun introducingsmall ALMPs. Inthe RSthe program
total KM4.36 million across all six of its regions while inthe FBHthe programs total KM
8.14 million across all 10cantons of which a majority of the finances or upto 70 percent are
for credit programs which means that less than a total of KM3.0 million was spent on ALMPs
inthe FBH.

    None of the funds allocated for ALMPs by PESs are well defined programs with clear
eligibility or targeting criteria. A majority of these initiatives fall under credit programs. The
PESs mainrole and activities have been incollectingunemployment insurance benefits and
distributing health insurance benefits and other cash benefits to those registered as
unemployed. A significant portion of their funds have been allocatedto credit programs.



                                               52

          Status of Regional Unemploymentand Delivery of Active Labor Market Programs 2002-2003

Regions                                                                     PESs'         %      PESs' ALMP Clients     PELRF'
                                                                            ALMP                                        Clients+
                                                                            funds
                                                                                                     I    I       I




RS                                                                                                                      2,096
Srpska
Sarajevo
Bijelena                 27,478                  6027
Trebinja                 9,667                   2017
Doboj                    23,921                  5160
BanjaLuka                45.477                  11.187
Prejidor
Federation
Tuzla                                                                       650,000       7          I294 I35           510
Posovina                                                                    150.000       13                      II90   130
Sarajevo                                                                     656,000   III4                             330
Travnik                                                                     1.000.000 I 32   I1II65 I     I 111 I 8 4    503
Zenica                                                                                                                   1100
Mostar                                                                                                                  598
Grude                                                                                                                    128
Livno                                                                       1,976,000*                                   89
Bihac                                                                       500,000*             322         700         500
Gorazde                                                                     400,000*                  500                145


        *A These expenditures include funds for credit programs
            Majority o f funds for credit and grant programs given to firms with the rationale that they employ job
        seekers.
        *+
        ++  Mainlyjunior internships programs funded by the FBHEmployment Institute.
           Mainly self-employment in agriculture and onjob placements with training




                                                             53

                       Annex 10: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
         BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject

                                                   Planned                      Actual
PCNreview                                      February 1,2004             February 12,2004
InitialPID to PIC
InitialISDS to PIC
Pre-Appraisal                                  February 1,2004             February 12,2004
QER                                                                         March 5,2004
Decision Review Meeting                         March 25, 2004              March 24,2004
Appraisal                                        April 1, 2004              April 22,2004
Negotiations                                    April 26,2004
Board/RVP approval                               June 15,2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                    October 1, 2004
Planned date of mid-termreview                   October 2006
Planned closing date                          September30,2008

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:

     0  Project ImplementationUnits for the PELRP(The Socio-Economic Support, Educationand
        Redeployment Unit of the FBHMinistry of Labor and Social Affairs; and RS Development
        and Employment Fund;
     0  FBHMinistry ofLabor andSocialAffairs ; RSMinistryofWar Victims, Veterans andLabor;
     0  Employment Institutesof the FBHand the RS;
     0  The Cantonal PESs inthe FBH;and
     0  The RegionalPESs inthe RS.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                           Title                           Unit
Maniza Naqvi                        Sr. Operations Officer, Task              ECSHD
                                           TeamLeader
GoranTinjic                             Operations Officer                    ECSHD
Nikola Kerleta                        Procurement Specialist                  ECSPS
Sanjay Vani                       Financial Managment Specialist              ECSPS
MarkWalker                                 Lead Counsel                       LEGEC
Carmen Laurente                          ProgramAssistant                     ECSHD
Fikret Causevic                      Labor Market Specialist                Consultant
Alan Abahart                      Employment Services Specialist            Consultant
Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$60,000
     2. Trust funds:
     3. Total: US$60,000

Estimated Approval and Supervisioncosts:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval:
     2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$lOO,OOO




                                               54

                    Annex 11:Documentsinthe ProjectFile
   BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINA: SecondEmploymentSupportProject


0 Initial Proposalsfrom 10cantonaland 6 regionalBranchesof EmploymentServices;
0 BeneficiaryAssessment for PELRP2003 andMarch2004;
0 RegionalanddemographicUpdateof UnemploymentandTargetingStudy March2004
  for SESP;
0 OperationsManualfor SESP;
0 Summaryof RecommendationsFromStakeholdersConsultationWorkshopfor SESP,
  September2003;
0 MidTerm Review of PELRPOctober 2002; and
0 ProjectDocumentsincludingAide MemoiresandBack To Office Reportsof PELRP.




                                    55

                            Annex 12: PublicEmploymentServices
                  BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINASecondEmploymentSupportProject

Introduction:As aresult of ongoing restructuring andreformprocessesthe
Public Sector Employment Services of Bosnia andHerzegovina comprise of two Employment
Institutes one ineach entity. Inthe FBHthe network includes ten cantonal level employment
service offices and 79 municipal level employment offices, while inthe RS there are six
regional offices and 57 municipal offices. The reform would include the SOSACII
conditionalities andthe recommendations made under the SOTAC functional review of
employment services (which included ceasing credit programs and creation of the newly
established StateLevel Employment agency as a unified agency for bothentities). The SESP
would seek to further the recommendedreforms for the function of the employment services.


                                    State Employment
                                    Agency


          FederationEmployment A                               Republika Srpska
          Institute Sarajevo                                   Employment Institute
                                    BrckoEmployment            Pale
                                    Office                   i

                     I            I                   I                    I



            10Canton                                                6 Regional
            Employment                                             Employment
            ServiceOffices                                         ServicesBranches




       79 MunicipalEmployment                                     57 MunicipalEmployment
       Services Offices                                           ServicesBureaus




                                            56

The PES system of BHremains to a large part structured to fill the needs of a centrally
plannedfull employment labor market system that no longer exists and to supply job vacancy
requirements of State enterprises that no longer function. A major portion of the PES budgets
expenditure are devoted to collecting and distributinghealth insurance and unemployment
insuranceregistration and benefits. Inthe FBH,unclear andnon-transparent credit programs
consume the majority of substantial revenues. The most important functions for the PESs, i.e.
job brokerage, and ALMPs remainthe least important functions for the BHPES given their
responsibilities as health benefitregisters.

Inthe FBH,the 2000 Law on Employment regulariseda structure with a single Entity level
Employment Institute and Cantonal Employment Services. The Employment Instituteinthe
RS (Pale) is basedon the Law on Employment andthe Realization of the Rightsof
Unemployed Personspassedin 1998 initially andthen revised in 2000. Brcko functions as a
separate district; the FBHhas 10 cantons and 79 municipalities (Mostar has recently become
one unifiedcity rather than 6 municipalities); RS has 62 municipalities of which 57 have
employment offices.

StateAgency for Employment: As a condition of SOSAC 11,State Agency was requiredto
have commenced operations. The Agency has been establishedand there appears to be
agreementon its size andits terms of reference. However, its budget i s still to be decided.
Accounts transferred from the former State Bureaumean that the Agency has funds available
but these are all from operations relatingto the FBHas there is yet no commitmentby the RS
to co-finance the Agency. This has to happenifthe Agency i s to be truly effective at the State
level. Inaddition, the Agency does not actually appear inthe 2004 Budget as a line item,
something that i s necessarybefore the Agency can be treated as a fully functioning state body.
The State Minister of Finance has committedto include the Agency inthe final Budget to be
announcedat the end of March.

Federation EmploymentServices: The PES systemcomprises the FBHEmployment Institute
inSarajevo; 10cantonal employment service offices and79 municipal offices. The sourceof
income i s mainly from the unemployment insurance contributions of (2.5 percent) andis
expectedto be Kh474 million in 2004; other sources of revenue include almost KM3 million
from other sources (fees for work permits, bank interest andother), and about KM9 million in
repayment of credits. The total income expected for 2004 will be KM86 million. A large
portion of the funds i s usedfor credit programs. Of the total revenue available, 30 percent i s
spent on credit programs inthe Federation.

Of the total revenuegenerated, approximately 74 percent is distributedto Sarajevo canton
employment service office (3 1percent) andFBH Employment Institute (43 percent) while the
remaining29 percent is spreadover nine other cantons. Total PES staff inthe FBHis 474.

Republika SrpskaEmployment Services:The RS PES consists of one Employment Institute
inPale; six regional branches(Banja Luka, Prijedor, Bijeljina, Trebinje, Doboj andSrpsko
Sarajevo); andemployment services bureaus in 57 municipalities. The RS PES has ceased
implementation of credit programs. Inaddition to this, its unemployment contribution is



                                              57

1percent. Its total available revenuesin2003 were KM4.7 millionwhile expenditure were
KM3.62 millionwhich includedKM0.375 millionfor ALMPs.ThePESStaff intheRS
numbersare 218.

Table 1provides the Revenue andExpenditures Tables for the PES inthe FBHand the RS.

Federation Institute and the Unemployment Insurance Contributions: Inthe FBH,the
PES consists of the FBHEmployment Institute FEIand 10Canton employment service
offices. Income for the PES comes mainly from unemployment insurance contributions (2.5
percent of wages). 70 percent of the contributions go to cantons in which they were collected
and 30 percent goes to the FEI. Underthe Law on Job Placement, the 30 percent can be seen
as a Solidarity Fund. If cantons are unable to meet their obligations to the unemployed from
their own (70 percent) funds, they may call on the Solidarity Fundfor assistance. If any funds
remain inthe Solidarity Fundafter such calls are made, the FEImay apply them to labor
market programs. To someextent the Solidarity Fundtherefore allows redistribution of
revenue from richer to poorer cantons. Ifcantons are abZe to meet their obligations they may
apply their own surpluses to labor market programs.Table 1shows the financial positionof
each of the cantonal employment services offices.

FederationEmployment Services and Credit Programs: As a condition of SOSAC II,               the
FEIis requiredto stop operatingits credit program. Itproposesinsteadto outsourcethe
managementof its reserves, still to be usedas a credit program for employers, to the
Investment Bankof the Federation (IBF). The intentioni s for the IBFto lendfinance to
employers seeking to employ new workers or to start up businesses. It will lendto borrowers
either directly or through commercial banks acting as intermediaries. While this proposal will
go a long way to overcoming some of the problems identifiedby the review of business
practices conducted inlate 2002, it still meansthat funds will not readily be available as
insurancereserves and still limitsthe funds available for targeted labor market programs. In
addition, the proposalcovers only the Institute's reserves andnot those of the cantons, which
may be larger. The underlyingproblem is really the highlevel of reserves heldthroughout the
FBH. Toreducethesereservesto amoremanageablelevelrequiredfor asustainable
insurancefund, the World Bank has supportedIMF,which has proposedto cut the
unemployment insurance contribution rate. However, the cut suggested, from 2.5 percent of
payroll to 1percent, goes so deep that it threatens the basic social protection objective of the
scheme. The Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs has suggestedthat the reduction be phased
(to 2%, to 1.5%, to 1%). The World Bank would support this but does not consider that a cut
below 1.5% i sjustified. Even at 1.5 percent, a number of cantons would have to call on both
their own reserves andthose of the FEIto maintainpayments to the unemployed even at
current levels of unemployment. Discussions between the authorities, the IMFandthe Bank
will need to continue on the most appropriate resolution of this question.

Unemployment Insurance Contributions: A major portion of the PES revenuebase comes
from collection of unemployment contributions from employers for their registered
employees. This rate i s 2.5 percent inthe FBH(expected to go down to 1.5 percent) and has
beenreducedto 1percent inthe RS.




                                              58

Health Insurance Benefits. The PES have the responsibility of distributinghealthinsurance
benefits. This i s the major incentive for people to register with the PES as unemployed
regardless of whether they have found employment inthe private sector or in agriculture.

Definition of Employment: Workers inthe agriculture sector or farmers are not classified as
employed and are therefore registered as unemployed.

Active Labor Market Programs: The RS (total of KM370,000); andthree cantons inthe
Federation (Tuzla KM316,000; Sarajevo KM606,000; and Zenica KM486,000) currently
implement ALMPs. These programs are relatively small interms of financial resources and
personssupported compared.

Credit Programs: These have been discontinued inthe RS while inthe FBHthey are planned
for discontinuation. Currently a major portion of the FBHPES budget is tied inthese credit
programs.

A functional review of the employment institutes was undertaken under the SOTAC which
was implemented by the PELRP PlU inthe FBH, representing the Ministry of Labor and
Social Affairs and the RS Development and Employment Foundation, representing the
Ministry of Veterans, War Casualties and Labour ,requested a special review of the
Employment Institutes o f the FBH.The review includedan analysis of the following key areas
of each employment institute:

e   Recent history and new developments;
e   Principal activities;
e   Economic dependence (Le. sources of funds);
e   Business strategy, objectives andoperational procedures;
e   Management structure andorganisation of all key programs and functions;
e   Reporting lines and divisions of responsibility;
e   The structure of relevant decision making vehicles, especially in relation to pay-out
    decisions;
e   The numbers of employees by category;
e   Ability of employees to service the programneeds;
e   Accounting and financial reportingpolicies;
e   Financial budgeting and controlling procedures and activities;
e   Financial reporting processes and procedures transparency;
e   Other activities and procedures related to the Finance function; and
e   Overview o f the IT/IS environment (Le. IT/IS systems used, operating system, hardware
    parameters, network architecture, system objectives, data flow, controls).

FinancialCircumstances of the Public EmploymentServicesinthe FBH
Financial circumstances of the PES inthe FBH,including income allocation, were described
above. Due to these circumstances, the IMFhas proposed that the contribution rate be
reduced to 1percent of wages. Recent progress in this area could be summarized as follows:




                                              59

    All Canton Employment Services andthe FEIhavereserves, most of themheldby
    cantons.
    The FEIhaspreviously usedits reservesto maintain acredit program. It proposesto
    continue this in 2004 although managementof the program will be outsourced to a bank.
    It is not knownwhat plans the cantons may have.
    The Plan includes a line item"Subventions to Organizations". There i s to be a significant
    increase inthis itemto the point that it will cost almost as much as unemployment
    benefits.
    Proposalsto reduceunemployment insurance contributions from 2.5 percent of wages to
    1percentwill haveadestructive effect on the finances of the PES. At the very least the
    contribution rate should not be reducedbelow 1.5 percent.

"discretionary expenditure i s also about KM86 million:
0   KM 17millionto be spent onoperatingcostsis abithighbutthat can largely beputdown
    to the structure of the government inthe FBH.
0   An increaseinofficerenovations is planned, pushingcapital expenditure upto KM2
    million.
0   Expenditure on unemployment benefits will account for about KM 15 million, equivalent
    to only about 20 percent of contributions.
0   Healthinsurance andthe payment of pensions insurance accountsfor another KM 11
    million or so.
0   The amount to be spent on subventions to organizations i s to jump 4-fold to KM 12
    million. Inthe first half of 2003, about KM 1.25 million hadbeen spent on subventions: 3
    cantons spent nothing; another five spent a total of KM200,000; Zenica Canton had spent
    over KM800,000; and the FEIhadspent about KM250,000 for this purpose. It seems
    another KM2 million must have been spent inthe secondhalf of the year. FEIhad
    explained that subventions were small gifts to organizations doing something relevant in
    the labor market (no list is available but student organizations were mentioned as
    recipients). At over KM 12 million, subventions for 2004 will be more than health
    insurance and almost as much as unemployment benefits.
0   Credits approved in2003 will disburse another KM25 million, on top of the KM39
    million disbursedin2003 itself.

There is another KM39 million available for discretionary spending. The table shows it i s all
earmarkedfor credit programs. It is not clear how money i s divided between the cantons and
FEIbutmuchof itmustbe at canton level. The FEI's Management Boardrecently decided
that the FEIshould not runcredit programs. However, this decision appearsto refer only to
the FEI's own involvement. The FEIi s actually intendingto outsource the management of its
credit program to a bank. The bank would lendmoney to employers usingbank lending
criteria but only for projects that fall within FEIguidelines.

The FEIdecision does not apply to the cantons. There is no information on how the canton
reservesare to be managed. This is a major concern, particularlyfor Sarajevo canton whose
reservesare at least comparable to and probably greater than the FEI.

Proposalto Reduce Contribution Rate


                                                60

Some canton governments are said to have asked for access to the reserves intheir cantons in
order to use them for other purposesbut have beenrefusedby the FEI. That they have asked
for access i s not surprising; large reservesoften appear attractive and come under threat.

Reservesmust be smaller and more acceptable. This i s why the World Bank has supported
moves to reduce unemployment insurance contributions. However, care has to betaken not to
reduce the contributionrate beyonda point that social protection is threatened.

Ifthe contributionratewere reducedfrom 2.5 percent to 1.5percentrevenue will fall by about
KM30 milliona year, areduction to 1percentwouldreducethe revenueby aboutKM45
million. If there is to be arate reduction it probably would not occur before the secondhalf of
2004, perhaps not before 2005. But once it happens, the PES will need to access its reserves
to meet its obligations to the unemployed. If   the reserveshave been disbursed as loans to
employers they will hardly be liquid.

The tables on the following pages give an assessment of what the 2004 picturewould be like if
the contributionrate were reduced to either 1.5 or 1.0 percent.

The final picture i s presentedinTables 3A and 3B. These table have been derived by using
the pattern of revenues andexpenditure between the cantons in 2003 (Tables 2A and 2B)
updatedto reflect the FinancialPlan shown inTable 1.

Table 3B shows that if contributions are reducedto 1.5 percent up to six of the cantons could
have an operating deficit. Overall, though, the FBHPES would remainin surplus. Inthis
case the Law on Job Placement legislates that the Solidarity Fundwould be usedto distribute
funds to cantons with deficits. However, the FEIwould still be left with a surplus that could
be usedfor ALMPs.

Table 3B also shows that if contributions are reducedto 1percent all but one canton (Mostar -
see caveat) could have operating deficits andthe Solidarity Fundwould be in sufficient to
cover the needs of the cantons. The Law on Job Placement requires that the SolidarityFund
be distributedon a pro-rate basis to cantons with deficits.

Caveats:The actual plans for the cantons was not available when this paper was prepared.
The historical data for the cantonsrefer only to the first six months of 2003 andat that time
Mostar was handledby the FEI. The data for Mostar with respectto assistance for the
unemployed have been estimated. The data for Mostar with respect to salaries andexpenses
are still included inFEI.

Notwithstanding:Ifrevenue i s reducedto KM30 million and the cantons are spendingover
KM26 million on (legislated) benefitsto the unemployeditisfairly obvious that, evenatthe
current steady state, a 1percent contribution rate i s not sustainable.




                                               61

1


3
m
U
0



  U
  0


                          Bosnia and Herzegovina


                               Statement of IFC's
                           HeldandDisbursed Portfolio
                               As of 2/29/2004
                            (InUS Dollars Millions)

                                        Held                 Disbursed

FYApproval Company            Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1997199/01102 BosniaMicro      3.79      0      0    0 3.79      0    0       0
2001104       CPB              12.64 5.18       0    0    0      0    0       0
         1997 EnterpriseFund       0  1.95      0    0    0   1.26    0       0
        2002 FCL               12.64     0      0 3.16 12.64     0    0 3.16
        2001 PBS-SPV           13.69 2.31    0.13    0 13.69  2.31 0.13       0
        2002 Raiffeisen-BOS    18.35     0      0    0 10.76     0    0       0
         1998 SEFAkova          1.23     0      0    0 1.23      0    0       0
1999101       SEFBosnalijek     1.87     0      0    0 1.87      0    0       0
         1998 SEFLignosper     2.68      0      0    0 2.33      0    0       0
         1999 SEFLijanovici     1.45     0      0    0  1.45     0    0       0
         1997 Sarajevska       0.83      0      0    0 0.83      0    0       0
         1998 Wood Agency-AL   5.77      0     0     0    0      0    0       0
              Wood Inga        2.04      0      0    0 0.41      0    0       0
             Wood Konjuh         2.9     0      0    0 2.57      0    0       0
             Wood Kozara       2.04      0      0    0  1.71     0    0       0
             Wood Podgradci     1.39     0      0    0  1.14     0    0       0
             Wood Vrbas        2.04      0      0    0 0.41      0    0       0

         Total Portfolio:      85.35 9.44    0.13 3.16 54.83  3.57  0.13  3.16


          Approvals PendingCommitment
                              Loan Equity Quasi Partic
        2002 Lukavac           9.93      0      0 2.48

   Total PendingCommitment:    9.93      0      0 2.48




                                  66

                                              Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                       BOSNIAAND HERZEGOVINASecondEmploymentSupportProject
                 Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                                5/17/04


                                                          Bosnia Europe &       Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                             and  Central     middle-
                                                    Herzegovina      Asia      income      Developmentdiamond.
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                                4.2     473        2,408                    Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                           1,540   2,160        1,400
GNI (Aflas mefhod, US$billions)                               6.4   1,023        3,372

Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population(%)                                                 2.2      0.0         0.9
Laborforce (%)                                                2.4      0.5         1.2     GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                           per                                    primary
Most recent estimate(latest year available, 1997-03)                                       capita                             enrollment
Povertyp? ofpopulationbelownationalpoveftyline)                20
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                         44      64          49
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                 74      69          69
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                          15      31          32
Childmalnutrition (% ofchildrenunder5)                          4                    9           Accessto improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                      91           81
Illiteracy("A ofpopulationage 15+)                                       3          13
Grossprimaryenrollment p? of school-agepopulation)                    103          112        -Bosnia         andHerzegovina
    Male                                                              104          113                 Lower-middle-income roup
    Female                                                            102          111

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1983       1993   2002         2003       Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                                      5.6         7.0
Gross domesticinvestmenVGDP                                          20.4         19.9
Exportsof goodsandservicedGDP                                        26.2         26.0                         Trade

Gross domesticsavings/GDP                                           -13.4        -12.5                                                    II
                                                                                                                 T
Grossnationalsavings/GDP                                                                                         T

Current accountbaiance/GDP                                          -18.5        -17.4
InterestpaymentslGDP                                                   1.2         0.7      Domestic                          Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                       42.2         34.0      savings

Total debt servicelexports                                             8.5         7.8
Presentvalue of debVGDP
Presentvalue of debtlexports
                                                                                                            Indebtedness
                                     1983-93 199343          2002    2003      200347
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        ..     17.8        3.9      3.5         4.7          -Bosnia        andHerzegovina
GDP percapita                              ..     15.4        2.4      2.6         4.4                  Lower-middle-incomeQrouproup      I
Exports of goodsand services               ..     23.7        5.3     11.5         6.1


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                  1983       1993    2002        2003     1 Growth of  Investmentand GDP(   O h )
 (99 of GDP)                                                                                                                              I
Agriculture                                                           179         167      40

Industry                                                              372         347
    Manufacturing                                                     226         21 0     2o

Services                                                             449          486      'O
                                                                                            0
Privateconsumption                                                                                   98    99     w     01       02   03
Generalgovernment consumption
Importsof goods and services                                          59.2        57.9                  -GDI           -GDP


                                               1983-93 1993-03       2002         2003
 (average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                           ..      8.0
 Industry                                             ..     26.2
    Manufacturing                                     ..     17.0
 Services                                             ..     37.2

 Private consumption
 General government COflSUmptiOn
 Gross domesticinvestment                             ..     35.6                                     -Exports         -.0-lmports
 Importsof goods and sewices                          ..     11.2     -1.9        10.6


 -
 Note:2003data are preliminary estimates.Group data are for 2002.
   The diamonds showfour key indicatorsinthe country(inbold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage. if dataare missing,the diamondwill
     be incomplete.


                                                                 67

                                                                                Bosnia and Herzegovina

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1983 1993    2002   2003
Domesticprices
("9change)
Consumerprices                                         0.3    0.1
ImplicitGDP deflator                                   2.1    1.I

Governmentfinance
("9of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                      48.1   46.7
Current budgetbalance                                  6.3    4.5            -GDPdeflator                          I
Overall surplusldeficit                               -2.2    0.4                                 *CPI


TRADE
                                        1983 1993    2002   2003
(US$mil/ions)                                                          Exportand importlevels(US$ mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                                 1,046   1,407    4.500 7
  Commodity1                                                         4,000
  Commodity2                                                         3 5w
  Manufactures                                                       3,000
                                                                     2 500
Total imports (cif)                                 3,122   3,845    Z D W
  Food                                                               1.5W
  Fuel and energy                                                     1.000
                                                                     1  500                                        I
  Capital goods                                                           0

Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                                                 97    98   sa   00      01     02

Importprice index (1995=100)                                                         Expons         .Imports   O3
Terms of trade (1995=100)

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$millions)                                                        1 Current accountbalanceto GDP1%)
Exports of goods andservices                        1,786   2,277       0
Importsof goods and services                        3,387   4,132       5
Resourcebalance                                     .1,601 -1,855     -10
Net income                                            248             -15
Net currenttransfers                                  566     831     4 0
Currentaccountbalance                               -1,035 .I,224     -25

Financingitems (net)                                  977     798
Changes in net reserves                                              ,1-30
                                                        58    446

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$mi//ions)                         1,418
Conversionrate (DEC,/cca//US$)                         2.1    1.7

EXTERNALDEET and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$mi//ions)                                                        I Compositionof 2003 debt(US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                2,502   2,538
  IBRD                                         424     538    515
  IDA                                            0     578    613    1                  G: 65

Total debt service                                     150    191
  IBRD                                          0       45     42
  IDA                                           0        4      4

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                32
  Officialcreditors                                     70     51
  Privatecreditors                                      18    -30
  Foreigndirect investment
  Porifolioequity

World Bank program
  Commitments                                                   0      A. IBRD                        E Bilateral
                                                                                                          ~

  Disbursements                                  0      97     35      8. IDA    D Othermultilateral F Pnvate
                                                                                  -                    -
  Principal repayments                           0      23     23      C IMF
                                                                          -                           G short-term
  Netflows                                       0      74     12
  Interestpayments                               0      26     23
  Nettransfers                                   0      48    -11


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                         5/17/04




                                                  68

MAP SECTION


