                        PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                        CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                 Report No.: AB621
 Project Name                    Social Protection Labor Markets and Empl
 Region                          EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
 Sector                          Other social services (100%)
 Project ID                      P084596
 Borrower(s)                     GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
 Implementing Agency             Socio Economic support, education and redeployment Unit
                                 Federation Ministry of Labor Phone: 00387 33279180
                                 and Development and Employment Foundation, Republika Srpska
                                 Phone: 00387 51221 270
 Environment Category            [ ] A [ ] B [X] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Safeguard Classification        [ ] S1 [ ] S2 [ ] S3 [ ] SF [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared               January 15, 2004
 Estimated Date of               April 9, 2004
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board         July 1, 2004
 Approval


1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
The main challenge of Bosnian policymakers is to encourage businesses to create more jobs, as
well as to promote an efficient and equitable reallocation of labor. Redeployment of retrenched
workers from privatized public sector firms and the military and inadequate employment services
to support them continue to be key development challenges for the labor market in the transition
economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina.



2. Proposed objective(s)

Primary Objective: Support income earning opportunities for the unemployed. Secondary
objective: Encourage and develop capacity and competitiveness for effective employment
services in the public and private sectors.


3. Preliminary description

The SLRP would be a repeater-plus project, it would (1) support access to income earning
opportunities and employment through active labor market programs for individuals who meet
an eligibility criteria; and (2) build capacity of institutions responsible for employment services
in the public and private sector by transferring experience of the PELRP. The PELRP currently
contracts private sector "service providers" for on the job training as well as skills training
programs. Under the second project private sector employment services may be considered as
one of the participating agencies eligible for submitting proposals for contracts. Such an option
would provide for healthy competition and incentives for the public sector (ES)to perform. The

proposed project would build on the experience of the PELRP but would move a step further in
strengthening the capacity of a select number of ESOs in selected regions to provide a range of
services including:

    (i)    Counseling Services: provide advice to jobseekers, to provide them with vocational
           orientation, and to provide them with labor market information
    (ii)   On the Job Training (placement of clients in existing job vacancies with
           incentives/fees to employers for their training and a portion of their wages for a
           limited period of time.). Under the PELRP a total of 1558 ex-soldiers were placed in
           existing jobs and were trained in these positions. The PIUs identified at least 2500
           vacancies which remained unfilled and unwanted by ex-soldiers, largely due to
           mobility and expectations issues.
    (iii)  Self employment: in agriculture was the most in demand and therefore successful
           subcomponent under the PELRP and 3939 ex-soldiers with land and family know
           how were placed in income earning opportunities with the provision of livestock and
           farm implements. Another 103 ex-soldiers were assisted with their small business
           activities.
    (iv)   Job fare/Public Works: This would be a new area to develop. All applicants would
           first need to agree to taking job fare types of work to show their need for employment
           support. Public works in the context of ECA could include providing social services
           type care for the elderly. This is a self-targeting mechanism used in other ECA
           countries and will be explored in the second project. This would merit consideration
           and would be designed to screen for those who are the most needy ­ the poorest ­ in
           the economy.
    (v)    Business advisory services (assistance through advise on cooperatives, registration of
           business, proposal writing for loans, etc),
    (vi)   Skills enhancement and training (placing clients in vocational training and skills
           enhancement courses such as computer and language training, retraining and higher
           education). Under the PELRP a total of 167 ex-soldiers were placed in institutional
           training which including English language, computers, driving lessons; while 23 were
           supported to for their higher education.
    (vii)  Maintaining up dated databases on service providers, job vacancies, firms, training
           institutions and active job seekers.
    (viii) Screening genuine active job seekers.
    (ix)   Building the capacity of employment services in extension agents/counselors.

The two PELRP-PIUs (Federation and RS) would be responsible for transferring the experience
under the first project to EIs; selecting a number of their ES offices; and monitoring their
performance against agreed performance benchmarks. Thiswould include the operations manual
for identifying and selecting eligible beneficiaries, assessing needs according to their skills,
maintaining updated databases on beneficiaries and job vacancies; contracting and hiring of
service providers.. The PIUs functions would be to monitor and supervise the overall
implementation of the project, including procurement and FMS functions of the ESs; training of
employment officers and reporting to the Government and the World Bank on progress. The
proposed project would support the capacity building of competitive employment services both
in the private and public sector

PIUs would select organizations based on its competitive procurement procedures to act as
service providers or `agents' on behalf of the projects. These agents (referred to in PELRP as
service providers) would based on the screen criteria developed by the PELRP/SLRP select
unemployed clients to assist. These service providers or agents could include existing
employment agencies, training companies, NGOs, or all entities with the capacity and experience
to undertake the provision of services to unemployed individuals. Contracts between
agencies/service providers would be the same as those currently carried out under the PELRP. If,
ES/EIS agree to participate then the same terms and conditions and contract would be used to
engage with them. The strength of the PIUs includes having developed such contract agreements.
The PIUs would issue tenders for activities nationwide for the provision of services in a number
of selected locations. The local ESO would be eligible to bid for such a contract as well. This
constructive pressure would aim to encourage ESOs albeit in a limited number of localities to
compete with the private sector.

The SLRP could have a strategic approach for impact and demonstration effect by focusing on
three areas one each in Central Bosnia, Herzegovina and in RS, in places such as Zenica or a
mining town where large retrenchments have taken place or will take place.

Lessons learned under the PELRP included (i) high ownership politically for the project from a
large variety of stakeholders (ii) a demand driven approach to services for clients based on skills
and needs assessments (iii) screening and determining needs and tailoring services accordingly
(iv) providing counseling services and needs assessment prior to retrenchment is advantageous to
effectiveness of programs (v) building trust with clients towards employers in the private sector
takes time because clients still cling to the hope that times will revert to large state owned
enterprises and assured jobs for all (vi) developing an orientation towards a business culture is a
process learned through demonstration of success (vii) the development of the capacity of
service providers to provide timely and quality advise to clients in agriculture and in business
development was a key to successful support in self employment (ix) an updated database system
of job brokerage i.e. unemployed clients; vacancies and other income earning opportunities was
vital (x) enthused and interested extension agents who worked as counselors for their caseloads
were the source, frontline and central to the multi direction informational flow between
unemployed clients, employers, other service providers, market information and were therefore
pivotal to the success of the project.


4. Safeguard policies that might apply
Not Applicable.

5. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                               ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                       0.5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                                                   12
                                                                          Total        12.5

6. Contact point

Contact: Maniza Naqvi
Title: Senior Operations Officer, Task Team Leader
Tel: (202) 458-1938
Fax: (202)477-3387
Email: Mnaqvi@worldbank.org

wb22259
C:\2004.02.21.PID.doc
February 21, 2004 3:23 PM

