Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3927 BOS 
 
Federation Project Agreement 
 
(Second Employment Support Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
Dated July 21, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER  3927 BOS 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 2004 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
(the Federation). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Federation agrees to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federation (the Subsidiary Credit Agreement), the Borrower will make available to the 
Federation a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Federation, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part A of the Project 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, labor, financial, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the Federation shall carry out 
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Federation shall duly perform its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Federation shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Federation shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Federation of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit Agreement.  
 
Section 2.05. (a) The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of 
Part A of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Federation shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and the Federation a plan for the future operation of Part A 
of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Federation on said plan. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE III
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) 
The Federation shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Association) audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other period 
agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Federation’s reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Federation shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which:  
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds;  
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
Section 
3.03 
The Federation shall cause the Federation PIU to ensure that 
Participating Federation ESOs maintain appropriate financial records and accounts for each 
Annual Service Delivery Agreement and the Service Contracts related thereto, which records and 
accounts: 
 
(a) 
 will be in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable 
to the Association; 
 
(b) 
 will be adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Service Contracts to which the Participating Federation ESOs are each respectively a party; 
and 
 
(c) 
will 
be 
provided 
to 
the 
Federation 
PIU 
auditors 
appointed 
under                 
Section 3.01(b)(i) of this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE IV
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the later of:  
(i) 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes 
effective; and  
(ii) 
the date when this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto. 
 
Section 4.02. (a)  This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the 
Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the two following dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify the Federation of this event. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so 
specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Federation: 
 
Federation 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Mehmeda Spahe 5 
 
71000
Sarajevo 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
387 33 203 152 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Federation or by the 
Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
Page  8
-
7
-
executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other person or persons as the Federation shall 
designate in writing, and the Federation shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Sarajevo, 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Shengman Zhang 
Authorized Representative 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Niko Lozancic 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Federation shall maintain the Federation PIU within the Federation MOL until the 
completion of the Project, with adequate staff, funds, facilities and other resources required for 
this purpose in a manner satisfactory to the Association. The Federation PIU shall be responsible 
for the overall implementation, management, coordination, supervision and monitoring of Part A 
of the Project in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
The Federation shall adopt and thereafter maintain the Operations Manual, and shall also 
maintain the Subsidiary Credit Agreement, in form and content satisfactory to the Association, 
and shall duly perform all its obligations under the Operations Manual and the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement and shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
assigning, abrogating or waiving the Operations Manual or the Subsidiary Credit Agreement 
without obtaining the prior approval of the Association. 
3. 
The Federation shall maintain the Project Account in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, wherein shall be deposited: 
(i) 
 its share of the Project costs for the implementation of the Project, and 
replenish such account on a quarterly basis in an amount of $20,000 
equivalent, during the implementation of the Project; and 
(ii) 
the monies payable by the Participating Federation ESOs in accordance 
with the terms of the Annual Service Delivery Agreements. 
4. 
The Federation shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association, the carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about October 31, 2006 integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved 
in the carrying out of Part A of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Part A of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by November 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter, including, without limitation, such 
measures as to the Association may seem reasonably warranted in the circumstances if the 
Page  10
-
9
-
Borrower and the Association should then agree that certain Project implementation-related 
functions and responsibilities initially discharged by the Federation PIU would be assumed by the 
Cantonal employment service offices in the Federation until completion of the Project. 
 
5. 
The Federation shall implement Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project in accordance with 
the Operations Manual and with the selection criteria, the procedures and upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
6. 
The Federation shall cause the Federation PIU to enter into Annual Service Delivery 
Agreements with Participating Federation ESOs, as well as Service Contracts with Participating 
Federation ESOs and a private or public entity selected by the Federation PIU and the relevant 
Participating Federation ESO, in accordance with the terms and conditions, as well as the 
selection criteria, provided in the Operations Manual. 
 
Page  11
-
10
 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement  
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods under Part A of the Project which  meet the requirements of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
Page  12
-
11
 -
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  13
-
12
 -
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Parts B of this Schedule; and (ii) the 
first two contracts procured under Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Schedule; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants for services under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  14
-
13
 -
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  15
-
14
 -
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant 
Guidelines or for Project audits, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated at least once every twelve (12) months during the 
execution of the Project, for the succeeding eighteen (18) month period, and each such updating 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to 
time) as shall have been approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With  respect  to:  (i)  each  contract  for  the  employment  of  consulting  firms                
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, as well as each contract awarded on a sole 
source basis for firms; (ii) all contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (iii) all contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants selected on a sole source basis; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report 
on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
 
Page  16
-
15
 -
