Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB710 
Project Name 
Second Employment Support Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P084596 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
Implementing Agency 
 
 
Government of Bosnia-Herzegovina 
Bosnia-Herzegovina 
 
 
Project Implementation Units in Federation and Republika Srpska 
of Bosnia and Hezegovina 
Antuna Branka Simica 4, Sarajevo 
Narue/byrsac 7/11, Banja Luka, Srpska 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Bosnia-Herzegovina 
Tel: 387-71-655-155  Fax: 387-71-655-155 
pelrp@bih.net.ba,sbogunovic@rsdef.org 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 23, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 9, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
July 1, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
 The Poverty Reduction Strategy for Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted by parliament in January 
2004 recognizes that increase in employment can be expected mainly in the private sector and 
that employment would best be addressed through measures for encouraging entrepreneurship 
and reform across all sectors including in the provision of employment services and job 
brokerage. The PRSP sets its context for the labor market in the implementation of vital reforms 
in the mid term period of 2004-2005 in the public sector  which would cause reduction of  jobs. 
The strategy for reduction of unemployment includes the (i) reform of the employment services 
from their current primary role as social insurance providers to employment services and job 
brokerage; the removal of credit programs from employment services; and a unified employment 
service for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ii) strengthening of the single economic space 
and removal of market fragmentation, eliminate job discrimination and increase labor mobility  
and (iii) recognizing legitimate income earning opportunities currently relegated to the informal 
sector as employment. 
 
Page  2
 
 
In support of this strategy the Bank has focused its support to the Government on reforming 
social protection and labor market policy, furthering privatization and  implementing 
demonstrable approaches for effective income generation and job creation measures through the 
adjustment operations SOSAC, SOTAC, PITAC, EMSAC and investment lending operations of 
PELRP and LIPII. 
 
Major findings of the labor market study and the experience of the Pilot Emergency Labor 
Redeployment Project (PELRP) confirm that BiH labor markets continue to experience the 
accumulated imbalances caused by the war and transition as well as residual rigidities of the 
previous system: (1) Data on registered unemployment vastly exaggerate true prevalence of 
Unemployment.  Unemployment rate is in the range of 16%-20%  or 190,000 persons 
unemployed. According to the 2001 labor force survey, out of  the total registered unemployed in 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, only slightly less than a quarter  qualified as unemployed under the 
standard ILO-OECD definition. The rest were either employed (another quarter) or inactive (51 
percent.  The main reason for unemployment registration appears to be free access to health 
services, obtained upon registration. As of November 2003 there were 304,829 persons 
registered as unemployed with the employment bureaus in the FbiH; (2)Job creation and 
reallocation of jobs in the formal sector has been slow particularly in the RS and the  formal 
sector workforce has become considerably older, while young workers have been denied access 
to formal sector jobs; this has contributed to a  and a large informal sector in BiH with most of 
informal employment including for the young and women  taking  place in the sector of small-
scale agriculture/farming (47 percent), in construction (17 percent), and in manufacturing (9 
percent). The majority of informal workers are employed by private employers, 28 percent are 
self-employed, and about one fifth are contributing family members, This finding is borne out by 
the experience of PELRP and LIPII; (3)Workers in agriculture are not considered as employed;  
(4) There is low formal sector labor force participation, and female labor force participation is 
among the lowest in the region;  (5) Worker mobility has been modest due to constraints in inter-
entity mobility; relocation within entities and restructuring of state enterprises and housing 
availability; (6) Despite the overall context of a stagnant labor market, private firms  have been 
much more dynamic in all aspects of job flows, including net employment growth and (7) A 
rigid wage determination system stands in the way of job creation and worker mobility.
 
  
2. Objectives 
  1) Provision of employment services for an estimated 10,000 people  who are either recently 
retrenched and above 45 and/or those who actively seeking jobs for two or more years in RS and 
Federation  and 2) Further reform agenda to bring behavioral change and business change in the 
Employment services by focusing the PES on providing  effective   job brokerage services; 
providing employment assistance programs, including counseling services and programs to 
assistant the unemployed; and providing analytical and information services including 
disseminating labor market information. The SESP would use its  financial resources to leverage 
significant non financial outcomes of change in focus and approaches for the employment 
services. 
 
Key indicators would be (1)the successful delivery of ALMP and job brokerage services to an 
estimated 10,000 active job seekers and most vulnerable groups of unemployed (2)behavorial 
change in employment services through an increased focus on job brokerage and ALMPs and a 
Page  3
 
 
reduction of activities unrelated to employment (3)cleaning of registered lists from those who 
have jobs to the registering and identification of active job seekers (4) effective mediation 
between employers and job seekers (5) establishment of procedures and
 processes for 
dissemination of timely job vacancies and labor market information (6) inclusion of private 
sector providers of ALMPs (8) formal inclusion of agricultural workers as employed. 
 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank’s involvement through the SESP in furthering the reform agenda of transforming the 
PES and of mitigating the affects of retrenchment is highly relevant with respect to both timing 
and substance.  BIH is likely to experience, starting in 2004, significant movements in its labor 
market which will include substantial job shedding in the corporate and government sectors (the 
latter including, but not exclusively, defense). The proposed project would therefore contribute 
significantly to the formulation and implementation of mitigation policies, which the 
Government is under high pressure to establish and to further the reform and change in the 
employment services towards effect job brokerage and active labor market programs.  The Bank 
has a lead role to play in labor market policy based on its analytical and operational work on 
labor markets including ALMPs  and labor redeployment in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in 
South Eastern Europe.   This work includes the experience gained under the Pilot Emergency 
Labor Redeployment project PELRP which constitutes a significant portion of all ALMP 
experience in Bosnia and Herzegovina.; the functional review of the employment services 
conducted under the Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC) and the reform policy 
furthered by  the Second Social Adjustment Credit, as well as the Microfinance operations under 
the first and second Local Initiatives Projects. The likely wave of retrenchments would be a 
direct or indirect result of policies supported by other Bank operations (EMSAC for downsizing 
in the government sector, PTAC for possible privatization-related job losses, BAC for labor 
downsizing as a result of bankruptcy)  SOSACII in turn provides support for the establishment of 
better targeted and more efficient safety nets.  
 
The proposed operation would be fully consistent 
with the Bank's program in the current and future CAS. 
 
 
 
 
4. Description 
1. 
 
 
 
2. 
 Lending instrument 
The SESP would be a four year investment lending operation which would (1) repeat successful 
experience and approaches tested under the PELRP and would support access to  income earning 
opportunities and employment  through active labor market programs for individuals who meet 
an eligibility criteria for vulnerable active job seekers;  and (2) build the capacity of employment 
services in the public and private sector by transferring the experience gained under the PERLP 
project.   The proposed project would build on the experience of the PELRP by transferring its 
implementation experience  to the employment services and  strengthening their capacity to 
provide a range of job brokerage and ALMP services.    
 
Page  4
 
 
3.  Project development objective and key indicators 
 1) Provision of employment services for an estimated 10,000 people  who are either recently 
retrenched and above 45 and/or those who actively seeking jobs for two or more years in RS
 
and 
Federation  and 2) Further reform agenda to bring behavioral change and business change in the 
Employment services by focusing the PES on providing  effective   job brokerage services; 
providing employment assistance programs, including counseling services and programs to 
assistant the unemployed; and providing analytical and information services including 
disseminating labor market information. The SESP would use its  financial resources to leverage 
significant non financial outcomes of change in focus and approaches for the employment 
services. 
 
Key indicators would be (1)the successful delivery of ALMP and job brokerage services to an 
estimated 10,000 active job seekers and most vulnerable groups of unemployed (2)behavorial 
change in employment services through an increased focus on job brokerage and ALMPs and a 
reduction of activities unrelated to employment (3)cleaning of registered lists from those who 
have jobs to the registering and identification of active job seekers (4) effective mediation 
between employers and job seekers (5) establishment of procedures and processes for 
dissemination of timely job vacancies and labor market information (6) inclusion of private sector 
providers of ALMPs (8) formal inclusion of agricultural workers as employed. 
 
 
4. 
 Project components: 
 
 
The project has three components (1) Provision of job brokerage and active labor market 
programs or employment assistance programs, including counseling services and programs to 
assistant the unemployed; and (2)Institution building and technical assistance to Employment 
Services (3) Project Management (details in Annex ) 
 
  
1. 
 Active Labor Market Programs and Job Brokerage Services (US$9.0 million): 
Would focus the employment services on matching employers with job vacancies to 
appropriately skilled active job seekers and would focus the employment services on 
providing, through private sector service providers, income earning opportunities to 
active job seekers and to the hardcore unemployed based on the experience of the 
PELRP. Activities under this component would include: counseling services; on the job 
training; support for self employment in agriculture, agribusiness, small businesses; job 
fair and public works; business advisory services and skills enhancement training. 
 
2. 
Institution Building and Technical Assistance to the PES (US$1.5 million):
 Would 
upgrade and strengthen the PES capacity to provide and outsource job brokerage and 
employment services programs through the development of effective procedures,  clear 
guidelines and regulations, staff training and the piloting of analytical labor market 
information systems including introducing labor market research units in the Ministries 
of Labor.  
 
Page  5
 
 
Project Management (US$1.50million): 
 Would support the project implementation and 
coordination between all partners in the SESP.  The project would be managed by the project 
implementation units and would include the supervision and monitoring of all components under 
the project as well as the knowledge transfer to and training of participating agencies (PES). The 
PELRP PIUs served as a significant source of competition for employment services in delivering 
ALMPs. The role of the PIUs as a competitive pressure would be maintained in the second 
project.  The PIUs would liason, coordinate and inform the line ministries as well as the World 
Bank on project implementation. The PIUs would be responsible for the updating and 
development of operational procedures.  The PIUs would implement the integration of all their 
functions and procedures into the government institutions including the employment services, 
based on the performance of these agencies during implementation.  To this end, this component 
would finance purchase of necessary equipment, operating costs (including staff salaries) and 
limited technical assistance (staff development program).         
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT .5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
12 
 Total 
12.5 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The project implementation unit of the FBiH  Ministry of Labor and Social Affaires (PIU 
SESER) and  the RS Development and Employment Foundation would be responsible for the 
project implementation, transparent financial management, monitoring and evaluation, 
counseling on project activities, supervision of executing agencies and consultants, information 
sharing and cooperation across Entities  and training of the staff of the line ministries (FBiH 
Ministry of Labor and Social Affaires and the RS Ministry of War Victims and Labor). PES and 
private service provides, will be responsible for the execution of individual activities through 
service contracts and project agreements:  
 
i. 
Agreements between PESs and PIUs:  PESs would be invited to submit their annual 
proposals for the implementation of active labor market interventions and job brokerage 
in their respective areas/regions of responsibility. The proposals would include 
employment services activities and for institutional strengthening and capacity building 
for employment services delivery.  The agreements would be signed between the PIUs 
and employment services offices in the 10 cantons of the Federation and 6 regions of the 
Republika Srpska for project implementation on the basis of their submitted annual 
proposals.  
ii. 
Contracts between  private service providers and PIUs, acting on behalf of employment 
services based on their annual proposals, for activities with general benefits, such as 
market assessments, beneficiary assessments or pre-discharge orientation,  will be 
awarded on the basis of consultant’s qualifications.  
 
Page  6
 
 
iii. 
Tripartite contracts between PIUs, respective PES and qualified private service providers 
for employment support and on-the-job/apprenticeship training. The PIUs and PESs 
through their employment officers and public advertising contact reliable prospective 
providers (owners of businesses) to identify job/apprenticeship openings in their firms.  
Potential employers and service providers are expected to contact PESs and submit 
proposals number of months of training; number of job-seekers to be trained; fee for 
training; monthly stipend for each job seeker and small investment for improvement of 
business). The PIUs will be  contractual parties during the first two years of the project 
implementation. The possibility of fully transferring responsibility for these activities to 
the PES level will be considered during the mid-term review of the project. 
 
iv. 
Tripartite contracts between PIUs, respective PES and private service providers for 
supporting  active job and income seekers start up or improve their self employment 
activities (including self-employment in agriculture). The PIUs will be  contractual 
parties during the first two years of the project implementation. The possibility of fully 
transferring responsibility for these activities to the PES level will be considered during 
the mid-term review of the project. 
 
v. 
Contracts between PIUs,  PESss  and self employment in agriculture beneficiaries which 
would stipulate that the agriculture inputs/assets provided to the individuals such as 
livestock, greenhouses, multi cultivators would become the beneficiaries’ property at the 
end of the first year of productive use of such assets.   
 
vi. 
Those providers who have been verified as reliable would be added to a roster and 
database of service providers and employers to be updated regularly. Job-seekers and 
income earning opportunity seekers interested in a particular service would be able to 
choose those among the service providers and employers who would meet their needs 
best. The employers and service providers will be paid on the basis of monitorable 
triggers for performance and completed outputs. 
 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project seeks to introduce reform and change in the employment services in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina by creating a means for the employment institutions to test new approaches for 
themselves and in the process to provide short and medium term employment for 10,000 
individuals and their families. The sustainability of the project therefore lies in its ability to 
introduce change and have the change accepted and institutionalized. A high ownership within 
the employment services and the Government for the design of the project is an indicator that the 
project may secure sustainable change and reform.  
 
 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Page  7
 
 
Lessons learned  include (i) introducing behavioral change in institutions requires a multi 
dimension carrot and stick approach and creating ways for institutions to experience first hand 
the implementation of new approaches and leveraging non financial outcomes with financial 
incentives (ii)   PELRP’s demand driven approach tailored services of  job brokerage and 
employment based on a skills and assets/needs assessments of job seekers with employers 
demand for skills (iii) counseling services is not a one time input and is required throughout the 
active job seeking period of each beneficiary (iv) building trust of job seekers towards employers 
in the  private sector takes time because job seekers still cling to the hope that times will revert to 
large state owned enterprises and assured jobs for all; (v) developing a willingness to reform and 
change operating procedures and behavior is process which takes place over time of 
demonstrated success with new approaches (vi) developing an orientation towards a business 
culture for individuals as well as institutions  is a process learned through demonstration of 
success; (vii) the development of capacity of private sector to provide timely and quality inputs 
including technical assistance to clients in agriculture and in business development was a key to 
successful support in self employment; (viii) an updated database system of job brokerage and 
labor market information is critical for success i.e. data base of unemployed clients and their 
skills profiles; job vacancies and skill requirements; and information on other income earning 
opportunities is vital; (xi) enthused and interested extension agents or counselors and were  
pivotal to the success of the project.. They are central to the multi directional informational flow 
between
 
unemployed clients, employers, other service providers and  market information data 
base maintainers and analyzers.  
 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
 
[ ] 
[ ]X 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[ ] 
[ ]X 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
 
[ ] 
[ X] 
 
 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
• 
Project Documents of the PELRP including Beneficiary Assessments 2003 and 
Mid term review (2002) . And a rapid assessment of PELRP beneficiaries in 
March 2004. 
                                                
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
 
 
• 
Functional Review of the Employment Institutes. 
• 
Recommendations Stakeholders Consultation workshop on Design of SESP 2003 
• 
Study on Targeting April 2004 
• 
Proposals from all Employment Services offices and bureaus for participation 
under the SESP 
• 
QER report for the SESP March 2004 
 
 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Maniza B. Naqvi 
Title: Senior Operations Off. 
Tel: (202) 458-1938 
Fax: (202) 522-477-3387 
Email: Mnaqvi@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
 
wb22259 
C:\2004.03.31.PID.doc 
March 31, 2004 3:10 PM
 
