                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001193



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-39270)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.2 MILLION
                      (US$ 12.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                      FOR A

                 SECOND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT PROJECT



                                 September 29, 2009




South East Europe Country Unit
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region




                                         1
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective July 1, 2009)

                            Currency Unit = KM
                            1.00 KM = US$ 0.66
                            US$ 1.00 = 1.51 KM

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALMPs   Active Labor Market Programs
BH      Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DEF     Development and Employment Fund
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EMSAC   Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit
FBH     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
IDB     Investment and Development Bank
ILO     Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit
LIP     Local Initiatives Project
MTDS    Medium Term Development Strategy
OECD    Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PES     Public Employment Services
PERLP   Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSAC    Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit
PTAC    Privatization Technical Assistance Credit
RS      Republika Srpska
SITAP   Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project
SESER   Socio Economic Support, Education and Redeployment Unit
SESP    Second Employment Support Project
SOSAC   Social Sector Adjustment Credit
SOTAC   Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit
QAE     Quality at Entry Assessment
QAG     Quality Assurance Group

                        Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                      Country Director: Jane Armitage
                       Sector Manager: Kathy A. Lindert
                  Project Team Leader: Maniza B. Naqvi
                     ICR Team Leader: Zorica Lesic




                                        2
                                    BOSNIA and HERZEGOVINA
                                   Second Employment Support Project



                                                    CONTENTS




 Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring (if any)
I. Disbursement Profile


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................... 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................ 28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 30
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 46
MAP ­ IBRD 33375R




                                                             3
A. Basic Information
                        Bosnia and                                         Employment Support 2
Country:                                         Project Name:
                        Herzegovina                                        Project
Project ID:             P084596                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39270
ICR Date:               09/30/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 BOSNIA AND
                                                                           HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                        XDR 8.2M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 8.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 8.2M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 The RS IDB-Development and Employment Fund
 PIU SESER - Ministry of Labor FBH
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/12/2004      Effectiveness:                              12/17/2004
Appraisal:            04/01/2004      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/15/2004      Mid-term Review:           10/30/2006       10/30/2006
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2008       03/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry        Moderately
                           No
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):                  Unsatisfactory
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     10                    10
Other social services                                                 85                    85
Sub-national government administration                                 5                     5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                   20                    20
Improving labor markets                                               40                    40
Social risk mitigation                                                20                    20
Social safety nets                                                    20                    20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Kathy A. Lindert                     Hermann A. von Gersdorff
Project Team Leader:       Maniza B. Naqvi                      Maniza B. Naqvi
ICR Team Leader:           Zorica Lesic
ICR Primary Author:        Zorica Lesic


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 Provision of employment services for an estimated 10,000 people who are either recently
retrenched and above 45 years of age and/or those who are actively seeking jobs for two
or more years in Republika Srpska (RS) and Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FBH); and



                                               ii
  Further reform agenda to bring behavioral change and business change in the
employment services by focusing the Public Employment Services (PES) on providing
effective job brokerage services; employment assistance programs including counseling
services; programs to assist the unemployed; analytical and information services
including disseminating labor market information. The Second Employment Support
Project (SESP) would use its financial resources to leverage significant non financial
outcomes of change in focus and approaches for the employment services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Job brokerage services and ALMP measures for 10,000 persons
                Less than 1000 persons
Value
                employed through
quantitative or                            10,000                            10,836
                ALMPs by the
Qualitative)
                Employment services
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
                Fully achieved and slightly exceeded its primary development objective by
Comments
                providing job counseling and employment services to 10,836 persons in the
(incl. %
                target group of 40 years of age and above, who were actively seeking jobs and
achievement)
                were socially vulnerable.
                PES expenditures, revenues, procedures, databases for registered unemployed;
Indicator 2 : labor market information; and staffing would indicate a shift to primarily
                focusing on effective employment services measures.
                                                                             Formal registration
                                                                             of farmers/workers
                                                                             as employed
                                                                             persons
                                           Accurate                          Rule book on
                No systematic criteria or
                                           registeration of                  registration of
                policy for selection of
                                           unemployed.                       unemployed and
                beneficiaries. Lack of
                                           Focus of EIs on                   employed by
Value           networked data bases
                                           job brokerage.                    employers
quantitative or amongst EIs nationwide.
                                           Networked                         Standardized
Qualitative)    Low allocation of
                                           databases.                        operations of the
                financing for ALMP and
                                           Demand driven                     PESs
                job brokerage
                                           services in ALMPs                 Private sector job
                                           and job brokerage                 brokers
                                                                             participation
                                                                             through sub-
                                                                             contracting for the
                                                                             provision of


                                               iii
                                                                             ALMP
Date achieved 12/31/2005               03/31/2009                            03/31/2009
              Partially achieved.
Comments
              PES expenditures, revenues, procedures, databases for registered unemployed
(incl. %
              and labor market information indicate a shift to primarily focusing on effective
achievement)
              employment services measures.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                Adoption and implementation of job brokerage and ALPMs by employment
Indicator 1 :
                services.
                                                                             10,836 active job
                                                                             seekers placed in
                PES beneficaries in                                          jobs and income
Value           ALPMs and credit                                             earning
(quantitative   programs in year 2004       10,000                           oportunities, 70%
or Qualitative) less than 4,000                                              of which remained
                individuals.                                                 in their jobs one
                                                                             year after being
                                                                             placed.
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments
                Fully achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)
                Development and delivery of transparent small grants programs based on annual
Indicator 2 :
                minimum wage index, instead of credit scheme.
                                                                             Reduced usage of
Value                                                                        non transparent
(quantitative   Not availabe               Not available                     loans by
or Qualitative)                                                              employment
                                                                             services.
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments        Substantionaly achieved.
(incl. %        PESs have adopted project approach to transparent ALPMs and job brokerage,
achievement) costs for job brokerage and ALPMs show decrease in costs annualy.
                Recognition of all legal income earning opportunities (such as farming and
Indicator 3 :
                agribusiness) as jobs.
                                                                             The Law on
                Workers in agricalture not
Value                                                                        Agriculture has has
                recognized as employed.
(quantitative                               Not available                    been drafted in the
                Farming not recognized
or Qualitative)                                                              FBHand has been
                as employment.
                                                                             adopted in the RS.
Date achieved 12/31/2005                   03/31/2009                        03/31/2009
Comments        Partially achieved.
(incl. %        There is an evident interest amongst people working in agriculture, and listed as


                                               iv
achievement)      unemployed in the employment service records, to be registered (more than
                  1,000 persons in the first two years of the project implementation).
                  PES expenditures reflect primary focus on employment services and not on other
Indicator 4 :
                  tasks.
Value             More than 60% of
(quantitative     expenditures on non-        Not available.                      Not available.
or Qualitative)   employment services.
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
                  Partially achieved.
Comments
                  Although there is no figure provided in the Bank or PIUs documents to evidence
(incl. %
                  the achievement of this indicator related to stated baseline - there is an evidence
achievement)
                  of achievement based on number of client served by PESs
                  Social Insurance Benefit payments such as Health Insurance Benefits/Pension
Indicator 5 :
                  Benefits and cash benefits transferred to an appropriate agencies.
                                                                                  Although the
                                                                                  project provided
                                                                                  evidence that unless
                                                                                  health insurance
                                                                                  benefits were
                                                                                  delinked from
Value
                                                                                  unemployment
(quantitative     Not available                Not available
                                                                                  benefits - the
or Qualitative)
                                                                                  numbers of persons
                                                                                  registered as
                                                                                  unemployed would
                                                                                  remain high; this
                                                                                  was not done due to
                                                                                  political reasons.
Date achieved     12/31/2005                  03/31/2009                          03/31/2009
Comments
                Not achieved.
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Updated Research and Information Data base on Labor Markets.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/30/2004              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/16/2004              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00



                                                  v
  3    03/02/2005         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    0.00
  4    06/03/2005         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    1.17
  5    11/03/2005         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    1.30
  6    03/09/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    1.47
  7    11/08/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    3.23
  8    05/03/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    5.60
  9    08/09/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory    7.01
 10    05/09/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   10.43
 11    12/24/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   12.61
 12    03/26/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   12.62


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector issues

Destruction and displacement caused by war as well as transition have led to the high
rates of unemployment in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH). In addition, the necessary
reforms of state owned enterprises, public sector and corporate restructuring, and
privatization led to retrenchment of employees and therefore additional short to medium
term unemployment. Pre-war industry in the region, as well as in BH, was organized
around heavy metal enterprises, mining, construction and other industries that primarily
fed into the defense industry of the former Yugoslavia. Employees held jobs for life and
worked five days a week. However, the mainstay or second job of the mostly rural
population was in agriculture. With the loss of jobs in the formal sector, most of the
population has returned to agriculture not as a primary source of income but as a safety
net. The agribusiness sector also provides viable income generation opportunities.

At the time of Project design, the formal labor force in BH which was listed as employed
in the state run enterprises was in the age group of 40 and above, while the younger
population was employed mainly in the unregistered firms in the informal sector, which
included agriculture. Retrenchment envisaged therefore affecting the older population
and their households, making them vulnerable given that they were less likely to find new
employment. The slow pace of job creation in the formal sector due to a lack of new
investments in the country continued to affect younger job seekers and provide them with
a disincentive to remain in the country. Remittances from family members working
abroad constituted a significant share of households' income.

The Medium Term Development Strategy (MTDS/PRSP), adopted by the Government of
BH in 2004, recognized that an increase in employment could be expected mainly in the
private sector and that employment would be best generated through measures for
encouraging entrepreneurship and reform across all sectors including in the provision of
employment and job brokerage services. The MTDS set its context for the labor market
in the implementation of vital reforms in the public sector between 2004 and 2007 which
would, in the short term, cause a reduction of jobs.

In support of this strategy the World Bank 2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS,
Report No: 29196-BA) focused its support on reforming the public sector, furthering
privatization, revitalizing enterprises, improving corporate governance, while at the same
time reforming social protection and labor market policies. This was to be achieved
through the adjustment and technical assistance operations of: the Second Social Sector
Adjustment Credit (SOSACII; Credit 3926 BOS); the Economic Management Structural
Adjustment Credit (EMSAC; Credit 3925 BOS); the Social Insurance Technical
Assistance Project (SITAP; Credit 3778 BOS); the Privatization Technical Assistance
Credit (PTAC; Credit 3531 BOS); as well as investment lending operations such as the
Second Employment Support Project (SESP).



                                            4
Major findings of the labor market study and the experience of earlier Bank supported
projects, such as the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment Project (PELRP) which
successfully provided cost effective job brokerage services to 8,000 ex-soldiers,
confirmed that the country's labor markets remained distorted due to continued and
accumulating institutional and administrative imbalances caused by the war and transition
as well as residual rigidities of the previous system. Key findings included:
    Data on registered unemployment vastly exaggerated true prevalence of
    unemployment. The actual unemployment rate was estimated more likely to be in
    the range of 16-20 percent. According to the 2001 labor force survey, out of the
    total registered unemployed in BH, only slightly less than a quarter qualified as
    unemployed under the standard definition of the Economic Management
    Structural Adjustment Credit and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
    Development (ILO-OECD). The rest were either employed (another quarter) or
    inactive (51 percent). The main reason for unemployment registration appeared
    to be access to free health services upon registration.
    Job creation and reallocation of jobs in the formal sector was slow, particularly in
    Republika Srpska (RS), and the formal sector workforce had become considerably
    older, while young workers were denied access to formal sector jobs. This
    contributed to a large informal sector in BH with most of informal employment,
    including for the young and women, taking place in small-scale
    agriculture/farming (47 percent), construction (17 percent) and manufacturing (9
    percent). The majority of informal workers were employed by private employers,
    28 percent were self-employed, and about one-fifth were contributing family
    members.
    Workers in agriculture were not considered as employed.
    Worker mobility was modest due to constraints in relocation within and between
    entities and restructuring of state enterprises and housing availability.
    Despite the overall context of a stagnant labor market, private firms and agri-
    business were much more dynamic in all aspects of job flows, including net
    employment growth.
    A rigid wage determination system stood in the way of job creation and worker
    mobility.
    Taxes and contributions accounted for 69 percent of labor costs in the Federation
    BH and 52 percent in the RS which were a disincentive for registering as
    employed.

   The number of persons registered as unemployed with the Public Employment
   Services (PES) in 2004 did not and still does not reflect the actual number of
   unemployed persons in BH. The PES main function is the usage of unemployment
   insurance contributions and the provision of health insurance benefits and other cash
   benefits for those registered as unemployed. This still provides a key incentive for
   persons to remain registered as unemployed.

                  Persons registered as unemployed with PESs (2004)

                                           5
  Regions            Population     Registered     Informal Estimate   Informal Estimate
                     (estimate)    Unemployed        of Active Job          of Most
                                                        Seekers           Vulnerable
  RS                 1,400,000        138,000           118,000             29,119
  Federation BH      3,015,420        296,686           160,442             70,000

Expenditures of PESs indicated that job brokerage services and Active Labor Market
Programs (ALMPs) were not the primary function of these public agencies. ALMPs
constituted over 50 percent of expenditures by the PES in the RS and less than 30 percent
of the PES expenditures in the Federation BH. A major portion of expenditures was on
the provision of health insurance to the registered unemployed. Graduates upon
completion of secondary or university education were eligible to register and receive
health insurance. In addition, the PES in the Federation BH allocated a major portion of
funds for credit programs. A functional review of the PES in the Federation BH
concluded that these credit programs were non-poor targeted, lacking in transparency,
and ad-hoc in client identification. Credit programs, health insurance and cash benefits
constituted the major portion of the PES operations while job brokerage and ALMPs
were negligible or non-existent. Income earning activities such as agricultural work or
agri-business/farming were not considered as a job or as employment. Farmers were
therefore registered as unemployed. This was due to the employment services orientation
which, to a large extent, remained geared towards a pre-transition economy of supplying
labor to state owned enterprises.

Rationale for Bank involvement

Starting in 2004, the BH was likely to experience, as a result of adjustment, privatization
and corporate restructuring, significant movements in its labor market which included
substantial job shedding in the corporate and government sectors (the latter including, but
not exclusively, defense). The Bank played an important role in labor market policy
formulation, based on its analytical and operational work on labor markets, including
ALMPs, and labor redeployment in BH and in South Eastern Europe. The Bank had
gained experience addressing such issues through its work on: (i) the Pilot Emergency
Labor Redeployment Project (PELRP) which constituted a significant portion of all
ALMP experiences in BH; (ii) the functional review of the PESs conducted under the
Social Sector Technical Assistance Credit (SOTAC) and the reform policy dialogue
furthered by the Second Social Adjustment Credit (SOSAC II); and (iii) the micro-
finance operations under the first and the second Local Initiatives Projects (LIP I and LIP
II).

The Bank's involvement, through the SESP, in furthering the reform agenda of
transforming the PES and of mitigating the affects of retrenchment was highly relevant
with respect to both timing and substance. Addressing labor markets and the poor
performance of institutions active in them was an important objective of the CAS and this
project was consistent with this objective.. As such, the Project sought to build on the
experience of the PELRP and to contribute to the formulation and implementation of
social risk mitigation policies, which the Government was under high pressure to
establish. The SESP envisaged furthering the reform and changing the employment

                                            6
services towards effective job brokerage and ALMPs. The likely wave of retrenchments
was planned as a direct or indirect result of policies supported by other Bank operations:
-   Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit (EMSAC) supporting reform
    of public administration to reduce its share in the economy;
-   Privatization Technical Assistance Credit (PTAC) to facilitate transparent
    privatization of selected state owned enterprises;
-   Business Environment Adjustment Credit (BAC) in the context of strengthening the
    business environment by facilitating business entry, operation and exit
-   Second Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSACII) supporting the establishment of
    better targeted and more efficient safety nets.
-   Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit (PSAC) facilitating enterprise
    restructuring and improved corporate governance.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The SESP development objectives, as defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
were:

(i) provision of employment services for an estimated 10,000 people who were either
recently retrenched and above 45 years of age and/or those who were actively seeking
jobs for two or more years; and

(ii) furthering reform agenda to bring behavioral and business changes in the employment
services by focusing the PES on providing: effective job brokerage services;
employment assistance programs including counseling services; programs to assist the
unemployed; analytical and information services including disseminating labor market
information.
The SESP was expected to use its financial resources to leverage significant non financial
outcomes of change in focus and approaches for the employment services.

SESP key indicators included the following outcome indicators:
    1. The successful delivery of ALMPs and job brokerage services to an estimated
       10,000 active job seekers and the most vulnerable groups of unemployed;
    2. PES expenditures, revenues, procedures, databases for registered unemployed;
       labor market information; and staffing would indicate a shift to primarily focusing
       on effective employment services measures.
As well as intermediate results per components:
1. Adoption and implementation of job brokerage and ALMPs by employment services.
2. Development and delivery of transparent small grants program based on annual
   minimum wage index, instead of credit scheme;
3. Recognition of all legal opportunities (such as farming and agribusiness) as jobs;


                                            7
   3. PES expenditures reflect primary focus on employment services and not on other
      tasks;
   4. Social Insurance Benefit payments such as Health Insurance Benefits/Pension
      Benefits and cash benefits transferred to appropriate agencies; and
   5. Updated Research and Information Data base on Labor Markets.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

There were no changes in the Project Development Objectives or key indicators during
the implementation of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The SESP's target group of beneficiaries included individuals who were: (i) registered as
unemployed with the PES; (ii) active job seekers for more than two years; (iii) over the
age of 45 (this threshold was lowered during the course of the project to 40 due to a
flexible approach which re-assessed annually the demand and vulnerability criteria); (iv)
had no other income earning family member; and (v) were unskilled. These criteria
largely eliminated the so-called "creaming off" effect when the most employable job
seekers may be selected into the programs. In particular, 34 percent of beneficiaries had
primary or lower education level; 31 percent graduated secondary school with three-year
course, and 30 percent with four-year course; 61 percent of beneficiaries were males and
39 percent were females.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Active Labor Market Programs and Job Brokerage Services (US$9.0 million
equivalent)

The objective of this component was to focus the PES on matching employers with job
vacancies to appropriately skilled active job seekers; and on providing, through private
sector service providers, income earning opportunities to active job seekers and to the
hardcore unemployed based on the experience of the PELRP.

Activities under this component included: counseling services; on the job training;
support for self employment in agriculture, agribusiness, small businesses; job fair and
public works; business advisory services and skills enhancement training.

Institution Building and Technical Assistance to the PES (US$1.5 million
equivalent)

This component aimed to upgrade and strengthen the PES capacity to provide and
outsource job brokerage services through the development of effective procedures, clear
guidelines and regulations, staff training and the piloting of analytical labor market

                                           8
information systems including introducing labor market research units in the Ministries
of Labor.

Project Management (US$1.5 million equivalent)

The objective of this component was to support project implementation and coordination
between all partners in the SESP. The Project was to be managed by the Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) and included supervision and monitoring of all components
under the Project as well as the knowledge transfer to and training of participating
agencies (PES).

1.6 Revised Components

The Project components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes during project implementation. The Development
Credit Agreement for the Project was signed on July 21, 2004, and the Project became
effective in December 2004.

The Project was scheduled to close on September 30, 2008. However, in response to a
Government request to extend the Closing Date for an additional six months, the closing
date of the Project was extended until March 31, 2009. The reason for the extension was
that project effectiveness had been delayed by six months, due to the lengthy procedures
of ratification of the Credit Agreement and Subsidiary Credit Agreements by the state
and entities parliaments.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Project was identified on the basis of a consultation workshop held in September
2003 with key partners from the employment services and was based on the experience
and lessons learned from two previous employment support projects, including the
PELRP, as well a technical assistance loan which covered in depth the functional review
of the PESs (SOTAC). However, these lessons were not adequately analyzed and project
design did not include an alternative approaches to providing employment services to
different groups. In addition, there was no detailed description of what the employment
services were doing and how the expected institutional change was going to be carried
out.
Project design suffered from a short preparation time. Initially, the Project was expected
to replicate successful approaches related to training and job placement that had been
developed under the PELRP. Following the suggestions of reviewers who participated in
the Project Concept Note review and the Quality at Entry Review, the team agreed to
expand the Project's objectives beyond the originally proposed scope. The final project


                                            9
design contained several new and ambitious institutional reform objectives and a
completely new target group and selection criteria, which were not articulated in detail in
the PAD.

Although, there was no evidence of active consultation with other donors, the Project
appeared to be in line with activities pursued by other donors.

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviewed the Project in 2005. This was a
two stage assessment. The first stage review was conducted in May 2005 and was rated
as moderately unsatisfactory, due to: technical aspects, appropriateness and realism of the
institutional capacity building measures, and arrangements for monitoring and impact
evaluation. Both the sector and the country management in the ECA Region differed
from QAG's assessment, considering the Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) for the
SESP to be satisfactory. In particular, the Region differed from QAG on their assessment
of the technical, financial and economic aspects and the implementation arrangements for
the Project.

The second stage review was conducted in July 2005. The panel reviewed the
shortcomings identified by the Stage 1 panel, the response from the task team and the
subsequent comments in the final assessment. After considering the Region's comments
and the additional information presented during the interview the panel found no basis for
changing the write-up or ratings of the previous panel.

2.2 Implementation

Although project effectiveness was delayed due to lengthy process of parliamentary
ratification of international agreements (including International Development Association
credits) which at the time included an adjustment credit (SOSAC II) and a technical
assistance credit (PTAC), this did not have a negative effect on the SESP implementation
and performance in terms of achieving its development objectives. Project
implementation was smooth with disbursements on target.

Both implementing agencies, the Socio Economic Support, Education and Redeployment
Unit (PIU SESER) in the FBH and the Development and Employment Fund (DEF) in the
RS, had sufficient capacity. Project teams in both entities were experienced and did not
have any turnover of staff; therefore the performance of the implementation teams
including financial management and procurement remained satisfactory throughout
project implementation. Project ownership and the close cooperation of PIUs staff and
line Ministries were key factors leading to a smooth implementation despite the changes
of Ministers.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Results Framework and Monitoring in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) are
assessed as moderately satisfactory. While the indicators for monitoring progress toward
PDOs are considered adequate baseline information and target values were missing.



                                            10
In terms of implementation, the ICR team noted a discrepancy between the second
outcome indicator listed in the PAD and the indicator monitored during implementation
and reflected in the Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs). Furthermore, the
PAD includes several intermediate indicators that were not included and/or monitored in
the ISRs. Fortunately, regular PIU reports and the Monitoring and Evaluation system for
the overall project activities included indicators from the original results framework, thus
providing the ICR team with the data required to evaluate Project outputs and outcomes1.

Despite the poor information included the ISRs, the overall M&E implementation and
utilization are assessed as moderately satisfactory given that the PIUs and Monitoring and
Evaluation systems were able to produce the data to monitor progress toward achieving
PDOs. As previously mentioned the system was based on the originally designed results
framework in the PAD and regularly monitored those indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The environmental category for this project was C. There were no major environmental
issues during the project implementation; furthermore, it is likely that the Project affected
the environment positively through the activities that included short term public works
such as garbage collection, particularly alongside the rivers.

As mentioned earlier, the Project was managed by the Socio Economic Support,
Education and Redeployment Unit (PIU SESER) in the Federation BH and the
Development and Employment Fund (DEF) in the RS. After October 2007, the DEF
became an integral part of the newly established RS Investment and Development Bank
(IDB). The financial management arrangements have been transferred to the accounting
department of the IDB and continued to be supervised by the previous financial
management specialist.
Both implementation units had appropriately experienced staff, capable to maintain up to
date accounting records and prepare financial management reports on time. The financial
manuals for the Project were regularly updated in order to reflect recommendations given
by the Bank team.


1
  Specific to the outcome indicator mentioned above, the second PAD indicator was: PES expenditures,
revenues, procedures, databases for registered unemployed; labor market information; and staffing would
indicate a shift to primarily focusing on effective employment services measures. The corresponding
Results Indicators for the Component 2 included: (i) Recognition of all legal income earning opportunities
(such as farming and agribusiness) as jobs; (ii) PES expenditures reflect primary focus on employment
services and not on other tasks; (iii) Social Insurance Benefit payments such as Health Insurance
Benefits/Pension Benefits and cash benefits transferred to an appropriate agencies; and (iv) Updated
Research and Information Data base on Labor Markets. However, the corresponding indicator in the ISR
is: Strengthening of institutional capacity of employment offices for job brokerage. The corresponding
Results Indicator monitored in the ISRs was (i) Employment Institutes capacity for job brokerage and
ALMPs.




                                                   11
The Project's financial statements were audited on an annual basis by independent
auditors and all audit reports were unqualified.
Procurement and financial management activities performed under the project were done
in accordance with agreed procurement methods and were considered of satisfactory
quality during implementation.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Project has played a significant role in moving policy direction on employment
services towards a focus on job brokerage and job counseling. The SESP supported
legislative changes in encouraging even more active involvement of private sector in the
provision of labor market services such as training and job brokerage as an integral part
of PES reform. In the RS the usage of private brokerage firms has been adopted, while in
the Federation BH the project supported drafting of legislation which is currently under
consideration by the Government.

Additionally, the Project supported an extensive training for PESs staff in both entities,
including training for counselors to apply techniques for active job seeking, general
computer literacy training for the employment offices' staff, and training on monitoring
and evaluation. The capacity for implementation built under the SESP has been
instrumental in the work underway on social safety nets and the rationalization of non
insurance social benefits.

Finally, The Social Safety Net and Employment Project currently under preparation will
include a component to further support job brokerage and ALMPs. As proposed, this
component would support provision of job brokerage services to 15,000 vulnerable
unemployed persons. The proposed Project would also facilitate further improvements of
efficiency, effectiveness, and targeting of job brokerage services by the PESs; while at
the same time promoting the role of private job brokerage agencies.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project objectives of direct delivery of services and institutional development were
and remain highly relevant and consistent with the country's development priorities, as
well as the PRSP objectives of improving livelihood opportunities for the citizens of BH,
and the 2004 CAS objectives, and (social sustainability, fostering private sector led
growth and strengthening institutions and governance), the current Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS FY08 - FY11, Report No. 41330-BA) approved in 2007 (improving the
quality of public spending and the delivery of public services for the vulnerable).
Addressing labor market deficiencies and the poor performance of institutions active in
them was an important objective at the time of project preparation, as stated in the CAS,
and the Project fitted in well with this theme and other efforts in the sector. Project
objectives responded to the problems of large scale unemployment resulting from
demobilization, displacement, and economic restructuring. They also responded to the

                                           12
longer term needs to rebuild and restructure the employment services infrastructure so as
to respond to the challenges of the developing economy and the EU Employment
Strategy, as well as rebuilding networks disrupted by the conflict.

The SESP has made a significant contribution in strengthening capacity of the PESs in
the country. Transparent and well targeted ALMPs became an integral part of the PESs
activities. The SESP took a flexible approach and focused its activities on the provision
of ALMPs (on the job training and employment; self employment; job counseling, public
works, skills enhancement) to the most vulnerable groups in the labor market.

The SESP also provided evidence and demonstrated to the Government the
administrative, legislative and institutional bottlenecks, contradictions and complexities
which made it next to impossible to reduce registered unemployment numbers without
introducing legislative and institutional changes. For example: unless health insurance
benefits were removed from the PES and delinked from unemployment benefits - the
numbers of persons registered as unemployed would remain high. Unfortunately, the
political climate was not in favor of eliminating these bottlenecks.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Project objectives were:

Objective I: Provision of employment services for an estimated 10,000 people who were
either recently retrenched and above 45 years of age and/or those who were actively
seeking jobs for two or more years.

The achievement level of this objective is satisfactory, as evidenced by fully achieved
first outcome indicator (Job brokerage services and ALPM measures for 10,000 persons),
as well as fully achieved intermediate indicator 1 (Adoption and implementation of job
brokerage and ALPMs by employment services) and substantially achieved intermediate
indicator 2 (Development and delivery of transparent small grants programs based on
annual minimum wage index, instead of credit scheme).

The Project slightly exceeded its primary development objective by providing job
counseling and employment services to 10,669 persons in the target group of 40 years of
age and above, who were actively seeking jobs and were socially vulnerable and low
skilled persons. Of these, 3,524 persons were in the RS and 7,145 persons in the
Federation BH. In the Federation BH, PIU SESER received financing from the entity
budget to provide SESP type employment services to 167 disabled persons. All these
brought the total number of beneficiaries under the project to 10,836. A summary of
project activities in provision of ALMPs is presented in the Table below:




                                           13
                       Federation BH        RS              BH                     BH
Activity               No. of          No. of          No. of          Costs per beneficiary (KM)
                       beneficiaries   beneficiaries   beneficiaries
On-the-job training        5,225          2,038           7,263                  2,407
Skills enhancement           95             8              103                   1,240
Self-employment            1,478          1,478           2,756                  2,934
Public works                181                            181                    586
Job counseling              166                            166                    600
Services to disabled        167
persons
Total                      7,312          3,524           10,836                 2,474

Objective II: Furthering reform agenda to bring behavioral and business changes in the
employment services by focusing the PES on providing: effective job brokerage
services; employment assistance programs including counseling services; programs to
assist the unemployed; analytical and information services including disseminating
labor market information.

The achievement level of this objective is moderately unsatisfactory.

This objective is closely related to the second outcome indicator in the PAD: PES
expenditures, revenues, procedures, databases for registered unemployed; labor market
information and staffing would indicate a shift to primarily focusing on effective
employment services measures.

This outcome indicator was partially achieved as evidenced by progress made against the
following indicators intermediate indicators:

Partially achieved indicator 3 - Recognition of all legal income earning opportunities
(such as farming and agribusiness) as jobs.
There was an evident interest amongst people working in agriculture, and listed as
unemployed in the employment service records, to be registered (more than 1,000
persons in the first two years of the project implementation), however the law on
Agriculture was only adopted in Republika Srpska, while in the federation of BH the Law
has been drafted but not yet adopted.

Partially achieved indicator 4 - PES expenditures reflect primary focus on employment
services and not on other tasks.
Although there is no concrete figure provided in the documents produced by the Bank
team or PIUs to evidence the achievement of this indicator, there is a clear evidence of
number of persons served by PES.

Not achieved indicator 5 - Social Insurance Benefit payments such as Health Insurance
Benefits/Pension Benefits and cash benefits transferred to appropriate agencies.
Although the project provided evidence that unless health insurance benefits were
delinked from unemployment benefits - the numbers of persons registered as unemployed
would remain high; this was not done due to political reasons.


                                            14
Not achieved indicator 6 - Updated Research and Information Data base on Labor
Markets. RS initiated development of employment services management information
system. Employer survey has been piloted for the first time to obtain information on labor
demand. However, the Public Employment Services in BH still need to develop a system
which will provide data on labor markets.

Given that the Project fully achieved its first PDO indicator, and partially achieved its
second PDO indicator, its overall achievement is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

The SESP's demonstration effect for cost effective job brokerage services and ALMPs is
yielding positive results. A comparison of costs between the SESP financed and other
services by the PES in the Federation BH shows that the average cost per
beneficiary/placement was KM 5,343 for general programs while for those employed
through the SESP was KM 2,810.




Within the contingent of job seekers served by the SESP, employment sustainability of
Project beneficiaries is also considered satisfactory. A beneficiary survey of 1,763
persons whose SESP brokered 12 month contracts had expired was conducted in 2007.
In the Federation BH, 77 percent remained in their jobs after their SESP contracts had
expired and remained off the list of the registered unemployed. In the RS, 89 percent of
people kept their jobs while 11 percent returned to the lists of unemployed.




                                             15
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory for the following reasons. First, at
the time of design the Project was highly relevant in terms of country priorities, including
the Government's overall strategy and objectives and the CAS. Additionally, the Project
has maintained high strategic and substantive relevance throughout implementation,
particularly during the recent and current crisis context. Second, the Project has
contributed to institutional capacity building. However, in terms of achieving its stated
objectives, Project performance was moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

As already stated, the Project successfully reached its target group: registered active job
seekers over the age of 45, later lowered to 40 years of age, and within this category
considered the most vulnerable and hard core unemployed because they had been
unemployed for a period of more than 6 months. In particular, 34 percent of beneficiaries
were with primary or lower education level; 31 percent graduated from secondary school
with a three-year course, and 30 percent with a four-year course; 61 percent of
beneficiaries were males and 39 percent were females.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The SESP has made a major contribution in strengthening of the employment services in
the country. Capacities of the PESs in both entities have been significantly strengthened
under the Project; transparent and well targeted ALMPs became an integral part of PES's
activities. In the Federation BH, for example, after much publicized non-transparent and
poorly targeted activities in the previous period, the PES has had unqualified audit reports
for 2006, 2007 and 2008. However, given the current labor market situation in BH, an
unfinished agenda of further reforms in employment and labor market policies still
remains.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

The Project has played a significant role in moving the policy agenda on employment
services towards a complete focus on job brokerage and job counseling.



                                              16
The Ministries of Labor agreed that reform of the employment services was a key issue
for improving the employment situation in the country. In partnership with the SESP, the
PES in the Federation BH was able to remove 130,000 persons off the lists of registered
unemployed due to their non eligibility and inactivity. However, these actions were
overturned in the Federation BH when incentives were provided by the Government to
re-register as unemployed demobilized soldiers. The new legislation provided new cash
benefits for demobilized soldiers and prescribes that a condition to obtain other non-cash
benefits requires confirmation by the PESs that a demobilized solider is registered as
unemployed.

Providing additional co-financing of 44 percent in the FBH and 28 percent in RS, the
Project was able to finance job coverage and employment services to a slightly larger
group than originally anticipated. It also supported the introduction of sustainable
employment approaches in ALMPs for unemployed persons who belong to vulnerable
categories with lower cost per capita grants, thus replacing the non transparent loans
which were earlier provided by the PES.

The Project also supported the implementation of the following activities which were not
part of the original project scope but had a direct impact in achieving PDOs:
 PESs have piloted new and cost effective labor market interventions, such as vacancy
    and job fairs.
 The implementation of new standards, procedures and processes in provision of
    employment services in compliance with ISO 9001:2000 in the Federation BH.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

There is strong evidence that priorities supported by the Project will remain government
priorities in the future. Indeed, some of the key project benefits have already been
mainstreamed to legislation adopted during project implementation, as outlined above.

However, the PESs in BH still need to develop a fully-fledged Performance Information
and Management System (PIMS) to evaluate and assess the impact of ALMPs. The PIMS
should provide real time information on key performance indicators, such as (i) program
enrollment by client characteristics, (ii) expenditures by program category, (iii) job
placement rates after program participation, (iv) cost per participant, and (v) cost per
placement, in regional disaggregation.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                           17
The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory.
On the positive side, the Bank's team had extensive experience in social protection and
related areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina via investment and adjustment lending. The
team was also broad based, incorporating needed expertise.

At the same time, the ICR team found some shortcomings in preparation. The ICR team
believes that the project development outcomes and indicators could have been better
developed to be more consistent and more directly linked to the activities supported by
the project. Additionally, project preparation should have included a solid evaluation of
the results of the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment project (PERLP); and a clearer
path of how the employment services should change. Finally, once the original project
proposal was changed as the result of recommendations made by the QER, the team
should have further developed the new component that was added to the project and
related baseline standards against which to monitor progress.

As mentioned before, the quality at entry was reviewed by the World Bank internal
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in 2005 and was rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Both the sector and country management in the ECA Region considered that the quality
at entry of the SESP was satisfactory. The Region's perspective on the quality at entry
was based on the fact that (i) there was a history of employment projects in BH which,
compared to other experience in BH and globally, had been both effective in placing
people and relatively cost-effective; (ii) under previous projects, employment services
were provided on a pilot basis for hundreds of the target group identified under the SESP,
and there was every reason to believe the flexible menu of support options would be
successful; (iii) the monitoring systems for beneficiaries was rigorous, and would enable
tracking over several years; and (iv) the Project had high ownership within the PES,
which was key to introducing and institutionalizing reform within the services. The
Region considered that the technical aspects of the Project were well prepared,
particularly in regards to labor markets and employment.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank's performance in ensuring quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory. During
Project supervision, the team assured a smooth implementation, including maintaining a
high level of policy dialogue in the social sector in general and its impact on the labor
market in particular.

Supervision inputs and processes were adequate. Supervision visits were undertaken at
least 4 times a year and ISRs prepared twice a year. Regular procurement and financial
management reviews were carried out. There was an adequate support from Bank
procurement and financial management specialists, which resulted in quick turnaround
time and responses to the requests. The continuity of team members, in particular of the
Team Leader, as well as permanent presence of the team member in the World Bank



                                           18
country office provided for continuity, helped to support ongoing supervision as well as
continuous policy dialog with main counterparts.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Although, the project outcomes and the Bank's performance at supervision were assessed
as satisfactory, the overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory due to
the shortcomings identified during project preparation.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Despite the initial delays caused by lengthy ratification process, the overall Government
performance is considered satisfactory. The Governments of the Federation BH and the
RS have demonstrated strong commitment to the objectives of the SESP and its
successful completion. This is reflected in co-financing arrangements of the Project,
where governments contributed over three times the original counter-part estimate. In the
Federation BH, the Government and the PESs have co-financed 44 percent of the relevant
project costs, and in the RS, 28 percent. The close cooperation of PIUs staff and line
Ministries, as well as ownership were the key factors of smooth implementation despite
the changes of Ministers.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agencies in the Federation BH and the RS were part of the ministries
of labor (and the ministry of finance in the RS). Both implementing agencies, the Socio
Economic Support, Education and Redeployment Unit (PIU SESER) in the FBH and the
Development and Employment Fund (DEF) in the RS, had sufficient capacity. The
Project teams in both entities were experienced and did not have any turnover of staff.
Both implementing agencies managed the Project well and provided effective
communication between the World Bank and relevant ministries, as well as the PESs.
Procurement and financial management activities performed under the project were done
in accordance with agreed procurement methods and were of satisfactory quality.

The capacity for implementation built under the SESP has been instrumental in the work
underway on social safety nets and the rationalization of non insurance social benefits. In
the Federation BH, the PIU SESER has been tasked by the Government to support
persons with disabilities who were able to work with employment creation opportunities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance


                                            19
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Reflecting on the overall project, the key lessons that have been learned and/or reinforced
during project implementation are as follows:

    Job creation and employment projects must be opportunistic and flexible in their
    selection of target groups and approach to job brokerage services in order to be able
    to take advantage of the changing realities of a country's labor market context.
    Assistance and advice in connecting employees to employers and matching skills to
    opportunities is often more effective than providing a grant.
    Partnerships between public sector employment services and private sector job
    brokerage firms can be cost effective.
    Monitoring and following up with employees and employers who have been matched
    contributes to sustainability of employment and job placements.
    Proactive and intensive supervision by the Bank's team is crucial for the project
    success.
    Through the provision of timely technical assistance during implementation, the
    Bank's team can constructively and substantively engages with the Government in
    policy reform dialogue. Investment lending operations provide an opportunity to
    understand sector policy issues and forge a close relationship with the Government if
    supervision during implementation is frequent and if project design reflects
    Government ownership.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
There are no issues raised by the implementing agencies.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                            20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 ACTIVE LABOR MARKET
PROGRAMS AND JOB                         10.50             16.99            162
BROKERAGE SERVICES
 INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING
AND TECHNICAL
                                          1.65              0.78            47
ASSISTANCE TO THE
EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                       1.85              2.26            122
             Total Project Costs         14.00             20.03            143


(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                    millions)    millions)
Borrower                                         2.00         7.19         360
International Development
                                                 12.00       12.84        107
Association (IDA)




                                          21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Active Labor Market Programs and Job Brokerage Services (actual cost
US$16.99 million equivalent)

The objective of this component was to focus the PES on matching employers with job
vacancies to appropriately skilled active job seekers; and on providing, through private
sector service providers, income earning opportunities to active job seekers and to the
hardcore unemployed based on the experience of the Pilot Emergency Labor Redeployment
Project (PELRP).

Activities under this component included: counseling services; on the job training;
support for self employment in agriculture, agribusiness, small businesses; job fair and
public works; business advisory services and skills enhancement training.

The Project provided job counseling and employment services to a total of 10,836 people
of which 10,669 persons were in the target group of 40 years of age and above, who were
actively seeking jobs and were socially vulnerable and low skilled persons, and 167 were
people with disabilities. Of those in the target group, 3,524 persons were in the RS and
7,145 persons in the Federation BH. In the Federation BH, PIU SESER received
financing from the entity budget to provide SESP type employment services to 167
disabled persons. A summary of project activities in provision of ALMPs is presented in
the Table below:

                      Federation BH        RS              BH                     BH
Activity              No. of          No. of          No. of          Costs per beneficiary (KM)
                      beneficiaries   beneficiaries   beneficiaries
On-the-job training       5,225          2,038            7,263                 2,407
Skills enhancement          95             8               103                  1,240
Self-employment           1,478          1,478            2,756                 2,934
Public works               181                             181                   586
Job counseling             166                             166                   600
Total                     7,145          3,524           10,669                 2,474

The most popular program supported by this component was the on-the-job training at
the existing vacancies, with incentives for employer for training, and payment of part of
the salary for a limited period of time. A list of candidates eligible to participate in
training was established based on the records from an existing database, by using search
criteria of age, length of period of waiting for employment and length of years of
insurance. Data on potential employers were collected by local employment bureaus. The
contracts were signed between the Employment Service, the SESP and employer,
followed by a contract between the employer and the employee. Since the contracts were
performance-based, in order to receive the final payment local employers proposing on
the job training were not only obliged to show evidence of demand for the training but
also to agree on a negotiated job placement rate of a minimum of 70 or 80 percent of
attendees for at least 6 to 12 months .



                                           22
                                  sample 4381 user in the FBH

                            Returned to
                       unemployment evidence
                               28%




                                                                  Did not returend to
                                                                unemployment evidence
                                                                         72%




The vocational training and skills enhancement activity was much less popular, mostly
due to lack of job offers after graduation, and only 103 participants showed interest and
passed various courses. The beneficiaries were provided with a range of trainings from
which to choose, including higher education, vocational training, professional training
specialization or advanced training; foreign languages, computers etc. Training was
implemented by the institutions accredited by relevant ministries, and resulted in
obtaining of certificate (diploma) recognized in BH. The beneficiaries were required to
submit the diploma or completion certificate to receive the final payment.

Self-employment activities were also very popular among the target group of job seekers.
Support in self-employment in agriculture and small business meant provision of
counseling services, training and professional assistance, purchase of initial resources for
establishment of agriculture or small business activity and monitoring. Selection of
unemployed persons for this component was a complex process. Every interested person
for small business was sent for a 3-5 day course in order to get familiar with the legal
aspects of the registration and opportunities. An important part of the program was the
development of a business plan wherein the potential beneficiary laid out an idea, and
provided information that such idea was a good basis to be successful. At the training,
they reviewed other aspects of money flows and learned how to prepare documents for
applying for the loan at commercial bank. Upon course completion, the costs of the
inputs (livestock, agricultural machines, polythene greenhouse, seeds, and the like) were
paid directly to the suppliers previously selected according to a pre-established
procurement procedure.

Public works and specialized job counseling programs (provided by private consultants)
did not gain popularity among the target group. Perhaps the financial incentives (payment
of KM 600 for 60 days of work) were not seen as sufficient or potential beneficiaries
might have had other sources of income.


Component 2: Institution Building and Technical Assistance to the PES (actual cost
US$0.78 million equivalent)

This component aimed to upgrade and strengthen the Public Employment Services'
(PES) capacity to provide and outsource job brokerage services through the development
of effective procedures, clear guidelines and regulations, staff training and the piloting of


                                                    23
analytical labor market information systems including introducing labor market research
units in the Ministries of Labor.

The main outputs of this component were:

    Creation of the Book of Rules on Keeping Basic Records in the Field of Employment
    in the Federation of BH
The purpose of creating a Book of Rules on Keeping Basic Records in the Field of
Employment was to standardize data and procedures in the Public Employment Offices
and Municipality Labor Bureaus. The Book of Rules on Keeping Basic Records in the
Field of Employment provides legal conditions to begin the review of unemployed
persons registered with the Employment Offices. At the same time, the rights and
responsibilities of registered unemployed people still tend to be unbalanced. This is
largely a political issue and goes beyond the authority of the SESP. For example, the only
obligation of the unemployed person, if active job-seeking programs such as counseling
or training are not available, according to the rulebook, is to regularly re-register at the
PES2.

    Implementation of Public Campaign with goal to prepare public for the forthcoming
    reform in field of employment
In 2006 a public campaign was launched with the goals of: (i) informing the public on
regulations defined by the new Law on Employment Mediation and Social Security of
Unemployed Persons; and (ii) promoting a new active labor approach. The public
campaign focused on providing clear and succinct informing on the following: (i) what
was new in the field of employment; (ii) who can be considered unemployed; (iii) when
does the status of unemployment terminate; and (iv) what is active search for a job. The
campaign contributed to changing the attitude of unemployed persons in terms of their
own responsibilities for job search. The campaign also informed of the work and
functions of the Employment Offices: active approach toward employers; active approach
to unemployed persons, who are searching for a job (counseling, informing, workshops,
etc.); and employment incentive programs.
Representatives of the Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and Federal
Employment Institute, all employees of the Cantonal Employment Offices and
Municipality Labor Bureaus in FBH played an active role in the public campaign
implementation.

 Standardization of operations of the Public Employment Services
Introducing of ISO 9001: 2000 - SESP initiated and supported the process of Quality
Management System Organization in 10 cantonal and the Federation of BH level PESs in


2
  Minimum once in 30 days if he/she receives unemployment benefit and pension and disability insurance (for example,
in the RS less than four percent of registered unemployed receive such benefits); once in 60 days if he/she receives
health care entitlement, and once in 90 days if he/she receives no such entitlements. A person can be deleted from
unemployment records if he/she rejects offered by PES adequate job without defining what is "an adequate job".




                                                        24
order to establish new standards, procedures and processes in compliance with ISO 9001
and 2000.

 Private sector involvement
SESP supported legislative changes in encouraging even more active involvement of the
private sector in the provision of labor market services such as training, job brokerage
and other services, as an integral part of PES reform. In the Republika Srpska the use of
private brokerage firms has already been adopted. The Project supported drafting of
legislation in the Federation BH and the proposed law is currently under consideration by
the Government.

 Reduction and termination of non transparent loans by employment services
The Project supported the introduction of sustainable employment approaches in ALMPs
for unemployed persons who belong to vulnerable categories through lower cost per
capita grants (replacing the non transparent loans which were earlier provided by the
PES).


    2005 / 2008                  SESP              Employment Services             index

Number of users                   6703                      11.061                  165

Financial resources            18.956.900                 59.098.212                312
(konvertibilna marka)

Average per user                  2828                       5343



   In the RS, the SESP supported investments into developing an employment services
   management information system based on job seeker and job vacancy databases.
   However, the PES in BH still needs to develop a fully-fledged Performance
   Information and Management System (PIMS) to evaluate and assess the impact of
   ALMPs. The PIMS can provide real time information on key performance indicators,
   such as (i) program enrollment by client characteristics, (ii) expenditures by program
   category, (iii) job placement rates after program participation, (iv) cost per participant,
   and (v) cost per placement, in regional disaggregation. Also employer surveys have
   been piloted for the first time to obtain information on labor demand.

Component 3: Project Management (actual cost US$2.26 million equivalent)

SESP has provided an extensive staff training for PES in both entities, including training
of counselors to apply techniques for active job seeking, general computer literacy
training for the employment offices' staff, and training on monitoring and evaluation.




                                            25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                    26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Jasmina Hadzic            Communications Asst.                ECCBA
Nikola Kerleta            Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS
Carmen F. Laurente        Senior Program Assistant            ECSHD
Imelda Mueller            Operations Analyst                  ECSHD
Maniza B. Naqvi           Sr. Social Protection Specialist    ECSHD
Goran Tinjic              Senior Operations Officer           ECCBA
Sanjay N. Vani            Lead Financial Management Spec      OPCFM
Supervision/ICR
Nicholay Chistyakov       Senior Finance Officer             LOAFC
Olav Rex Christensen      Senior Public Finance Specialist   HDNED
Lamija Hadzagic           Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS
Nikola Kerleta            Procurement Analyst                ECSPS
Sreypov Tep               Program Assistant                  ECSHD
Maniza B. Naqvi           Sr Social Protection Specialist    ECSHD
Senad Sacic               Team Assistant                     ECCBA
Goran Tinjic              Senior Operations Officer          ECCBA
                          Lead Financial Management
Sanjay N. Vani                                               OPCFM
                          Specialist


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                          25                       98.12
  FY05                                           n.a.                     0.14
  FY06                                           n.a.                     0.00
  FY07                                           n.a.                     0.00
  FY08                                           n.a.                     0.00
                          Total:                25                       98.26
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                        25                         75.08
  FY06                                        25                         76.30
  FY07                                        30                         91.20
  FY08                                        29                        106.81
  FY09                                        16                          0.00
                          Total:             125                        349.39



                                           27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                       28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                   29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                        Second Employment Support Project
                         Implementation Completion Report

                     Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
                        Republika Srpska Ministry of Labor


I      SESP OBJECTIVES

The basis for the Project design and setting up of the project development objectives was
the need to reduce poverty in the country caused by the war and the transition processes.
Furthermore, the poverty reduction strategy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, adopted by the
entities and the state Government at the beginning of 2004, identified increase of
employment as one of the key measures. Employment generation should be expected
primarily in the private sector through measures to stimulate entrepreneurship and
reforms in all sectors, including employment and job-brokerage services.

On the basis of:
1. Experiences acquired under the Pilot Emergency Redeployment Project (PERLP)
which, back in 2004, formed significant part of experiences in active labor market
programs in BiH; the SESP used the experiences gained under the PERLP and aimed at
transferring these experiences to public Employment Bureaus;
2. Results of labor market studies which confirmed that national labor markets still have
accumulated misbalances caused by the war and transition, residual rigidities of the
previous system, presence of discrimination at work, and poor labor force mobility. The
data on registered unemployment significantly exceeds the actual unemployment.
Opening and allocating jobs in the formal sector has been slow, labor force in the formal
sector has been aging and young people have had no access to jobs. This supports the
existence of a large informal sector, especially in the field of small agriculture, civil
engineering and small-scale production.
3. Findings of the Functional review of the public Employment Bureaus, showing that:
        (i) Expenditures of the public Employment Bureaus do not reflect focus on job-
        brokerage services and active labor market programs, which are the primary
        functions of these public institutions. Expenditures for these programs were less
        than 30 percent of the overall expenditures in most of the Employment Bureaus.
        (ii) Employment Bureaus in the FBiH allocated a large share of funds for credit
        programs that were not implemented in a transparent manner, with limited or non-
        existent care about solvency, liquidity and creditworthiness of applicants. These
        programs were not aimed at the poor. Instead, an ad hoc identification of clients
        was made.

Credit programs, health insurance and payments of unemployment benefits were the main
activities of the Employment Bureaus, while job-brokerage services and active labor
market programs were negligible or non-existent.



                                           30
Project design for SESP was adequate, and relevant project goals were set.

The first project activity was focused on the active labor market programs and job-
brokerage services.

The SESP goal was provision of employment services for estimated number of 10,000
vulnerable and hard-to-employ individuals in BiH, aged over 45 / 40;
The second project activity was focused on institutional strengthening and support for
public Employment Bureaus.

The overarching goal of the SESP was the reform program to deliver behavioral change
in the Employment Bureaus by focusing their activities to efficient job-brokerage
services. The SESP was supposed to use its financial resources to achieve significant
non-financial effects in terms of shift of focus and approach of the Employment Bureaus.
Persons older than 40 / 45 were identified as the hard-to-employ group of unemployed
persons. Significant portion of beneficiaries within this target group were people who
worked in the industries that no longer existed, whose skills were obsolete, and whose
mentality showed lack of trust in the private sector, denying the fact that the state cannot
provide lifetime jobs. As the immediate post-war situation was replaced by problems
arising from a transition to market economy and importance of active labor market policy
increased, reforms planned under the Project as well as the SESP target group were
carefully and correctly identified.

II     MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION

Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Public Employment Bureaus in the FBiH function as extremely complex system, with
weak vertical and horizontal links between institutions. Employment Bureaus and the
Federal Employment Institute do not have an effective information management system
for tracking the unemployed persons which could meet the requirements of a modern
labor market. Under competence of the Federal Employment Bureau, terms of reference
for establishing such system for municipal and cantonal bureaus were drafted in 2003.
However, five years later the system is still not in place.

Employment Bureaus and Federal Employment Institute did not have the appropriate
active labor market program, and monitoring process was inadequate. The focus was
primarily on the program of subsidies instead on training of unemployed persons in
active job-search and general training for qualification in accordance with demands of the
labor market.

It is obvious that the SESP Project generally affected reduction in actual amount of
subsidies for active labor market programs in the FBiH, and that, after four years of
implementation of the SESP Project, it was agreed that further correction of subsidies
should be made so that the existing amounts of support could be reduced to more
acceptable ­ significantly lower level which will be in line with international practice.



                                            31
However, the factor that significantly influenced implementation of the SESP Project was
the attitude of staff in the Employment Bureaus and huge skepticism shown regarding
active measures of the Project as well as the amounts of subsidies foreseen within these
measures. On the other hand, it was believed that much higher amounts foreseen in the
programs of the bureaus for the year 2005 were justified. The staff of the Employment
Bureaus accepted refusal of unemployed persons to participate in the Project as normal
and justified due to the "amounts offered". Similar situation was seen in their relationship
with employers, since they believed that an employer will never hire a person from the
SESP target group with such an incentive and that it was a waste of time to animate
employers to take part in the SESP Project since Bureaus' programs offered much better
incentive. It should be noted that the SESP supported active labor market programs were
implemented in parallel with programs of the Employment Bureaus in the FBiH.

Labor market in BiH is characterized by lack of flexibility and high rate of
unemployment. Number of long-term unemployed persons is extremely high.
Employment Bureaus in BiH have 655,902 unemployed persons recorded. However,
results of the Labor Force Survey (2007) showed that the actual number of unemployed
persons in BiH was about 303,329. In this regard, about 350,573 persons should not be
clients of the Employment Bureaus, meaning that they were not unemployed according to
the ILO definition of unemployment. Legislation in the FBIH defining organization of
social protection during temporary unemployment is inadequate, and as such had
significant effect on the project implementation.

Legal framework that is currently in force states that a worker who lost a job has the right
to material remuneration in duration of 24 months which is extremely long period of time,
and the amount of support provided is linked to the average salary instead of contribution
history. This stimulates employed persons with low income to register as unemployed, i.e.
this solution actually deactivates their status of active job seekers. The Law on job-
brokerage services does not contain precise definition of the status of unemployed person,
procedures of acquiring the `unemployed' status, and procedures of monitoring during
the period of temporary unemployment. Therefore, Employment Bureaus offer
inadequate registration process for unemployed persons. This is important since large
numbers of unemployed persons are not looking for jobs and are not available for work
(being either employed in the informal sector or inactive). Also, relationship with
employers is inadequate, i.e., relations and intensity of contact between employers and
Employment Bureaus in the FBiH should be much stronger. Establishing new registration
procedures and better monitoring of unemployment status of registered unemployed
persons would result in reduction of burden to the Employment Bureaus in the FBiH,
thus creating significant resources for active job seekers.

Public Employment Bureaus are responsible for paying health insurance. This is often the
main motivation for people to register as unemployed. Right to health insurance can only
be acquired upon registration in Employment Bureaus in the FBiH. Registration for the
purpose of health insurance and request for verification of rights to health insurance in
the Employment Bureau every two months represents additional burden to the staff
preventing them from providing standard services to their clients.



                                            32
In September 2006, during the implementation of the SESP, at its 169th session, the
Government of the FBiH defined and sent to urgent parliamentary procedure the draft
Law on Rights of Demobilised Veterans and their Family Members. This law provided
definitions of the term veteran, as a participant in defence of BiH, volunteer in organising
the resistance, as the category that has the right to: financial support during
unemployment, rights resulting from reduced working ability, etc. The basis for all forms
of financial support resulting from this law was the average monthly net salary in the
FBiH of the previous year, according to the report from the Federal Office of Statistics.
These forms of financial support included support for demobilised veterans during
unemployment which was 25 percent of the average salary in the FBiH for the previous
year. Depending on the time spent defending BiH, this form of support would be paid
during the period of one to three years. Amendments to this law prescribe that funds used
for such purposes should be provided by cantonal employment bureaus in the amount of
50 percent of their total income realised on the basis of contributions for unemployment
insurance, and the remaining amount should be provided by the FBiH level and cantons
(budget).

Processing and provision of services for such a large number of people (financial support
during unemployment, health insurance, war veterans' support) burdened resources of
Employment Bureaus that would otherwise be used for job-brokerage services and active
labor market programs. Furthermore, the current structure of social benefits in the FBiH
is an important generator of registered unemployment.

In order to ensure uninterrupted implementation of the project it was necessary to ensure
timely and regular involvement of co-financiers, in line with the project agreements, and
that was actually achieved. In the FBiH, the project was co-financed by the Government
of the FBiH and the Federal Employment Institute (FEI) , participating with 6.73 million
$, or 46% of the total project expenditures of 14.73 million $. Out of this amount,
financing from the FEI was 6.4 million $, and from the Government of FBiH ­ 0.33
million $.

It is important to point out that in the FBiH, co-financing for the project was
significantly larger than foreseen in the project document, (projected ratio was 80% IDA,
20% co-financiers), which shows borrower's commitment to support reform initiative of
the Project.

Application and implementation of the World Bank procedures definitely reduces the
project implementation risks. Financial reports according to Special Account (SA) and
reports on use of IDA credits (SOEs) and funds provided by the Government of FBiH
and Employment Bureaus, constituted the report on project implementation which was
reviewed by independent auditors, and shared with the World Bank and the Government
of FBiH.

Republika Srpska

Implementation period of the SESP project was characterized by a large number of
persons recorded as unemployed by the Employment Bureau of Republika Srpska (RS).

                                            33
Chronologically, number of persons recorded as unemployed was 142,462 persons in
2004, 142,331 in 2005, 144,106 in 2006, 134,207 in 2007, and 133,074 in 2008.

Target group, unemployed persons over 45 year of age was huge. The group included
36,610 persons in 2004 and finally reached 42,266 in 2008. The number of unemployed
increased in 2009 due to recession (in July 2009, number of unemployed persons over 45
year of age reached 45,748 and it is forecasted that the rise will continue by end of 2009,
even more rapidly). In addition to this, 19,000 persons aged 40-45 were also eligible to
receive services under the project (as decided during the mid-term review in 2006).

Participants in the project implementation, along with the project implementation team of
the World Bank and members of the local project implementation unit, were the
Government of the RS (Ministry of Labor and Veteran Affairs and the Ministry of
Finance) and the RS Employment Bureau, as one of the key factors in the project
implementation. The Ministry of Labor and Veteran Affairs participated in the project
implementation from the very beginning. In consultation with representatives of the
ministry, additional criteria for target group was defined (within the requested limits) and
amounts of subsidies for certain planned operations were harmonized. This process also
involved the management of the RS Employment Bureau, and they have been providing
their support since the beginning.
In order to ensure more operational implementation of the project, a team was formed to
deal with all resulting problems and other issues (representative of the Ministry of Labor,
the RS Employment Bureau and the Project Implementation Unit).
The RS Employment Bureau is organized through six regional branch offices, with the
main office located in Pale. There was one person in each branch office responsible for
implementation of the project.

Operation of the RS Employment Bureau is quite burdened by a large number of people
registered as unemployed. Activities of employees of the Employment Bureau mainly
deal with keeping records, not so much with job brokerage. Significant amount of time is
spent on administration of health insurance and cash benefits for unemployed persons.

In order to take some pressure off the bureaus, regulations dealing with records were
changed. Reporting once a month was modified into once in two months, and later on,
double-entry records keeping was introduced. The first group included active job seekers
who must report to the bureau once in 60 days. The second group included people who
were not actively looking for a job. These people have the obligation to report once in six
months. This group is made of people who are listed as unemployed mainly for health
insurance and other rights resulting from the status of an unemployed person. After
detecting the misuse of the double-entry records, a change in these regulations was
initiated so people from both groups would report once in 60 days. Misuse was mainly
related to those who are not actively looking for a job, and their employment in informal
sector or abroad.

The RS Employment Bureau implements active labor market programs financed by the
Government. These programs are financed by various ministries and amounts are
determined separately for each program. It was detected that for certain categories of

                                            34
unemployed persons (interns with university degree) much higher amounts were
allocated than those determined by SESP. However, it was shown that such modest funds
can be used to successfully employ (average amount for employment on SESP was 1,335
KM, interns were employed for 6,222 KM). Larger sums were also determined for
veterans, returnees and Roma people (2.000 KM). Having in mind age and qualifications
of these people, results achieved with the SESP funds are quite satisfactory. Also, it
should be considered as an option to have one centre (for example, Ministry of Labor and
Veteran Protection) determining amounts for certain categories of unemployed persons in
order to harmonize award criteria and amounts.

III     OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT 1

Evaluation of the first Project objective implementation is ­ "very good"

                                      FBiH            RS              RS            BIH            BIH
                                      Number        of Number       of Average in   Number       of Average in
Active labour market programs
                                      beneficiaries    beneficiaries KM             beneficiaries KM
On-the-job-training             and
                                      5,225           2,202           1,335         7,427          2,407
employment
Self-employment                       1,478           1,337           3,090         2,815          2,934
Vocational training                   95              8               825           103            1,240
Public works                          181             -                             181            586
Counselling services                  166             -                             166            600
                                      7,145           3,547           1,997         10,692         2,474
Program of the Ministry of Labour
and Social Policy FBiH            169                                               10,861
Disabled persons

Realization index for the first project goal of the SESP is 109.

In reaching the desired employment rate for persons aged 45 / 40, the project
demonstrated completely new approach to active labor market programs, that is, tested
possibilities to employ persons that are very difficult to employ using funds that are much
smaller than actual amounts used as incentives in other programs for employment in BiH.

Number of beneficiaries of the SESP in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in 10 cantons in the
FBiH, and 6 regions in the RS:
Canton / Region                       Number of beneficiaries            % share in total number

Una-Sana                              872                                8%

Posavina Canton                       200                                2%

Tuzla Canton                          1451                               14%

Zenica-Doboj Canton                   1274                               12%


                                                      35
Bosnian-Podrinje Canton      58                            1%

Central Bosnia Canton        853                           8%

Herzegovina-Neretva Canton   591                           6%

West Herzegovina Canton      145                           1%

Sarajevo Canton              1398                          13%

Canton 10                    137                           1%

Banja Luka region            1066                          10%

Istocno Sarajevo region      563                           5%

Doboj region                 546                           5%

Prijedor region              323                           3%

Trebinje region              424                           4%

Bijeljina region             625                           6%


7,427 beneficiaries or 69% of total number of beneficiaries were trained and employed.

The Project did not create jobs but it was allocating funds to employers who would
primarily employ persons from the SESP target group on the jobs which were already
vacant. Average funds spent for professional training and employment were 2,407 KM.
70% of this amount was for covering the costs of professional training and employment,
and 30% represented stimulation for the employer for priority employment of the persons
from the target group. Activities of the beneficiaries were various: sales, catering,
production of toys, wood processing, textile industry, civil engineering, production of
furniture, etc.

Number of self-employed persons in agriculture and small entrepreneurship is 2,815 or
26% of the total number of beneficiaries; in the FBiH, the project supported unemployed
persons who had basic requirements for agriculture or small business to register their
independent business of choice (cattle breeding, poultry breeding, beekeeping,
greenhouse farming, small crafts, sales, catering, etc.). Amounts allocated for self-
employment in the RS were 3,090 KM on average. Having in mind that these funds were
primarily planned for persons already active in these fields (working in informal sector)
and that they were used for legalization of their work, the amounts were not small.

Total number of beneficiaries for employment in small businesses was 825 persons, and
funds available were 2,325,631 KM, or 2,819 KM per each unemployed person.
512 persons were employed (registered business activity) in agriculture, and the allocated
sum was 1,806,290 KM, or 3,528 KM per beneficiary. Difference between amounts


                                           36
allocated for agriculture and entrepreneurship is a result of prioritization of
underdeveloped and highly underdeveloped municipalities with a purpose of stimulating
start-up businesses. This mainly relates to Herzegovina region since the agriculture there
dominates over other business activities.

Average amount spent per beneficiary, in whole BiH, was 2,934 KM.

Additional training (re-qualification or additional qualification) was provided to 95
beneficiaries (1%). Training should support competitiveness of unemployed persons in
the labor market and faster employment on jobs offered on that market in BiH and abroad.
Within these contracts, interests were very dispersed, i.e.: continuation of already
commenced elementary and high-school education, foreign language courses and
computer courses, driving courses for B, C, D, E categories, training for welders,
continuation of university education, specialist trainings, etc.

Average amount spent per beneficiary was 1,240 KM.

In the FBiH public works were organized for 181 beneficiaries, which is 2% of the total
number of beneficiaries. Public works were organized in form of cleaning and
maintenance of public zones, rivers, monuments of cultural or historical value.

In the FBiH there were also counseling services for unemployed persons and the
Program for employment of disabled persons. Based on the counseling services of the
SESP "training in active job-search", 166 beneficiaries from the target group were
employed. Using the SESP methodology, FBiH budget funds allocated for the year 2008
were used to employ or ensure self-employment of 167 disabled persons.

Qualification structure of Project beneficiaries was as follows: 33% non-qualified
workers, 1% semi-qualified workers, 31 % qualified workers...that is 65 % beneficiaries
with 3 grades of high school or less.

In the FBiH, on a very representative sample of 4,381 beneficiaries (sample included
100% of beneficiaries with expired contracts), the research showed that 72%
beneficiaries did not return to the list of unemployed persons. In the RS, within a sample
of 3,425 beneficiaries, 78% remained employed even after expiry of their contracts.
These indicators were very positive. High percentage of project beneficiaries who kept
jobs after the contract for service delivery expired proved that an individual approach in
providing job-brokerage services taking into consideration capability of target
beneficiaries was the right choice.

IV     OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT 2

Evaluation of the first Project objective implementation is ­ "satisfactory"

Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Adoption of the Rulebook for Keeping Basic Records in the Field of Employment:


                                            37
At the proposal of the FBiH Government, the Parliament FBiH passed the Law on
Amendments to the Law on Job-brokerage services and Social Security of Unemployed
Persons published in the Official Gazette FBIH No.: 22/05 of 6 April 2005, whereby all
necessary preconditions were created for the commencement of the application of this
Law. The most important question that affected the Project implementation in 2005 and
2006 were expressed ambiguities in relation to the commencement of the application of
the Law on Amendments to the Law on Job-brokerage services and Social Security of
Unemployed Persons. The need arose to draft by-laws for specific provision within the
law. At its session held on 28th of September 2005, the SESP Coordination Committee
adopted the harmonized SESP Guidelines for 2006 which among other envisaged
adoption of the Rulebook for Keeping Basic Records in the Field of Employment.
Implementation of this task within the SESP Project resulted in the development of the
Rulebook for Keeping Basic Records in the Field of Employment which became effective
on the date of publishing in the Official Gazette FBiH No. 24/06. Adoption of the
Rulebook was aimed at standardization of information and procedures in Public
Employment Bureaus and Municipal Employment Bureaus.

Implementation of the Public Awareness Campaign in order to prepare the public for
the forthcoming reform in the field of employment:
On the basis of the SESP Guidelines for 2006, the Project included design and
implementation of the Public Awareness Campaign which was conducted with an aim to
inform the public about the provisions of the Law on Amendments of the Law on Job-
brokerage services and Social Security of Unemployed Persons, as well as to promote
new approaches in the employment. In a clear and simple way, the public campaign
presented the following: What is new in the field of employment? Who is an unemployed
person? When does the unemployment status cease? What does active job searching
mean? The campaign should have contributed to the change of awareness of unemployed
persons about the fact that they are primarily responsible to look for a job; etc.

Development of the operating manual and procedures for application of the Rulebook
and implementation of the program of re-registration of unemployed persons in FBiH:
The SESP Project is the initiator of the Program of the Government of the FBiH ,,Re-
registration of unemployed persons", within which 79,524 persons were erased from the
records of unemployed persons in the period 1 January ­ 31 August 2008. By the
Decision of the Government of the FBiH, the approval was given for the program of re-
registration of unemployed persons in the FBiH, V. No. 85/08 of 23 January 2008
(,,Official Gazette FBiH", No. 08/08 of 20 February 2008). For the purpose of the
implementation of the program of re-registration of unemployed persons in the FBiH, as
well as the need for additional clarifications regarding the consistent application of the
Rulebook on records in the field of employment (,,Official Gazette FBiH", No. 24/06 of
17 May 2006), the selected consultant developed an operating manual for application of
the Law on Job-brokerage services and Social Security of Unemployed Persons and the
Rulebook on records in the field of employment, as well as the procedures for monitoring
the status of registered unemployed persons.
According to the last submitted report from January 2009, the total number of
unemployed persons erased from the records of unemployed persons, on all bases, in



                                           38
2008 was 127,149 persons. Likewise, 98,222 persons were registered as unemployed in
the same period.
In the FBiH in 2008 a positive trend was recorded in the labor market, i.e. decrease in the
number of the unemployed and increase in the number of the employed persons, while in
November and December an increase was noticed in the number of registered
unemployed persons, which was related to the application of the Law on Income Tax,
since the certificate on the status of unemployed person was necessary proof for tax
exemption.
Similarly, in the context of the Program implementation, cooperation, data and
information exchange was intensified and improved with relevant institutions (Tax
Administration, FBiH PIO/MIO Fund, universities, municipal and cantonal
administration bodies and courts, social work centers and relevant financial departments
of the municipalities, BiH Agency for Labor and Employment) which represented the
basis for further overcoming of the systemic incompliance and inconformity of actions of
the institutions with influence to realization of unemployment status, and this will in the
next period become a regular activity, which will contribute to the establishment of
reliable indicators in the labor market.

Drafting of the proposal of the Decree on Private Agencies for Mediation in
Employment:
Since the Law on Job-brokerage services and Social Security of Unemployed Persons
("Official Gazette of the FBiH, No. 55/00, 41/01 and 22/05) envisaged that, in addition to
the employment bureaus, job-brokerage services may also be exercised by other legal
persons, or private agencies, the purpose of the implementation of this activity was to
develop the regulations that would regulate in details the methods and conditions for
establishment of private job-brokerage agencies , a system for operation of private
agencies in the labor market and their relationship with public employment bureaus.
After a series of expert discussions with representatives of the FBiH Ministry of Labor
and Social Policy, SESER PIU, FBiH Employment Bureau, cantonal employment
bureaus, private organizations, associations of the unemployed, associations of employers
and unions, a proposal of the Decree on Private Agencies for Job-brokerage services was
agreed upon, and adopted on 9th of April 2009 at 97th session of the Government FBiH.

Introduction of the quality management system in the Federal employment bureau and
cantonal employment bureaus according to the international standard ISO 9001:2000:
For the purpose of preparing the employment bureaus for introduction of quality
management system in accordance with the international standard ISO 9001:2000, three
consulting companies were engaged, which in the period of 18 months provided advisory
services and helped the bureaus establish the quality management system (establishment
of the situation, defining goals, developing a study on introduction of the quality system,
determining the action plan for implementation, drafting of the quality rules of
procedures, procedures and documents of the quality system, implementation of the rules
of procedures and procedures in practice, checking of the functionality of the quality
system-internal audit, corrective actions after checking of the system functionality,
preparations for certification).




                                            39
Certification control and issuing of the certificate ISO 9001:2000 to the Federal
employment bureau and cantonal bureaus:
The selected certification company performed the pre-certification and certification
control (audit), which included the review of the quality system documentation, control
of compliance with the requirements of the standard and checking the level of
implementation of the system in practice. After it was established that all necessary
requirements were met and that the system was documented, introduced and being
applied, on 19 February 2009 the certificate ISO 9001:2000 was officially handed in to
the Federal employment bureau and all cantonal employment bureaus in the FBiH.
The issued certificate is valid for three years after the date of issuance, and during the
period of validity of the certificate it is important to perform the optimization of the
system due to which two supervisory audits are necessary.
Since a proper quality management system includes the process with constant measuring,
system controls, corrective and preventive actions, and continuous improvements, it is
necessary that the employment bureaus in the FBiH, after being issued the certificates,
continue with building and continuous improvements in order to preserve it.
The introduction of the standard ISO 9001; 2000; - Organization of the quality
management system includes application of defined procedures, standardization and
application of documents on quality, a systemic and organized approach, team work and
mutual coordination, client orientation, processes and outcomes monitoring, constant
surveys on client satisfaction in order to improve services, improvement of working
conditions and infrastructure, harmonized quality and speed of solving client requests,
availability of timely information, transparency, arrangement of a main counter room,
continued training of employees, monitoring and evaluation.

Pilot Project ,, Active Job seeking" and ,,Research of open marketplaces":
Within the SESP project, a Pilot Project was prepared and implemented ­ active job
seeking, which aimed at testing new active labor market programs as well as the new
approach towards unemployed persons. Research of markets and marketplaces was also
implemented, on the pilot basis in Canton Sarajevo and Tuzla, including analysis related
to the persons working at open marketplaces, who were at the same time registered as
unemployed persons.

Implementation of employment bureau personnel trainings at all levels as a permanent
activity within the SESP:
Constant building-up on the successful approaches tested within the PERLP through
transfer of its implementation experiences to the employment bureaus;
SESP enhanced the capacities of the employees of municipal employment bureaus to
provide a range of job-brokerage services including organizing meetings with
unemployed persons and meetings with employers as a regular practice of the municipal
bureaus. With support from the staff of the implementation unit, 56 meetings were held in
41 municipal bureaus in the FBiH, and discussions were held with about 350 employers
and about 350 unemployed persons, which rendered possible the employment of
unemployed persons that had difficulties to find jobs through active labor market
programs. It is important to note that the SESP supported active labor market program
was entirely implemented at the municipal and not only at the cantonal level, which was
the practice for programs supported by the bureaus.

                                           40
The training of employees of the employment bureaus at all levels was aimed at
enhancing their capacity to effectively apply the law and the rulebook. The training was
conducted in September 2006. This training contributed to a quality work engagement in
the process of updating of the records in terms of Articles 3, 3a and 3b of the Law.
The European Computer Driving License (ECDL) program of training of employees of
the employment bureaus in the FBiH was also supported under the project.
In 2006, within the SESP, a testing of the employees of employment bureaus in FBiH
was conducted to obtain the information on the current level of general computer literacy
among the personnel of the bureaus, as well as in order to obtain the information on the
needs for additional training in different areas. The testing included 250 employees in all
ten cantons in the FBiH and results of the testing showed that the current level of the
computer literacy was not satisfactory. The implementation of the ECDL program of
training for the employees of employment bureaus in the FBiH within was planned and
commenced based on the findings of the testing conducted in 2007.
Training of the employees of the bureaus in the process of monitoring and evaluation;
The training of the employees of the bureaus in the process of monitoring and evaluation
aimed at establishing a regular monitoring and evaluation practice in the further work of
the bureaus.
The first workshop ,,monitoring and evaluation" was held from 17 - 19 December 2007.
Participants of the workshop showed a notable interest in the subject area, and acquired
the basic knowledge on categories of monitoring and evaluation. They participated very
interactively in all exercises and at the workshop they prepared four ,,Employment
Subvention Program Evaluation Plans", which were chosen as case studies. After the
completion of the workshop, all participants assumed the obligation to implement in their
respective cantonal employment bureaus one of four ,,Evaluation Plans" prepared at the
workshop, and they took the obligation to evaluate the Employment Program in practice.
The second workshop primarily focused on certified employees of the bureaus as leaders
of the activities. The second workshop included presentation, analysis and assessment of
the evaluations of the employment programs prepared by the participants ­ employees of
the bureaus. The subject of assessment was not the successfulness of the subject program,
but the application of the theoretical methodology to the specific program by the leaders
of the evaluation.

In the RS, the SESP Project initiated, indirectly, the procedures based on which the
instructions for keeping of records of unemployed persons (time of reporting) were
changed in order to disburden the clerks who work with unemployed persons and to
direct their work on job-brokerage. For that purpose, the term "active job search" was
introduced as well as the term "persons not actively searching job" in order to place
emphasis active job search. Systematization of jobs in the bureau gave a greater
significance to this function. For now, it has not been developed enough and should be
further developed in the coming period.
In order to monitor results of the Project, the instructions were defined to monitor the
implementation. Every bureau regularly submitted the required information to the central
bureau. The established procedures made a good basis for the bureau to monitor the
implementation of their own programs as well.




                                            41
In order to improve the records, the development of the information system of the bureau
was agreed upon. To date system was developed on DOS basis. The number of data in
the database, although growing, did not guarantee that the system will be able to meet the
requirements posed to it. A new system was developed on SQL basis. The delivery of the
system was performed only partially. The module of records was delivered and is
currently being tested in the bureau.

V      BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank performance during the Project preparation and during the Project supervision is
rated as highly satisfactory. The Project was regularly supervised by the Bank staff
located at the headquarters and in the Country Office in Sarajevo. Bank staff was
constantly contacting the PIUs and provided close support for many different aspects of
the project implementation, including financial issues and procurement. Communication
was strong and open. Overall Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

FBIH:
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. PIU performance is rated as satisfactory.
FBiH PIU management was focused on Project implementation and establishing
coordination between all partners in the Project. PIU regularly reported to different
institutions on both, the Federal and the state level.

RSDEF:
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. PIU performance is rated as satisfactory.
PIU management was focused on Project implementation and establishing coordination
between all partners in Projects. PIU has regularly reported to different institutions on
both the entity and the state level.

VI     LESSONS LEARNED

Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Required reform activities in the following areas and issues:

(1) Development of regulations for disburdening employment bureaus from the burden of
the administration of health insurance, as an important generator of the informal sector;
(2) Support to the development of an integrated MIS system and an interactive portal of
employment bureaus;
(3) Inclusion of private employment agencies in provision of job-brokerage services;
(4) further correction in subsidizing of active measures in the coming period so that the
existing amounts of support are further reduced to a more acceptable level ­ significantly
lower level, and in accordance with the international practices;
(5) Change of the active labor market program focus towards the training programs for
unemployed persons for active job search and general training for work qualification
according to the demands of the labor market, instead of the subvention programs; (6)
Establishment of an information system for monitoring and evaluation of active labor
market programs; (7) Amendment of the Law on Job-brokerage services: shorten the


                                            42
terms of right to cash compensation and relate the amount of them to the amount of
contribution payments instead of the average salary, as well as arrangement of social
support during temporary unemployment (in terms of more precise defining of the status
of an unemployed person, procedures to acquire the status of unemployed, as well as the
procedures to follow during the temporary unemployment).

Republika Srpska

Required activities in the following areas and issues:
-   Disburdening employment bureau from administration of health insurance of
    unemployed persons and payment of compensation in case of unemployment;
-   Improvement of mediation function of employment bureaus;
-   Completion of the information system development, including an improvement of
    operations;
-   Introduction of private job-brokerage agencies;
-   Introducing legal framework for pre-qualification and additional qualification of the
    older persons, equipping the centers for pre-qualification and additional qualification.




                                            43
44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Country Assistance Strategy ­ Report No. 29196-BA
   Project Appraisal Document ­ Report No. 28835-BH
   Development Credit Agreement (3927 BOS)
   Seventh Quality at Entry Assessment Report
   Peer Review Comments
   Implementation Status Reports
   Aide Memoires following World bank missions
   SESP Mid-Term Report - Federation of BH Ministry of Labor
   SESP Mid-Term Report ­ Ministry of Labor and protection of veterans and disabled,
   Republika Srpska
   Project Concept Note for the proposed Social Safety Nets & Employment Support
   Project




                                         46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33375R


                                                     B O S N I A A N D H E R Z E GO V I N A
                                                         SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS

                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                   RAILROADS

                                                         MAIN RIVERS                                                                                                        DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES

                                                                                                                                                                            MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                        To Zagreb
                    16°E                                                  17°E           To Bjelovar                                          18°E                                                         19°E
                                                                                                                                                                               To Osijek

                                                                                                       CROATIA
  To                                                       Un a
Karlovac                                                                     
                                                              Bosanska Gradiska                                                 Sa             Bosanski Brod
                                            Bosanska Novi                  
                                                                (Srp. Gradiska)                                                      va
                                                                                                                                                 (Srp.Brod)                                                                                 To Belgrade
                                            (Novi Grad)


                                                                                                           as
 45°N                                                   Prijedor                                                                                                                                                                                                  45°N

                                                                                                        Vbr
                  Cazin                                                                                                       Derventa
                                                                                                                              Derventa
                                                                                                                              Derventa
                                                                                                                                                             sna                                                                                 Sava




                                                                                                                                                        Bo
                                Bosanska                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                            Brcko
                  Bihac´         Krupa
                                                                                 Banja




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
                                           Sanski Most                            Luka                                                                                                                            Bijeljina




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Drin
                                                                                                                                                              Gracanica
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Belgrade
      To                                                     S
   Sveti Rok           U
                                                             an
                       na




                                                               a




                                      Bosanski                                                               Varos
                                                                                                       Kotor Varos
                                      Petrovac
                                                                                                                                   ´
                                                                                                                              Teslic
                                                                                                                              Teslic
                                                                                                                                                                                        Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                        Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                  Kljuc
                                                                                                                                                       Maglaj
                                                                             REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
 CROATIA
                                                                                                                     ^
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Spreca
  To Medak                                 Drvar
                                            rvar
                                           Drvar                                                             ´ Mts.
                                                                                                        Vlasic Mts .                                          Kri
                                                                                                                                                                    va
                                                                                                                                                                       ja                                                                         To Valjevo
                                                                                              Jajce
                                                                                                                      Travnik
                                                                                                                      Travnik
                                                                                                                                     Zenica
                                      D




 To Obrovac                                                                                                                                                                         Kladanj
                                                                                                                                                                                              Vlasenica
                                                                                                                                                                            Vares
                                                                                                                                                                            Vares
                                          i
                                          i
                                          i




                                                                                              Vr




                                                                                                  s                                            Bosna
                                                                                                ba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Srebrenica
                                             n




                                                                                                          Bugojno                                            Visoko
                                                                                                                                                             Visoko                                  REPUBLIKA
                                                   a




 44°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D ri                      44°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            na
                                                                                                FEDERATION OF                                                                                         SRPSKA
                                                     r
                                                     r
                                                     r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Kraljevo
                                                        iii




    To
   Zadar                                                                                         BOSNIA AND                                             SARAJEVO
                                                            c
                                                            c
                                                            c




                                                                    Livno                                                                                                                  Pale
                                                                                                HERZEGOVINA                               ^                                                                            Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Visegrad
                                                                                                                               Jablanicko
                                                                                                                                 jezero
                                                                      A
                                                                      A
                                                                      A




                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gorazde
                                                                                                            Jablanica                          Konjic                                                                                       im
                                                                            lll




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Sjenica
                                                                                                                                                 Ne
                                                                              p
                                                                              p
                                                                              p




                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                          Foca
                                                                                                                                                    retv




                                                                                                                                                                                        (Srbinje)
                                                                                   s




                                                                                                                                                         a




                                                                                                                         Mostar



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ra
                                                                                                                                                                              Gacko
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Piv




                                                                                                                                     Stolac
                                                                                                                                                                                                              a




 43°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43°N


                                                                                                                                                                         ´
                                                                                                                                                                     Bileca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                             Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                             Trebinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Podgorica

             BOSNIA and
           HERZEGOVINA                                                      Ad r iat i c                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                    To Shkodër



                                                                                     0       10        20       30       40      50 Kilometers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALBANIA
                                                                                     0            10             20             30 Miles


                16°E                                                      17°E                                                                 18°E                                                               19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JULY 2006
