Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25052
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39040; SCL-39046)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$325 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
December 18, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of June 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah
Rp. 100 = US$ 0.012
US$ 1.00 = Rp. 9795
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia
January 1 - December 31
PT Telkom
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA             Analytical and Advisory Services
CAGR            Compound Annual Growth Rate
CML             Connected Main Lines
CoF             Cofinanciers
DGPT            Directorate General of Posts and Telecommunications
DLD             Domestic Long Distance
EBIT            Eamings Before Interests and Taxes
EBITDA          Eamings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
GOI             Government of Indonesia
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDD             Intemational Direct Dialing
IFC             International Finance Corporation
IMF             Intemational Monetary Fund
Indosat         PT Indosat
ITU             International Telecommunication Union
JOS             Joint Operation Scheme
KSO             Keija Sama Operasi
LIS             Lines in Service
MTPT            Ministry of Tourism, Post and Telecommunications
MOU             Memorandum of Understanding
NBF             Not Bank Financed
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
OEG             Operations Evaluation Group
PIU             Project Implementation Unut
PLDT            Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company
PPI             Private Participation i Infrastructure
SDH             Synchronous Digital Hierarchy
TA              Technical Assistance
Telkom          PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia
Telkomsel       PT Telekomunikasi Seluler
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Diiector:       Andrew Steer
Sector Manager/Director:      Pierre Guislain
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Rajesh Pra4han



INDONESIA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2 Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              11
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   13
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                         17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              28






Project ID: P004001                                        Project Name: Indonesia - Telecom Sector
Modernization
Team Leader: Rajesh B. Pradhan                             TL Unit: CITPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        IReport Date: December 26, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Indonesia - Telecom Sector Modernization        LC/ITF Number: CPL-39040;
SCL-39046
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                             Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: Telecommunications (97%); Central govemment
administration (3%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/20/1994                              Effective: 06/15/1995         06/15/1995
Appraisal.  12/09/1994                                 MTR:
Approval:  11/07/1995                               Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOIlMTPT; GOI/Telkom
Other Partners: France, Gerrnany (KfW), Japan EXIM, Japan OECF, US EXIM
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-dm Kassum                         Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     Andrew D. Steer                            M. Haug
Sector Manager:       Pierre A. Guislain                         Peter R. Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:  Rajesh B. Pradhan                          A. Shanmugarajah
ICR PrimaryAuthor:    Peter L. Smith; Rajesh B.
Pradhan; A. Shanrnugarajah;
Kashmira Daruwalla; Carlos R.
Gomez
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-Likely, UN=Urdikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Hlghly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. Until the early 1990s, the role of the private sector in the Indonesian telecommunications sector
was mainly limited to participation in revenue sharing schemes (with no management control over business
operations) or joint ventures with one of the two state-owned telecommunications operators. There was
little competition in the main telecommunications services. Furthermore, by 1994 there were only about
3.5 million telephone lines for a population of about 190 million, the equivalent of 1.8 lines per 100 people.
One of the thrusts of the project was to expand the role of private investors in the sector in ways that
brought international private management expertise to the sector and promoted competition in line with the
legal framework that existed at that time. This framework required all investment in the sector to be in
cooperation with, or by, one of the two designated state telecommunications operators, Telkom or Indosat.
3.1.2. The main objective of the project was to assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in the
implementation of the long-termi development program for the telecommunications sector aimed at
enhancing its international competitiveness through: (a) the formulation and implementation of a sectoral
legal and regulatory framework and (b) modernization of Indonesia's telecommunications services and
network. The project supported a reform program for the sector based on three key elements: (a) entry of
world-class operators; (b) competition in all market segments; and (c) reorganization of Telkom, the
incumbent domestic operator.
3.1.3. The project objectives reflected the priorities identified in the 1995 Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Indonesia, which called for tailoring "public investment projects to eliminate critical
infrastructure bottlenecks while increasing the role of the private sector". The objectives were also
consistent with the Government's policy initiatives, which included the award of a second national cellular
license, implementation of large-scale joint operating schemes, reorganization of Telkom, review of the
legal environment, and the initial public offering of shares in Telkom, as well as its target of bringing an
additional 5 million telephone lines into service by 1999.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1. The original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. The project was designed to achieve its objectives through three components: (a) a policy
component of advisory services and capacity building for the Ministry of Tourism, Posts and
Telecommunications (MITPT); (b) an investment component for Telkom; and (c) a technical assistance
component for Telkom.
3.3.2. The Policy component included support and capacity building for: (a) reviewing and developing,
as appropriate, the telecommunications legal and regulatory environment to ensure effective entry of private
investors and operators; (b) strengthening MTPT's capacity to manage regulatory issues in the emerging
multioperator environment; (c) reviewing management and allocation of radio frequency spectrum; and (d)
developing plans for the provision of rural telephone services on a commercial basis.
3.3.3. The Investment component supported improvements in Telkom's quantity and quality of service,
and network modernization through: (a) the installation of local and interexchange networks to use
effectively an additional 1 million lines of switching capacity in Jakarta and Surabaya; (b) the installation
- 2 -



of a second fiber optical backbone system between Jakarta and Surabaya; (c) the installation of submarine
fiber optical systems to upgrade transmission facilities to Kalimantan and Sulawesi; and (d) the
enhancement of information systems to improve Telkom's business processes.
3.3.4. The Technical Assistance component supported: (a) the strengthening the project
implementation, marketing, customer services, and managerial capacities of Telkom through the provision
of specialized marketing and managerial services; and (b) improving Telkom's managerial capacity through
the implementation of its restructuring program.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1. The components noted above were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. The project was not reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group. Quality at entry was considered to
have been satisfactory. The project was designed taking into account lessons learned from previous
telecommunications projects in Indonesia. The potential risks identified for the project fell into two
categories: (a) delays in procurement and (b) a shortfall in Telkom institutional capacity to implement the
project To avoid delays in procurement, engineering and site identification were coompleted before the
project launch, advance procurement actions were required by Telkom and the terms of reference for all
consultancy requirements were completed during project preparation. To address the shortfall in Telkom's
institutional capacity to implement the project, technical assistance was provided to Telkom's project
implementation unit for the project management, implementation, and the procurement process. However,
at the time of appraisal, the financial crisis of 1997 and subsequent political turmoil that hit Indonesia were
not foreseen and delayed project completion by one year.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.2. Objective 1: Fornnuation and implementation of a sectoral legal and regulatory frameworlk
The achievement of this objective is assessed as satisfactory in respect of the following aspects of the
Indonesian telecommunications sector: (a) private investment, (b) competition, and (c) legal and regulatory
framework.
(a) Private investrnent. During the course of the project there were three main channels for private
investment in the sector large-scale build-operate-transfer (BOT) schemes - commonly referred to
by their Indonesian acronym as KSOs - with Telkom for local telephone networks; cellular mobile
operators; and partial privadzation of Telkom and Indosat.
(i) KSOs. Starting in 1995, following an international competitive bidding process, the KSOs
operated and developed the local telephone network in five out of seven Telkom's operating
regions (i.e., all of Indonesia except Telkom's Jakarta and Surabaya operating regions.) Each
KSO investor consortium consisted of one or two major international telecommunications
operators together with intemational and local investors. They agreed to specific local
telephone line installation targets totaling about 2 million lines, and revenue sharing with
Telkom according to a specified formula. Unlike other build/transfer schemes often seen in
other sectors and countries, the KSOs did not provide for state guarantees of financial
- 3 -



outcomes, so that all commercial risks were bome by the private investors. The other
distinction of KSOs was their control over the entire assets-existing Telkom as well as new
infrastructure-during the period of the contract. The consortia were granted limited
authorization for the provision of fixed local telephone services in their region. Separate
authorization was required to provide other services. The government's intention with the
KSO scheme was to mobilize private capital, and technical and managerial expertise to the
telecommunications sector. The ownership structure of each of the five regional KSO
investment consortiurs is listed in Table 1. IFC provided financing for the Pramindo KSO,
which operated in Sumatra.
Table 1: Private Investors in KSO Regions
Sumatra     West Java    Central Java   Kalimantan   East Indonesia
KSO Investor      Pramindo    Aria West      M.G.T.I.       Mitratel   Bukaka Malindo
Consortium         Ikat
Foreign Telecom   France Cable  MediaOne    Telstra Global   Cable &     Singapore
Participant      & Radio     (AT&T)          (20%)        Wireless     Telecom
(Equity Share)     (35%)         (35%)      NTT (15 %)       (25%)        (40%)
Local and Other      65%          65%           65%           75%            60%
Participants
(Equity Share)
By December 1999, in less than four years, the KSOs had invested about $1.6 billion and installed
about 1.3 million local telephone lines, representing at that time about 24 percent of all fixed telephone
lines in Indonesia. By the end of 2001, the KSOs had connected 2.08 million lines, the equivalent of
43 percent of the total additional connected lines in Indonesia during that period (see Chart 1.)
-4-



Chart 1: Total and KSO-constructed Fxed Telephone Lines in
Service, 1995-2001
8,000,000
7,000,000 -
6,000,000 -
5,000,000
4,000,000
3,000,000
2,000,000
1,000,000
1995      1996     1997      1998     1999      2000     2001
v Total fixed lines in service * KSO-constructed lines in service
Source: Telkom
Despite the significant KSO investment and fixed-line connections, the previously agreed
targets were not met for March 1999 -end of the build-out commitment period. The sharp
devaluation of the Rupiah in 1997 sparked a chain of events that placed most of the KSOs
under severe financial strain. In June 1998, Telkom and the KSO operators signed a
memorandum of understanding (MOU) that was intended to assist the sustainability of the
KSOs in the dramatically changed market environment. Thus, the MOU provided fora
reduction in the KSO build-out requirement from 2 million to 1.268 million lines together with
a temporary reduction (until 1999) of Telkom's revenue share from the KSOs. Nevertheless,
in spite of the MOU, most of the KSOs were unable to fulfill their revenue sharing and
network build-out obligations. After the crisis, partly as a result of the increased power of
parliament in the post-Suharto era, the KSOs continued to face difficulties primarily due to
their inability to obtain Govemment approval to raise tariffs. Of the five KSOs, Telkom has
bought out the operations in two regions: Kalimantan (in 2001) and Sumatra (in 2002). The
KSO in Eastem Indonesia, partnered with Singapore Telecom is expected to continue under
new arrangements. Negotiations for Telkom to buy out the KSOs in West Java and Central
Java are incomplete.
Although the KSOs attracted participation by major international telecommunications
corporations as well as large-scale private investment, the KSO structure inherently had
important drawbacks compared to conventional business structures, as it (a) reduced flexibility
of business response in the face of changed political and market conditions; (b) made effective
management and motivation of staff (who generally remained employees of Telkom) more
difficult; and (c) complicated downstream new entry because of contractual terms regarding
exclusivity.
During the appraisal, it was envisaged that the dynamics of this initiative would lead to more
-5-



competition and operators in the future. Within five years, there was the potential for the
regional KSO arrangements to be converted into autonomous regional operating companies,
each with the participation of a highly qualified foreign operator, providing not only local
service, but prospectively also long distance service within their operating region in
competition with Telkom and Indosat.
(ii) Cellular mobile operators. Opening the cellular mobile market to competition and private
investment was one of the major themes of the Bank's dialogue with the Government during
the preparation and implementation of this project. Thus, the Bank arranged for a consultancy
(funded under the Japan Grant Fund) to assess policy options to optimize the cellular market
segment. Subsequently, the Bank emphasized the importance of ending cross-ownership by
Telkom and Indosat of cellular operators (see section b).
The number of cellular mobile subscribers in Indonesia has increased from 210,000 in 1995, to
about 8.6 million projected for the end of 2002, representing an investment of $5 billion and
exceeding the 7.4 million fixed-lines in service projected for 2002. The market is dominated by
three major national services: Excelcomindo, Satelindo, and Telkomsel. Each of these
operators has had high levels of private investment Singapore Telecom holds 35 percent
equity in Telkomsel - the remaining 65 percent is held by Telkom. Until recently, Deutsche
Telekom owned 25 percent of Satelindo, but now is a 100 percent subsidiary of Indosat, which
is expected to reduce its Govemment control and ownership from 57 percent to 15 percent by
December 2002. In the case of Excelcomindo, the company is majority privately owned by the
local company Telekomindo, and Nynex (a subsidiary of Verizon), both holding 60 and 23.1
percent of the equity, respectively. Thus, during 1995 to 2002, the cellular mobile sector has
gone from representing a small part of the total telephone market, to one that exceeds the
number of fixed-lines and has very large amounts of private investment. Approximate
estimates of recent and projected investment by cellular operators in Indonesia range from
$700 million in 2000, to more than $1 billion in 2002.
(iii) Privatization of Telkom and Indosat. Both Telkom and Indosat are listed on the Jakarta,
London, and New York stock exchanges. As a result of initial public offerings as well as other
transactions, the percentage of Indosat and Telkom respectively that are owned by private
investors has increased significantly (see Tables 2 and 3.)
Table 2: Indosat - Ownership and Privatization Transactions
Year                      Private (%)                   GOI (%)
Priorto 1994                            0                             100
1994                                    35                            65
2001                                    43                            57
Dec. 2002 (expected)                    85                            15
Table 3: Telkom - Ownership and Privatization Transactions
Year                      Private (°)                   GOI (%)
Priorto 1995                            0                             100
1995                                    34                            66
2001                                    46                            54
- 6-



(b) Competition. Between 1995 and 2002, important achievements were made in increasing
competition in the Indonesian telecommunications markets. Particularly notable are the following
developments:
(i) In 1995, cellular service in Indonesia was in its infancy and was limited to small regional
operators and two national operators, all partly owned by Telkom and/or Indosat. Currently,
vigorous competition occurs between three national cellular operators with estimated 2002
market shares as follows: Excelcornindo (17 percent), Satelindo/Indosat (30 percent), and
Telkomsel (51 percent). About 2 percent of the market share is with small regional and
analogue operators.
(ii) Telkom's monopoly ended in August 2002, and Indosat was awarded a license to operate in the
fixed-line market. However, real competition for fixed-local telephone service comes from
cellular. With about 8.6 million cellular subscribers projected at the end of 2002 compared
with 7.4 million fixed lines in service, there are now more cellular than fixed-lines in Indonesia.
(iii) After the financial crisis of 1997, there was considerable sustained pressure to merge Telkom
and Indosat into one company. Nevertheless, in line with the Bank's recommendation and the
Government's commitments to the IMEF as set out in the letters of intent, the GOI decided to
promote competition by implementing a two full service-operator policy, whereby over a short
time both Telkom and Indosat are authorized to provide a full range of domestic and
intemational telecommunications services (see Table 4).
(iv) The effectiveness of competition has also been increased by the significant reduction of
cross-ownership in the sector. In a set of transactions in May 2001, Indosat gave up its large
minority share in Telkomsel and acquired Telkom's large minority share in Satelindo. As a
result, both Telkom and Indosat respectively have control of a major cellular operator without
cross-ownership from the other. In addition to promoting competition, these actions allow
optimal development of the businesses and increase shareholder value. The combined values
of Telkom and Indosat represent about 16 percent of total capitalized value of finns listed on
the Jakarta Stock Exchange.
Table 4: Telkom and Indosat Expanded Service Authorizations
Market seement              Before Auest 2002       Au ust 2002         Augst 2003
VALelkonI Indosat     Telkom   | ndosat    Telkom I  ndoRnst
Localfixed                   Yes        No         Yes i     Yes       Yes       Yes
Donmestic LnDitce            Ye$        No        Yes        No       Yes       Yes
lniternational Direct Dialinz  No       yes        No    I   Yes       Yes       Yes
(c) Legal and regulatory framework The project sought to develop the legal and regulatory
environment for the telecommunications sector in order to promote competition and large-scale
private investmnent. The scope of the project did not include the establishment of an independent
regulatory body for the sector since that option was not available at that time under the Suharto
regime. In addition to policy dialogue under the project, additional funds were provided by the
Country Management Unit under a policy dialogue AAA activity, to enhance, broaden, and
advance the sector policy agenda. This effort was very effective as the Bank prepared a
"Telecommunications Development Priority Action Plan" under the request of the coordinating
- 7 -



Minister of the Economy, which affiliated serious consideration of establishing a nonministerial
regulatory agency, actions on competition in basic service, and resolution of cross ownership
between Telkom and Indosat.
4.1.3. As a result of the Bank's policy dialogue, there were significant achievements as indicated by the
size of private investment in the Indonesian telecom sector over the period 1996 to 2002. These project
achievements include:
*   Proclamation (as a result of dialogue with the Bank in respect of preparation of this project) of a
decree that created the possibility of large-scale private investment through the joint operating
schemes.
*   Establishment (until 1997) of a price-cap type formula to determine tariff changes for main
telephone services. The price cap formula was developed with assistance from a project-funded
consultancy.
*   Passage of a new telecommunications law in 1999, which ended the requirement that all
telecommunications services be provided by or in cooperation with Telkom or Indosat. This major
change reflected dialogue with the Bank during the project and was supported by a project-funded
consultancy.
*   Preparation and publication in 1999 of the "blueprint" sector policy document which provided for
increased competition under the two full-service provider policies. This policy also reflected
dialogue with the Bank and helped avoid an anticompetitive merger of Telkom and Indosat.
*   Early termination of the exclusivity rights held by Telkom on local and national long-distance
services (2002), and by Indosat and Satelindo on international services (announced for 2003.) This
government decision also reflected dialogue with the Bank during project supervision.
4.1.4. Nevertheless, the telecommunications regulatory development agenda in Indonesia is incomplete.
Progress still needs to made in the areas of: (a) establishing a non-ministerial regulatory body; (b)
improving transparency of process; (c) effectively implementing an appropriate interconnection policy; and
(d) establishing an appropriate tariff regime that both protects customer interests and gives confidence to
investors. Dialogue between the govemment and the Bank on these policy and regulatory issues is
continuing under a AAA budget. Additional assistance in these areas is planned under a technical
assistance project on infrastructure policy.
4.1.5. In two other areas, the project made limited progress. With respect to rural communications
services, partial progress was achieved through the "universal service" obligations of the KSOs.
Furthermore, business model approaches for accelerated provision of rural service on a commercial basis
were developed under the project, but never implemented (in a contemplated pilot project) because of the
severity of the economic crisis that started in 1997. With respect to radio frequency management, the
project supported plans for development of more modem approaches, but these were not implemented (in a
contemplated follow-on project) because of changed priorities after the financial and economic crisis.
4.1.6. Objective 2: Modernization of telecommunications services and networks. The achievement
of this objective is assessed as satisfactory. It was attained by the installation and commissioning of
modem technology in Telkom's local access, interexchange and long distance networks, as well as by the
improved operation and management of the networks. Telkom has an advanced network that is fully
digitalized. In spite of adverse economic and political situation, total fixed-lines grew at 16.6 percent
CAGR during the project period raising the penetration rate for fixed telephone lines from 1.3 percent in
1994 to 3.25 percent at the end of 2001. Telkom also greatly increased the number of telephone kiosks
(payphones) to serve primarily poorer parts of the population that could not afford fixed phone service. The
- 8 -



growth of telephone lines in service over the period 1990 to 2001 is shown in Chart 2.
Chart 2: Total Telephone Lines (Fixed and Cellular), 1990-2001
18,000,000 -
16,000,000 -
14,000,000 -                  2                               i
12,000,000 -        .         f
10,000,000-                     _
8,000,000-                                                      A
6,000,000-
4,000,000-                          -
2,000,000
0
o    -    N X     Nt  U)   tD  r-   Go  C)   0        C-
a)  0)   a)  a)   0)  CD   0)  a)   a)  0)   0   0    o
CDaCDC) a) ax                  0) o)  0) CD aw a   v' 
--+-Total telephone lines  Fixed lines in -service  Cellular subscribers
Source: Telkom
4.2 Outputs by components:
Policy Component
4.2.1. The project satisfactorily completed most components as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR).
4.2.2. Consultant advisory services, supported by continuous dialogue by the Bank's supervision team,
were provided in all areas indicated in the SAR. As indicated earlier, the component supported the
emergence of competition and private investment in the sector, the monitoring of the KSO performance, and
helped to address important policy, legislative, and regulatory issues with respect to tariff adjustment,
network interconnection, rural telecommunications services, and radio spectrum management.
4.2.3. The list of policy and regulatory consultancies supported under the project is shown in Section 10.
This component also provided significant training support to the Ministry and DGPT staff to expose
officials to best international practices and to upgrade professional skills. Nevertheless, due to a number of
changes in the institutional set-up and leadership of the DGPT, as well as availability of grant funds from
bilateral sources (which were used instead of project funds), only 70 percent of funds allocated under this
component were used. This comnponent was closed on the originally planned closing date of June 30, 2001.
Investment Component
-9-



4.2.4. Telkom's investment program (1994 to 1998) was supported by both Bank and cofinanciers
(OECF Japan, EXIM Japan, KfW, France and EXIM USA). The Bank assistance focused on areas such
as outside plant network rehabilitation, expansion and capacity utilization, given that these components are
the least attractive to the donors. Over 2.7 million digital line units of telephone switching capacity were
installed in about 878 locations. Outside plant facilities and the junction network in Jakarta and Surabaya
were upgraded and expanded to achieve increased capacity utilization. Modem high-capacity optical fiber
and submarine cable transmission systems, were installed for the Surabaya-Ujungpandang-Banjaarmasin
and Pangkal Pinang-Pontianak routes. Transmission systems were expanded in about 420 locations to
carry the growing traffic. Fifteen outside Plant Maintenance Centers were established to improve technical
operation and management of the local access networks. Enhanced information infrastructure and
improved training facilities were provided. The project also enabled Telkom to address Y2K audit and
correction on its networks and management systems. This component contributed to the increase in the total
network capacity (including KSO divisions) from 1994 to 2001, which grew from 3.9 to 8.8 million lines,
and the increase in capacity utilization from 63 percent to 82 percent for the same period (see Annex 1.)
Additionally, quality of service as measured by local and long distance call completion rates increased from
53 percent and 43 percent to 74 percent and 66 percent respectively, from 1994 to 2001, however, these
achievements were below the appraisal targets due to significant reductions in capital expenditure in the
last three years following the economic crisis in 1997. To improve access to telecommunications facilities
to those who cannot afford to own a telephone line, telephone kiosks and payphones increased from
100,000 to 383,000 during 1994 to 2001.
Technical Assistance Component
4.2.5. The project supported capacity building for Telkom, in planning and implementing projects to
exploit the most modem and cost effective technologies, and provide improved customer service. Telkom's
managerial capacity to succeed in an increasingly competitive market has been significantly improved. This
perfornance is reflected in Standard & Poor's recent (June 2002) B+ credit rating for Telkom. The
component also provided assistance to Telkom to modernize its training facilities and delivery of training.
Accordingly, assistance was provided to update curricula and training modules to effectively manage
modem information and communications technologies. Training of instructors for a range of courses to
familiarize themselves with developments in the regional training institutions was supported. Telkom's
target is to provide 10 training days per staff, thus ensuring a well-trained staff providing good quality
service. Partly as a result of these initiatives, staff productivity has improved to 5 staff per 1,000 lines in
2001 from 13 in 1995, exceeding the appraisal target of 7. This result is in line with intemational trends
and will be improved with the deployment of wireless technologies in the access networks. Consultant
services were provided in the areas of activity-based costing and interconnection management thereby
strengthening Telkom's management capacity in a competitive multioperator environment.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  At appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated at 33 percent, based on overall
investments expected to be made by Telkorn. This estimate did not take into account the benefits that
would be accrued due to the impact of the other elements of the overall reform components of the project,
such as the increase in numbers of lines due to private investment and participation through the KSOs,
increased cellular access, and new employment opportunities generated through the development of new
services. Using the same methodology and assumptions at the time of appraisal, the actual ERR of
Telkom's investments is estimated at 32 percent, which is comparable to the ERR estimated at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
-10-



4.4.1. Telkom's prudent financial management helped minimize the negative impact of the financial crisis
in Indonesia on its performance since 1997. Telkom was also shielded from the full impact of Rupiah
devaluation, as the KSOs faced the investment risk for the expansion and management of the network
outside of Jakarta and Surabaya, and Telkom continued to receive minimum revenues from the KSOs
(essentially lease payments in respect of Telkom's assets operated and managed by KSOs.) Telkom's
financial performance indicators are provided in Annex 3. While Telkom's financial returns were affected
due to the downturn in the economy, Telkom met both its debt service coverage and internal cash
generation covenants. Throughout the project period, Telkom's debt service coverage and internal cash
generation ratios were well above the 1.5 times the debt service requirements and 50 percent of its average
annual capital expenditures over current and following years, respectively.
4.4.2. As of December 31, 2001, both the liquidity and financial position of Telkom have deteriorated due
to the action being taken by Telkom to resolve cross-ownerships and KSOs buyout. Telkom's liquidity
stood at 0.7 as compared to 2.7 on December 31, 2000. This drop in current ratio was due mainly to
payment due to Indosat for the purchase of 35 percent shares of Telkomsel and buyout of the KSOs. In
addition, on December 31, 2001, the long-term debt to total capitalization stood at 70 percent as compared
to 53 percent as of December 31, 2000. With the consolidation of Telkomsel's account (majority Telkom
owned cellular operator) with Telkom's account starting fiscal 2002, the liquidity and financial positions
have improved to 0.9 and 18 percent, respectively, as of September 30, 2002.
4.5 Instititional development impact:
4.5.1. The project's institutional development impact was modest. The partial privatization of Telkom
through listings on stock exchanges, required it to strengthen its accounting and financial functions,
contributing to increase the professionalism of Telkom's management and ability to make effective use of
its human and financial resources. Telkom's staff received on-the-job training to develop in-house
capabilities in all aspects of operations and thus reduce reliance on foreign expertise. The staff
productivity increased from 10 to 5 workers per 1,000 lines in service, exceeding the established target.
Additionally, with technical assistance from the Bank, MTPT was able to develop an agenda for regulatory
activities, assess, recommend, and implement regulatory action on priority matters. MTPT was also able
to review proposals for tariff revisions and recommend an appropriate tariff rebalancing mechanism, which
was implemented until the disruption of the Rupiah collapse and economic crisis. In spite of these
achievements, we note that DGPT's ability to apply intemational best practice in addressing regulatory
issues remained weak at the end of the project
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
5.1.2. The major extemal factor affecting the project was the severity of the unforeseen financial and
economic crisis that began in 1997. This factor, coupled with difficulty in obtaining authorizations for
increased tariffs (see below) were the key factors in ending the commercial viability of the KSOs. In
addition, the economic crisis contributed to the delay in the implementation of the investment and technical
assistance components of the project by one year, and accordingly the closing date of the loan was extended
to June 30, 2002, from its original date of June 30, 2001.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. Following the Rupiah collapse and the end of the Suharto regime, the government repeatedly
delayed authorizing tariff increases for the main telephone service that would have reflected the published
- 1 1 -



tariff adjustment formula. Public antipathy to all PPI deals was a contributory factor to GOI reluctance in
adjusting the tarifis. Consequently, investment in fixed telephone networks was discouraged and the
viability of the KSOs business scheme was damaged. While this approach was under government control,
it also reflected the political crisis and much increased power of parliament in the post-Suharto era.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. Telkom successfully managed the complex and intricate activities related to: (a) developing
exceptionally large investment programs, (b) implementation of these programs by connecting a very large
number of new subscribers, and (c) simultaneously establishing effective operation and maintenance
systems for the network. This effort resulted in substantial improvement in the quality and the efficiency of
the services. All this is attributable largely to the setting-up of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which
functioned efficiently and effectively in liaison with the project planning and management department. In
addition, Telkom employed consultants for implementation of each project component in liaison with the
project planning and management department. Consultants were employed by Telkom in particular for: (a)
its corporate planning process, (b) program/project management, (c) construction supervision, (d) technical
aspects of capacity utilization, and (e) interconnection tariff setting arrangements. These tasks and
activities were satisfactorily performed and completed. GOI and Telkom evaluated the perfornance of
consultants as satisfactory.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1. The total cost of the project was $1,090.70 million as compared to the appraisal estimate of
$1,412.70 million. Details of the project cost and financing are available in Annex 2. The Bank financed
$215.0 million of the total project cost as compared to the original Bank loan of $325 million. As part of
the Bank dialogue with GOI on portfolio restructuring after the financial crisis in 1997, $96.7 million was
cancelled at the request of the Government to reduce the amount of overall borrowing by the country. A
savings of $13.3 million will be cancelled effective end-October 2002, as this is the balance remaining
unused after payments on the withdrawal applications received by the Bank by October 31, 2002, have
been made.
5.4.2. Given the economic and financial situation of 1997, and its effect on demand for service, Telkom
management controlled its investment expenditures to align with the reduction to reduced demand. In
addition, Telkom wanted to minimize its exposure to foreign exchange risk. The main component affected
by this decision was the outside plant network expansion, which was funded through Bank funds and
Telkom's internal resources. The Bank supported Telkom's disciplined approach with respect to scrutiny
on capital expenditures on fixed-line build-out as well as on equipment needed for improving quality of
service. Telkom focused on improving the utilization of its network capacity and thus reached an
utilization rate of over 80 percent, much higher than TelecomAsia in Thailand and PLDT in Philippines.
These two companies over-built capacity and now have utilization rates of near 70 percent and both now
suffer financially. Consequently, the total project cost was lower than the appraisal estimates. In addition,
significant cost savings in both the optical fiber and SDH transmission equipment between appraisal
estimates in 1994 and the tendering period in 1996 contributed to lower the project cost.
5.4.3. The cancellation of the loan arnount and the reduction in overall capital expenditure did affect
negatively the achievement of the physical performance indicators as agreed at project appraisal (Annex 1.)
Nevertheless, the total lines in service in the sector as a whole, has been augmented by the significant
growth in the number of cellular lines which now exceeds the number of fixed-lines. Telkom expects
cellular growth to accelerate and fixed-line growth to stagnate as the cellular substitution effect kicks in.
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
6.1.1. Sustainability of the project's results has been rated as "likely" for the following reasons:
*   The role of the private sector in Indonesian telecommunications appears to be irreversible and
continues to grow.
*   The existence of market competition and private investment creates strong incentives for continued
performance improvement. Thus, the managerial capacity of Telkom will continue to improve
because of competitive incentives, learming from competitors, involvement of foreign partners such
as Singapore Telecommunications, and the obligations of the reporting requirements to the New
York Stock Exchange.
*   The networks installed by both the KSOs and Telkom continue to be maintained and used.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1. At Telkom, the transition to regular operations was successfully completed with the disbanding of
the project management unit (PMU) in mid-2002.
6.2.2. With respect to the overall Indonesian telecommunications sector, although real progress has been
made which has transformed the structure and performance of the sector, several important areas of the
policy and regulatory framework need to be addressed. These include: establishment of an effective
non-ministerial telecommunications regulatory agency, placement of a nonarbitrary price regulation
mechanism; adoption of an improved wireless licensing mechanisms; and the establishment of more
effective universal service mechanism. Dialogue between the GOI and the Bank on these policy and
regulatory issues is underway with AAA budget. Additional assistance on these areas is planned under a
technical assistance project on infrastructure policy.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1. The overall performance was satisfactory. The project was consistent with the GOI's desire to
undertake a comprehensive telecommunications sector reform and with the Bank's CAS for Indonesia.
Active participation and commitment of all stakeholders during project identification, preparation and
appraisal led to successful outcomes in institutional reform. The project team built on the relationship
developed between the Bank and GOI during the previous telecommunications projects implemented in
Indonesia.
7.1.2. Since the beginning, the Bank made extensive efforts to involve the GOI, Telkom, Indosat and
donors in an interactive process of sector restructuring and development. This resulted in broad consensus
among all parties on the main elements of reform and the specifics of implementation. During all stages of
the project, the Bank maintained close dialogue with the GOI and Telkom to ensure that the project
objectives were directly in line with the client's goals for the sector, especially during the period of the
financial crisis. The staff mix and its continuity during preparation, appraisal, and supervision were
appropriate and satisfactory.
- 13 -



7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1. GOI and Telkom have emphasized the extent of the harmonious and fruitful working relationship,
which the Bank maintained with all the parties under the project. The resulting positive contributions to
sector and institutional developments and Telkom operations were particularly recognized and appreciated.
7.2.2. The overall supervision of the project was satisfactory. Regular supervision missions were carried
out and documentation on the project is adequate. The Bank team ensured that DGPT and Telkom
followed the Bank procurement guidelines. When deemed necessary, DGPT and Telkom were requested to
provide additional infonnation or explanation for their award recommendations. DGPT and Telkom
provided the infonnation requested in a timely manner. The Bank team reassessed in detail Telkom's
award recommendation on a procurement case, which was brought to the attention of the Bank's
Investigation Unit. Telkom provided all information and documents necessary to carry out the Bank's
review. Based on the information provided, the Bank team concluded that Telkom had followed Bank
procurement guidelines.
7.2.3 Modifications in the project, including extension of closing dates were processed by Bank's staff in
an efficient manner in order to respond to the Borrower's needs.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1. Overall Bank performance was "satisfactory" under the project. The closing of this project is a
culmination of 16 years of cooperation with the GOI in the development of the telecommunications sector
in Indonesia, by far the largest recipient of Bank lending in this sector. As a result, many leading
investment banks and consulting companies have offered their services in telecommunications deregulation
and privatization to the govemment The Bank's involvement in the sector has helped the govemment to
reorganize the sector, has created openings for private investors and operators in basic services, has
introduced competition in various segments of the sector, and has reorganized the corporatized Telkom and
its management process.
Borrower
74 Preparation:
7.4.1. The Borrower participated actively and satisfactorily in the preparation of the project. This
very-positive position on the Borrower's part promoted from the beginning, consensus on the elements of
reform and the methodology of implementation. The PIJ within Telkom, responsible for project
management of the Telkom's investment component and technical assistance, was identified and appointed
before appraisal. Prior to negotiations, the Borrower had developed a detailed project implementation plan.
The quality of the Borrower's commitment and contributions to the preparation of the project are notable.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1. The project made major contributions to the government implementation performance in several
ways: (a) timely expert advice was made available through consultancies, (b) dialogue with the Bank
supervision team was influential and reinforced by the size of the project financing in the sector, and (c)
training exposed officials to international best practice. Partly as a result of the project, major steps were
taken toward sector reform, institutional improvements, and continued evolution toward sector
liberalization. Given the overall progress made on sector reform during the project period with the issue of
the blueprint document, the new telecommunications law, and the separation between the regulator and
operator, the govemment's performance can be considered satisfactory.
- 14 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1. DGPT was the implementing agency for the policy and regulatory component (Part A of the loan
agreement) of the project. Due to a number of changes in the institutional set-up and leadership of the
DGPT, there were delays in the use of funds. This was compounded by the availability of grant funds from
bilateral sources (which were used instead of project funds). For the policy component, only 70 percent of
the funds were allocated and it was closed as originally planned on June 30, 2001, even though several
priority agenda items were not fully resolved. The Bank has reminded DGPT that it has not submitted
audited project accounts for fiscal year 2001, which were due by June 31, 2002, as required under the loan
agreement.
7.6.2. Telkom was the implementing agency for the managerial strengthening and improvement of the
telecommunications network (Part B and C of the loan agreement) of the project Drawing on the best
benefits from the technical assistance, consultancy and training services financed under previous Bank
operations, Telkom efficiently managed the complex and challenging tasks by initiating important
organizational restructuring and successfully planning and implementing its rapid development Telkom
also maintained accurate and detailed financial records at the PMU level and submitted timely, audited
corporate and project finance accounts. Telkom met all its covenants under the project agreement.
7.6.3. The partial opening of Telkom's ownership to the international capital market provided additional
resources for ongoing and future development. Telkom has confronted the same challenges such as
privatization, liberalization, new technologies and services, as other world operators and has undergone
vast organizational and cultural transition. Nevertheless, Telkom unlike other major operators in Europe
and North America did not embark on building network capacity. In fact, Telkom cancelled Bank's loans
and other foreign denominated loans in the context of slowing demand for fixed telephone service. On the
other hand, many first-class global operators such as British Telecom, Deutsch Telekom, and France
Telecom, which are also partially privatized, did launch an ambitious domestic and intemational network
expansion and are now carrying heavy debts in the order of $35, $40, and $30 billion, respectively.
Telkom has transformed itself from being completely dependent on government for financing capital
expenditure, to a market and customer-driven company responsible to its shareholders and capable of
acquiring funds for its own investments.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1. As in the previous projects, the government performance continued to be satisfactory and their
relationship with the Bank was good and fruitful throughout the implementation of the project Overall
Borrower perfornance and participation in both project preparation and implementation is rated
satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
(a) In the telecommunications sector, where technological advances occur rapidly, it is necessary to
build flexibility into projects. In Indonesia, this approach allowed for project realignment when
necessary, thus accommodating the redefinition of needs that helped drive down the costs of
providing services.
(b) The provision of adequate technical assistance at the beginning to build good project management
and implementation capacity at Telkom, greatly contributed to the success and sustainability of the
- 15 -



project.
(c) Emphasis on promoting competition in the telecommunications services sector, which creates
multiple channels for investment, accelerates the diffusion of best practices and changes the
incentives for improved performance. Promoting competition was a key factor in the transformed
performance of the Indonesian telecommunications sector, and is a key contributor to the
sustainability of the outcomes.
(d) The KSO investment structure was clearly not the first choice for bringing large scale private
investment coupled with management expertise into the sector. The government selected this
mechanism because it was more politically acceptable than the altematives. Because of the
inherent drawbacks of KSO or other concession-type business structures in accelerating private
investment, their advantages need to be balanced carefully in comparison with alternative
investment mechanisms. Furthermore, clarity of role for investors in making business decisions
and managing employees is very important. In addition, vigilance is necessary to avoid
commercially attractive contract terms, which can subsequently hinder market opening. The
conclusion is that the KSO scheme is not the best vehicle for private participation. IFC's OEG and
GICT's Credit and Portfolio Division jointly reached this conclusion with respect to IFC's
investment in one of the KSOs.
(e) To the extent that sector development involves major restructuring of infrastructure or other
important economic sectors, the engagement and involvement of economic ministries as well as
sector ministries can play a critically important role in maintaining focus on the economic policy
aspects of sector reform.
(f) In major reformns where private participation and sector restructuring are involved, building a
strong constituency for reform is important to minimize resistance to change. Bank interventions
should support preparation of plans and allocation of resources to address management, employee
and public perceptions and concerns. With respect to the telecommunications sector development
in the post-Suharto era in Indonesia, this approach needs to be extended to provide members of
parliament with balanced information on the nature of the economic policy choices related to the
enabling environment for large scale private investment in the sector.
(g) Continuity in the supervision team is absolutely critical for satisfactory project implementation.
The size and skill mix of the team should remain relevant to provide concise, well-analyzed, and
decision-oriented briefings on policy, strategy and complex project issues.
(h) The provision of AAA budget to supplement the policy dialogue under the project improves the
channel of communication with the government and helps advance the reform agenda.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
9.1.1. Telkom has provided the Bank its Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the project, dated
October 2002. A summary of this report is provided below.
9.1.2. The Telecommunications Sector Modernization Project supported the development of the
telecommunication facilities in Indonesia from 1995 to 2000. The aims of the project were to add about
1.2 million new customers, in addition to improving govemment's capability in policymaking and
regulatory oversight, and Telkom's capacity for effective operation and maintenance of existing modem
network facilities. The project's investment was funded by six international funding agencies that included
France, Germany, Japan EXIM, USA EXIM, OECF, and the World Bank.
- 16-



9.1.3. The outcome of the project has been rated successful despite the delay. While the Bank financed
about 22 percent of the total public sector investment in Telkom, it took the lead and was effective in
securing needed policy reforms and ensuring a balanced investment program by utilizing bilateral funding
for the development of Telkom's switching and transmission networks.
(b) Cofinanciers:
9.1.4. The Bank maintained a close dialogue with the donors and financed only those investment
components that were least attractive to donors. Dialogue with IFC was maintained in respect of private
entry into the telecommunications sector in Indonesia.
(c) Other partners (NVGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
10.1. This project is the last in a series of technical assistance and investment projects that started in the
late 1980s to address the acute and chronic shortage of telecommunications services and modernize the
sector. Key performance measures for the sector are ability to meet demand, quality of service, efficiency
of service, and national availability of service. Looking at the development of Indonesia's
telecommunications sector over the last decade, the total number of lines in service has increased from
about 450,000 in 1988 to about 16.8 million lines in late 2002, including telephone lines provided by
Telkom, KSOs, and cellular mobile operators. This expansion has eliminated what used to be chronic
shortages of telephone service. It has involved investments in the order of $11 billion to $12 billion, and
has only been possible, in terms of both finance and managerial implementation capacity, because the
sector was opened to multiple channels of investment, including private participation. Furthermore, the
rapid growth in the cellular market partly reflects the stimulus that has been created by competition in the
market.
11. Consultancies and Training Financed Under the Project
MTPT/DGPT
*   Project monitoring and management consultancy to assist DGPT in the monitoring progress of
KSO investors.
*   Personnel communication services consultancy to assist in preparation of tender.
*   Radio frequency management consultancy to assist DGPT in spectrum management.
*   Revision of the telecommunication regulatory framework.
*   Telecommunication training course for DGPT staff.
*   Interconnection in multimedia consultancy.
*   Standardization methodology of "X' factor calculation for price cap of domestic
telecommunications tariffs.
*   Preparation of Y2K program.
*   Program for progressive English competency.
Telkom
- 17 -



*   Construction management consultancy to assist Telkom in the implementation of the
Telecommunications Sector Modernization Project
*   Activity based costing system.
* Intercomnnection management.
* Human resources improvement program for training center.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Flscal Year Ending December 31         1994           1999           2001
Actual   SAR target  Actual  Actual
Exchange Capacity ('000)
Total Telkom Divisions            3,887     5,214     4,449    4,745
Total Capacity, KSO Divisions         0        4,020     3,909    4,060
Total Exchange Capacity            3,887      9,234     8,358    8,804
Lines in service ('000)
Telkom                      2,463      4,183     3,102    3,950
KSO                         0        3,607     2,709    3,269
Total                      2,463      7,790     5,811    7,219
Main telephone lines per 100 Inhabitants   1.28      3.50      2.93     3.25
Quality of Service
Number of Faults per 100 subscribers per year  2.5     0.5       0.6      1.7
Successful Call Completion Rate (Average)
Local (%)                    52.7      90.0      70.1     73.9
National Long Distance (%)          42.7      80.0       62.3    65.7
Staff Productivity
Employees per 1000 CML              17.0       7.0       6.2      5.2
-19



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component in US$ mii ion equivalent)
i    IILat tqst.  Percentage of
"iA."'       Apprisal
Switching Equipment                                333.70         545.00            163
Outside Plant Equipment                            384.10         167.80            44
Transmission Network                               315.20         215.40            68
Junction Network                                    92.30          36.80            40
Advanced Service Network                            16.70           7.10            45
Computer Support System                             10.30           2.80            27
Technical Assistance                                29.70          17.00             57
Total Baseline Cost                               1182.00         991.90
Physical Contingencies                             59.10           0.00
Price Contingencies                                47.80           0.00
Total Project Costs           1288.90         991.90
Interest during construction  123.80         98.80          80.00
Total Financing Required           1412.70         1090.70   _
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~qa -  z                                 Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    486.40         0.00         0.00         769.70      1256.10
(317.00)       (.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (317.00)
3. Services                  0.00          8.80         23.90         0.00        32.70
(0.00)        (8.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (8.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     486.40        8.80         23.90        769.70      1288.80
(317.00)       (8.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (325.00)
-20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expe      ICB                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~N.B.F tP ~ dt
1. Works                       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      211.61          0.00                      763.29       974.90
(208.05)       (0.00)          0           (0.00)      (208.05)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          7.59          9.41         17.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (6.95)        (0.00)       (6.95)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00'          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      211.61          0.00          7.59        772.70        991.90
(208.05)       (0.00)        (6.95)        (0.00)      (215.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units
Project Financing by Com onent (in US$ million equivalent)
';j~mponenti k-              2      ;i6 te NCe6 PaIP                                geoE 754   ICo;Aj k  Fr'Co F.
Switching Equipment     0.00      0.80     361.80     8.31     117.37   419.32    0.0  14671. 115.9
2
Outside Plant Equipment  244.00   0.00     134.20    82.13     18.60     67.10   33.7    0.0   50.0
Telecommunications      73.00     0.00     273.70    117.61     0.00    144.49   161.1   0.0   52.8
Equipment and Materials
Technical Assistance     8.00     0.00     23.90      6.95      0.61     9.41    86.9    0.0   39.4
-21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return
Assumptions
1.    The ERR estimate is based on the methodology used at the time of appraisal. The general
assumptions used in the calculation of the benefit and cost streams are provided below.
2.     The capital expenditures are the actual Telkom's investment during 1996 to 2001. The incremental
revenue and operating costs are calculated as the revenue and cost derived from the additional lines
connected in Telkom's Jakarta and Surabaya regions. The time horizon for the project cost and benefit
streams ranges from 1996 to 2010. At the end of this period, it is estimated that on average all equipment
provided under the project would have completed its useful life.
3.     Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return is estimated at 32 percent. This is an
underestimate of the true ERR because it does not include: (a) improvements in the existing network
performance due to the project, (b) estimates of consumer surplus, and (c) major productivity and quality
improvements expected to follow from the KSO initiative. In addition to quantitative factors, the project
contributes indirectly to poverty alleviation through general economic and social development linked to the
important productivity improvements, and market access and information that arise from a modem and
competitive telecommunications sector.
Economic Rate of Retum (Rupiah Billion)
Fiscal Year Ending December 31      1996  1997   1998    1999   2000   2001
Deflator                            1.00   1.09  2.20    2.43   2.73   3.12
Project Capital Expenditure for TELKOM  529  710  2,194  1,200  1,125  1,282
VAT on Capital Expenditure             19    18      24     15     17     19
Additional LIS ('000)                 810   742     354    244    282    340
Cumulative LIS ('000)                 810 1,552   1,906  2,150  2,432  2,772
Rev. /Av Line                        1.01   1.03   1.28   1.46   1.51   1.50
Op. CostlAv line                     0.47   0.51   0.60   0.73   0.77   0.81
Incremental Revenue                       1,606  2,431   3,148  3,672  4,168
Incremental Operating Cost                 795   1,146   1,576  1,881  2,233
Net Incremental Benefit             (510)   119   (886)   387    684    673
Net Incremental Benefit (1996 terms)  (510)  109  (403)   159    250    216
Economic Rate of Retum               32%
- 22 -



Telkom - Key Financial Indicators
Fiscal Year Ending December 31       1996         1997         1998         1999     2000   2001
Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target Actual Actual Actual
Profitability: (Rp. Billion)
Gross Operating Revenue (a)       4,918  5,076  5,419  5,090  6,046 6,600  6,637  7,790 9,375  16,130
Less. Operating Expenses (b)      3,174  2,927  3,438  3,383  3,655 4,000  3,934  4,847  5,338  8,515
Net Operating Income              1,743  2,149  1,980  2,526  2,391  2,600  2,702  2,943 4,037  7,615
Net Profit (c)                     1,069  1,503  1,023  1,152  1,274  1,169  1,397  2,172 2,539  4,250
Financial Ratios:
EBITDAtRev (Telkom network) (d)    61%   70%    62%   72%    61%   74%    59%   68%    65%    65%
Return on Average Equity (e)       15%   19%    22%    12%   24%    3%    23%    8%    19%    46%
Net Intemal Cash Generation as %Av.
Cap. Inv.                           55%   63%    88%   84%    95%   118%   90%   136%  228%   314%
Debt Service Coverage              4.70  4 30   4.20  4.80   3.40  3.70   3.40  2.90   6.81   2 90
Current Ratio                      1.00  1.10   1.00   0.90  1.10  1.30   1.00   1.95  2 69   0.73
Debt/ (Debt + Equity)              0.52  0 33   0.48   0.36  0.42  0.45   0.37  0.43   0.53   0 70
(a) Gross operating revenue from 1996 onwards includes minimum Telkom revenue from its existing network managed by
KSOs and revenue share paid by KSO based on the agreement.
(b) Operating expenses include depreciation for Telkom's existing network managed by KSO but do not include personnel
expenses for employees of KSO based on KSO agreements.
(c) Net profit includes initial investor payment on an after-tax basis.
(d) EBITDA = earnings before interest payment, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. Revenue from Telkom network includes
the minimum revenue from its network managed by KSOs.
(e) The rate of return would be higher if straight line depreciation method is used.
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions-
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
08/06/1994               4   TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          HS          HS
TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/10/1994               4   TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          HS          HS
TELECOM POLICY SPEC.
(1); FINANCIAL
ANALYST (1);
MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)
Supervision
08/07/1995                2  TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          HS          HS
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
02/09/1996                3  TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          HS          HS
TELECOM POLICY (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
10/26/1996               4   TELECOM ENGINEER (I);          HS          HS
FINANCIAL ANALUST (1);
TELECOM POLICY (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
04/10/1997                2  TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          HS          HS
TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1)
12/16/1997                4  TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          HS          HS
TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
COUNTRY OFFICER (1)
07/03/1998                3  TELECOM ENGINEER (1);          HS          HS
TELECOM POLICY SPEC. (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
12/19/1998                4  FINANCIAL ANALYST (2);         S           HS
TELECOM ENGINEER (1);
TELECOM POLICY SPCLST
(1)
12/20/1999                3  TELECOM POLICY SP. (1);        S            S
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
TELECOM ENGINEER (1)
02/10/2001                3  PR. TELECOM POLICY SP.          S           S
(1); PR. TELECOM ENGINEER
(1); SR. FINANCIAL
ANALYST (1)
10/29/2001                3  LEAD FINANCIAL ANALYST         S            S
(1); LEAD TELECOM SP. (1);
PR. TELECOM ENGINEER (1)
05/29/2002                3  MISSION LEADER (1);             S           S
-24-



CONSULTANT (1)
ICR
08/15/2002                   2    TELECOM ENGINEER                  S             S
(1); TELECOM POLICY
SPEC. (1)                    _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActualLatest Estimate,
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                 12                          40
Appraisal/Negotiation                      45                         140
Supervision                               150                         215
ICR                                         8                          35
Total                                     215                         665
-25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3 Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM ON O NA
3 Physical                            O H OSU*M O N O NA
3 Financial                           O H OSU*M O N O NA
Z Institutional Development           O H   O SU * M O N 0 NA
3 Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N * NA
Social
F PovertyReduction              OH    OSUOM ON        * NA
0 Gender                        O H OSUOM O N * NA
rO Other (Please specify)       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
F Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H   * SU O M  0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H   OSUOM O N O NA
- 26-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                           *HSOS OLU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS      O U    O HU
Ol Overall                                          O HS * S    O    U  0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       *HS OS       O   U  0 HU
O] Government implementation performance            O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of IBRD to Executive Directors
2. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
3. Project Aide Memoires
4. Project Supervision Reports(PSR)
5. All Back to Office Reports
6. Information Memoranda prepared by Telkom. Borrower's ICR dated October 2002
7. Telkom Audited Financial Statements (1997 - 2001)
- 28-












Repor No.:        25052
Type:    ICR



