Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3904-IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
             (Telecommunications Sector Modernization Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 11, 1995
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3904-IND
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has contracted from the Kreditanstalt
fur Weideraufbau (the KfW) a series of loans in an aggregate
amount equivalent to: (i) forty million one hundred seventy-one
thousand seventy Deutsche Marks (DM40,171,070) (the KfW Loans);
and (ii) seventy-one million six hundred and seventy-six
thousand two hundred forty-four dollars ($71,676,244) to assist
in financing Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in the agreements (the KfW Loan Agreements) entered
into between the Borrower and the KfW;
      (C)   by agreement dated April 14, 1994, (the Japan
EXIMBANK Loan Agreement), the Japan Export-Import Bank (the
Japan EXIMBANK) has agreed to make a loan (the Japan EXIMBANK
Page  2
Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to four billion five hundred seventy-six million two
hundred sixty-nine thousand nine hundred eighteen Yen
(?4,576,269,918) to assist in financing Part C of the Project,
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Japan EXIMBANK
Loan Agreement;
      (D)   the Borrower has contracted from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) a series of loans in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-nine billion
one hundred fifty-five million eight hundred thousand Yen
(?29,155,800,000) (the OECF) to assist in financing Part C of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the OECF
Loan Agreement;
      (E)   the Borrower has contracted from the Government of
the Republic of France (the French Government) a loan (the
French Government Loan) in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to three hundred sixty-three million six hundred
thirty-six thousand three hundred sixty-four French Francs
(FF363,636,364) to assist in financing Part C of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in the French Government
Loan;
      (F)   by agreement dated November 16, 1994, (the US
EXIMBANK Loan Agreement), the United States Export-Import Bank
(US EXIMBANK) has agreed to make a loan (the US EXIMBANK Loan)
to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000) to assist in financing
Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
the US EXIMBANK Loan Agreement;
      (G)   Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by
PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia (TELKOM) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to TELKOM the proceeds of the Loan as provided
in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
TELKOM;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."
Page  3
      (c)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from April 1 to March 31;
      (b)   "JOS" means a Joint Operation Scheme, a Build/Joint
Operate/Transfer cooperative operation entered into between
TELKOM and a JOS investor, as hereinafter defined, for the
provision of telecommunications services and the management of
existing and the new telecommunications network in the regions
of TELKOM pursuant to the terms of the JOS contracts, as
hereinafter defined;
      (c)   "JOS Investor" means any related joint-venture
company comprising of Indonesian investors and one or more
selected foreign public telephone operators, established and
operating under the laws of the Republic of Indonesia and to
which a license has been granted by MTPT;
      (d)   "JOS contract" means an agreement to be entered into
between TELKOM and a JOS Investor for the provision of
telephone facilities in any of the five territorial regions of
TELKOM;
      (e)   "MTPT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Tourism,
Posts and Telecommunications and any successor thereto;
      (f)   "Performance Indicators" means those physical and
financial indicators designed to measure TELKOM's performance
in implementing the physical components of its Investment
Program, as hereinafter defined and agreed among the Borrower,
TELKOM and the Bank pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to
the Project Agreement;
      (g)   "Policy Letter" and the acronym "PL" mean the letter
dated April 13, 1995, from the Borrower to the Bank describing
a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
achieve the modernization of the Borrower's telecommunications
sector;
      (h)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
      (i)   "PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia" and the acronym
"TELKOM" mean the limited liability company established and
operating pursuant to its Articles of Association dated
September 24, 1991, published in the State Gazette No. 5 dated
January 17, 1992, pursuant to the Borrower's legislation,
including the Borrower's Regulation No. 25 dated May 1, 1991;
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TELKOM pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
Page  4
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means
the loan provided to TELKOM under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
      (l)   "TELKOM's fiscal year" means the fiscal year of
TELKOM which runs from January 1 to December 31; and
      (m)   "TELKOM's Investment Program" means the Program of
investments to be undertaken by TELKOM during TELKOM's fiscal
years 1994-98, as the same may be revised  from time to time.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of three hundred twenty-five
million dollars ($325,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account
in Bank Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
Page  5
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund the Bank's investments; and loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise
                  than as provided in paragraph (a) of this
                  Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   carry out Part A of the Project, through MTPT,
                with due diligence and efficiency and in
                conformity with appropriate administrative and
                financial practices and shall provide, promptly
                as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                other resources required for such Part of the
                Project; and
          (ii)  cause TELKOM to perform all its obligations set
                forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or
                cause to be taken all action, including the
                provision of funds, facilities, services and
                other resources, necessary or appropriate to
                enable TELKOM to perform such obligations, and
Page  6
                shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                which would prevent or interfere with such
                performance.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower shall relend to TELKOM out of the proceeds
of the Loan the amounts allocated from time to time to
Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and TELKOM, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and
which shall include, inter alia, the following:
          (i)   TELKOM shall pay interest on the principal amount
                of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from time to time of the rate payable under
                Section 2.05 of this Agreement and an additional
                one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  TELKOM shall pay commitment charges at the rate
                payable under Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
         (iii)  TELKOM shall repay the principal amount of
                the Subsidiary Loan over 20 years including
                five years grace; and
          (iv)  the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
                repaid by TELKOM shall be the equivalent in
                dollars (determined as of the respective dates of
                repayment) of the amounts withdrawn from the Loan
                Account under said Categories (1) and (2).
    (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. In order to assist MTPT in carrying out Part
A of the Project:
    (a)   The Borrower shall procure consultants' services under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).  For complex,
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms
acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
    (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection proce-dures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
          (i)   contracts for the employment of consulting firms
                estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand
                dollars ($100,000) equivalent each; or
          (ii)  contracts for the employment of individual
                consultants estimated to cost less than fifty
                thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each.
Page  7
                However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
                shall not apply to:
                (A)   the terms of reference for such contracts;
                (B)   single-source selection of consulting firms;
                (C)   assignments of a critical nature, as rea-
                      sonably determined by the Bank;
                (D)   amendments to contracts for the employment
                      of consulting firms raising the contract
                      value to one hundred thousand dollars
                      ($100,000) equivalent or above; or
                (E)   amendments to contracts for the employment
                      of individual consultants raising the
                      contract value to fifty thousand dollars
                      ($50,000) equivalent or above.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried out by
TELKOM pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out Part A of the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each Fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
                ciples consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, commencing on October 30,
                1996, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Page  8
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    Section 4.02.  Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement dated July
8, 1992 entered into between the Borrower and the Bank for
purposes of Loan No. 3482-IND (Fourth Telecommunications
Project) is hereby amended by deleting the phrase ",including
annual reviews and adjustments of TELKOM's tariffs, if any,".
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   TELKOM shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that TELKOM will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The Articles of Association of TELKOM of September 24,
1991 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
TELKOM to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of TELKOM or for the suspension of its
operations.
    (e)   TELKOM  shall have become unable to pay its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by TELKOM or by others whereby any of the property of TELKOM
shall or may be distributed amongst its creditors.
    (f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
                the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                proceeds of the KfW Loan, the Japan Exim Bank
                Loan, the OECF Loan, the French Government Loan
                and the US EXIMBANK Loan made to the Borrower for
                the financing of Part C the Project shall have
                been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
                or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                Agreements providing therefor.
          (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                apply if the Borrower established to the
                satisfaction of the Bank that:
                (A)   such suspension, cancellation or termina-
                      tion is not caused by the failure of the
Page  9
                      Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                      under the agreement concerned; and
                (B)   adequate funds for Part C of the Project are
                      available to the Borrower from other sources
                      on terms and conditions consistent with the
                      obligations of the Borrower under this
                      Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower;
    (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)   any of the events in paragraph (f) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of such Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and TELKOM.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
    (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by TELKOM, and is legally binding upon TELKOM in
accordance with its terms; and
    (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and TELKOM and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and TELKOM in accordance with
its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P.O. Box 139
          Jakarta 10710
Page  10
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                Telex:
                FINMINISTRY                   45799 DJMLN-IA,
                Jakarta                       44319 DEPKEU-IA
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
                                               64l45 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                            By /s/ Budiman Darmosutanto
                                                  Authorized Representative
                            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                            By /s/ Marianne Haug
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated                % of
                              (Expressed in            Expenditures
    Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
1. Goods, works and            237,000,000            100% of
   services for                                       foreign
   external line plant                                expenditures
   under Part C.1
   of the Project
2. Telecommunications           70,000,000            100% of
    materials, submarine                              foreign
    cable systems and                                 expenditures
    software (excluding
Page  11
    switching equipment)
3. Consultants' Services        5,000,000             100%
   for MTPT
4. Training for MTPT            2,000,000             100%
5. Unallocated                 11,000,000
                              컴컴컴컴컴
    TOTAL                     325,000,000
                              ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "Goods, works and services for external line
plant under Part C.1 of the Project"  means the supply,
delivery, installation and commissioning of local
telecommunications telephone network, pulse code modulation
cable, optical fiber cable, trans-mission equipment (inclusive
of microwave equipment), customer access network and associated
infrastructure.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower, for:
    (a)   training under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equiva-
lent;
    (b)   the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000; and
    (c)   the employment of individual consultants, estimated to
cost less than $50,000.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the implementation of the long-term sector development program
for its telecommunications sector aimed at enhancing its
international competitiveness through:
    (a)   the formulation and implementation of a sectoral legal
and regulatory framework; and
    (b)   the modernization of the Borrower's telecommunications
services and network.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening the Policy and Institutional Building
          Capacities of MTPT
Page  12
1.  Development of the Borrower's legal and regulatory framework
to further promote efficient private sector participation in
the telecommunications sector.
2.  Strengthening MTPT's capacity to oversee the new regulatory
framework through the provision of training for MTPT staff in
regulatory management techniques.
3.  Review of the management and allocation of the radio
frequency spectrum to promote the efficient use of said
spectrum and of modern technologies.
4.  Development of a plan for the provision of rural telephone
services on a commercial basis.
Part B:   Strengthening the Managerial and Implementation Capacities
          of TELKOM
1.  Strengthening the Project implementation, marketing,
customer services and managerial capacities of TELKOM through
the provision of specialized marketing and managerial services.
2.  Improving TELKOM's managerial capabilities through the
implementation of its ongoing restructuring program.
Part C:   Improving the Telecommunications Services and Network
1.  Installation of local and inter-exchange telecommunication
networks aimed at:
    (a)   connecting about one million of new telephone lines;
and
    (b)   improving the capacity of switching facilities in the
Borrower's cities of Jakarta and Surabaya.
2.  Installation of a fiber optic back-bone system between the
cities of Jakarta and Surabaya.
3.  Upgrading the telecommunication transmission facilities in
the Borrower's  provinces of Kalimantan and Sulawesi through
the installation of submarine optical fiber cable transmission
systems.
4.  Strengthening TELKOM's business processing capacities
through the improvement of its information systems.
                     *          *          *         *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                   (Expressed in dollars)
March 1, 2001                                         6,250,000
September 1, 2001                                     6,470,000
March 1, 2002                                         6,700,000
September 1, 2002                                     6,940,000
March 1, 2003                                         7,185,000
September 1, 2003                                     7,440,000
March 1, 2004                                         7,700,000
September 1, 2004                                     7,975,000
March 1, 2005                                         8,260,000
September 1, 2005                                     8,550,000
March 1, 2006                                         8,855,000
September 1, 2006                                     9,165,000
March 1, 2007                                         9,490,000
Page  13
September 1, 2007                                     9,830,000
March 1, 2008                                        10,175,000
September 1, 2008                                    10,540,000
March 1, 2009                                        10,910,000
September 1, 2009                                    11,300,000
March 1, 2010                                        11,700,000
September 1, 2010                                    12,115,000
March 1, 2011                                        12,545,000
September 1, 2011                                    12,990,000
March 1, 2012                                        13,450,000
September 1, 2012                                    13,925,000
March 1, 2013                                        14,420,000
September 1, 2013                                    14,930,000
March 1, 2014                                        15,460,000
September 1, 2014                                    16,005,000
March 1, 2015                                        16,575,000
September 1, 2015                                    17,150,000
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                        The interest rate (expressed
                                        as a percentage per annum) applic-
                                         able to the Loan on the day
                                        of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (3) and
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Page  14
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $800,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                aid documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Page  15
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstand-ing special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Parts A of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Part A of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)   was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
                eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
                Schedule; or
          (ii)  was not justified by the evidence furnished to
                the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
                notice from the Bank:
                (A)   provide such additional evidence as the Bank
                      may request; or
                (B)   deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
                      Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
                      an amount equal to the amount of such                      
payment or the portion thereof not so
                      eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
                      otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
                      Bank into the Special Account shall be made
                      until the Borrower has provided such
                      evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
                      the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
Page  16
1.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   by  not later than January 31, 1996 cause TELKOM to
finalize and sign the JOS contracts, paying due regard to the
Bank's comments on the draft contractual terms submitted to the
Bank for its review; and
    (b)   promptly thereafter furnish such contracts to the Bank.
2.  The Borrower shall  prior to carrying out the full or
partial
divestiture of TELKOM or the sale of TELKOM shares in major
joint-venture companies providing basic telecommunications
services:
    (a)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower and TELKOM on such proposed divestiture
or sale; and
    (b)   thereafter, carry out said divestiture or sale, paying
due regard to the Bank's comments and recommendations, if any.
3.  The Borrower shall throughout Project implementation:
    (a)   prior to approving revisions to principal tariffs for
basic telecommunications services, afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on such
proposed revisions; and
    (b)   thereafter, approve such revisions paying due regard to
the Bank's comments and recommendations, if any.
4.  The Borrower shall by:
    (a)   not later than June 30, 1996, select and employ quali-
fied consultants, in accordance with contractual terms
acceptable to the Bank, to assist the Borrower in monitoring
and evaluating the technical and financial performance of
TELKOM and the JOS operations under the JOS contracts; and
    (b)   not later than June 30, in each year commencing on June
30, 1997, furnish to the Bank for its review and comment, the
report prepared by the consultants referred to in paragraph (a)
of this Section.
5.  The Borrower shall:
    (a)   by not later than November 30, 1995, and thereafter, by
November 30, of each subsequent year until completion of the
Project, carry out progress reviews to include, inter alia, the
following:
          (i)   an assessment of the Borrower's telecommunica-
                tions sector development program including the
                role of the private sector in said program,
                pursuant to the terms of the PL;
          (ii)  an evaluation of the performance of TELKOM in
                accordance with the Performance Indicators;
         (iii)  an assessment of the business environment
                for private participation in the Borrower's
                telecommunications sector including
                progress achieved in the development of the
                legal and regulatory framework referred to
                under Part A.1 of the Project; and
          (iv)  a review of TELKOM's Investment Program aimed at:
                (A)   ensuring its consistency with the Borrower's
                      telecommunications sector development
Page  17
                      program and the provisions of the PL;
                (B)   achieving a balanced development of the
                      telecommunications sector within the
                      Borrower's territorial regions; and
                (C)   ensuring the implementation of TELKOM's
                      plans to increase self-financing from its
                      operations; and
    (b)   promptly after completing said annual reviews, carry
out those recommendations arising out of said reviews, as
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
