LOAN NUMBER 3904-IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Telecommunications Sector Modernization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
PT. TELEKOMUNIKASI INDONESIA
Dated    CA              , 1995


﻿LOAN NMER 3904-IND
PROJECT AGREEENT
AGREEMENT, dated          , 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PT. TELEKOMUNIKASI
INDONESIA (TELKOM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three hundred twenty five million dollars
($325,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that TELKOM agrees to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TELKOM, a portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to TELKOM
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS TELKOM, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TELKOM declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts B and C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental
and telecommunications practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the.Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and TELKOM shall otherwise
agree, TELKOM shall carry out Parts B and C of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) TELKOM shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Parts B and C of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, TELKOM shall:
(i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Bank and TELKOM, a plan for the
future operation of the Project;
(ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with TELKOM on said plan; and
(iii) thereafter,   carry  out  said  plan   with  due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
appropriate practices, taking into account the
Bank's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. TELKOM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, TELKOM shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. TELKOM shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of implementation of Parts B and C of the Project, the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by TELKOM of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TELKOM
Section 3.01. TELKOM shall carry on its operations, including
the -JOS operations, and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, environmental and telecommunications
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. TELKOM shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial,
environmental and telecommunications practices.
Section 3.03. TELKOM shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or, make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TELKOM shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) TELKOM shall:
(i)    have  the   records,  accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each of
TELKOM fiscal years audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case:
(A) not later than four months after the end of
each   such   year,   unaudited  corporate
accounts; and
(B) not later than six months after the end
of each such year, audited corporate
accounts:
(1) certified   copies  of  its  financial
statements for such year as so audited;
and
(2) the   report of such   audit by   said
auditors of such scope and in such
detail   as  the   Bank   shall  have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish  to  the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-4-
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
TELKOM shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of TELKOM shows that the projected net
revenues of TELKOM for each fiscal year during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt
service requirements of TELKOM in such year on all debt of TELKOM
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TELKOM shall
produce, for each of its fiscal years, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 50S of the annual average of TELKOM's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year and the next following fiscal year.
(c) Before November 15 in each of its fiscal years, commenc-
ing on November 15, 1995, TELKOM shall, on the basis of forecasts
prepared by TELKOM and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) in respect of
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to
the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
(d) If any such review shows that TELKOM would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (b) for TELKOM's fiscal years
covered by such review, TELKOM shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
Section 4.03. For the purposes of Section 4.02:
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of TELKOM maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(i)    under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the date
of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
(ii)   under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into.
(c) The term "net revenues of TELKOM" means gross revenues of
TELKOM from all sources, adjusted to take account of TELKOM's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the twelve-month period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating expenses of TELKOM including
expenses accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or
payments in lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation of
assets and interest and other charges on debt.


﻿(d) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of,
and interest and other charges on, debt.
(e) The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
by TELKOM in its fiscal in which the debt in question is to be
incurred, which both the Bank and TELKOM accept as reasonable and as
to which the Bank has notified TELKOM of its acceptability, provided
that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of
TELKOM.
(f) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(i)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations,  consumer  deposits   and  consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-
operating income and any reduction in working
capital other than cash, plus cash surpluses from
previous years; and
(ii)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance
(excluding provision for depreciation and other
non-cash   operating  charges),   debt  service
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus, increase in working
capital other than cash and other cash outflows
other than capital expenditures.
(g) The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(i)   revenues from al    sources other   than  those
related to operations; and
(ii)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
(i) above.
(h) The term "working capital other than cash" means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and current
liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(i) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets
other than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts receiv-
able, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses
properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal
year.


﻿-6-
(j) The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
which will become due and payable or could under circumstances then
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements,
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(k) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of,
and interest and other charges on, debt.
(1) The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction,
related to operations.
(m) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing official rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on
the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. Section 4.03 of the Project Agx.eement dated July
8, 1992 entered into between the Bank and PT. Telekomunikasi
Indonesia for purposes of Loan No. 3482-IND (Fourth Telecommunica-
tions Project) is hereby amended:
(a) by deleting the phrase "(including, but not limited to,
furnishing to the Borrower proposed adjustments of the structure or
levels of its tariffs)" in Section 4.03(c); and
(b) by replacing "forty percent (40%)" and "40%" in Sections
4.03(a) and (c) with "fifty percent (50%)" and "50%", respectively.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of TELKOM thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify TELKOM thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party' s address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For TELKOM:
PT. Telekomunikasi Indonesia
Jalan Cisanggarung #2
Bandung 40115
Republic of Indonesia
Telex:
62-22-73-28220 IA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TELKOM may be taken or executed by the
President Director, Chief Executive Officer of TELKOM or such other
person or persons as TELKOM shall designate in writing, and TELKOM
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
egional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
PT. TELEKOMUNIKASI INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:    International Competitive Bidding
1.    Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a) Two-stage Bidding Procedure
The bidding procedure for goods and works under Categories (1)
and (2) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall be carried out in
two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the
Guidelines.
(b) Preference for Domestic Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guide-
lines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower.
(c) Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000
equivalent or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review
board set forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred
to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works


﻿-10 -
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of
said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II amployment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consul-
tant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such con-
tracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consul-
tants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,          'AO
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b) contracts for the employment of individuals consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(i)   the terms of reference for such contracts;
(ii)   single-source selection of consulting firms;
(iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank;
(iv)  amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or
(v)   amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    TELKOM shall:
(a) by not later than January 31, 1996 finalize and sign the
JOS contracts, paying due regard to the Bank's comments on the draft
contractual terms submitted to the Bank for its review; and
(b) promptly thereafter furnish such contracts to the Bank.
2.    TELKOM shall: (a) take all such action as shall be necessary
to meet the Performance Indicators for each of TELKOM's fiscal years
as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(b) by not later than November 15 of each year, commencing on
November 15, 1995, prepare a revised set of Performance Indicators
to be met during the next two TELKOM's fiscal years and furnish said
Indicators to the Borrower and the Bank to seek their respective
agreement; and
(c) within six months of the end of each of TELKOM's fiscal
years until the completion of the Project, prepare and submit to the
Borrower and the Bank, for their review, a progress implementation
report, indicating the actions taken by TELKOM to meet such
Indicators.
3.    For the purposes of carrying out Parts B and C of the Project,
TELKOM, shall, throughout Project Implementation, maintain the
Project Implementation Unit (PROTEL V) established within TELKOM
headed by a qualified and experienced officer, and assigned at all
times, with such power, responsibilities, funds, staffing, facili-
ties and other resources as shall be required to undertake its
responsibilities under the Project.
S


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


