Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19078
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(CR. 1970-TZ)
March 24, 1999
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Dec.-88 US$ I =   T Sh 122
Dec.-89 US$ 1  =   TSh 178
Dec.-90 USS 1  =   TSh 196
Dec.-91 US$ I =   T Sh 233
Dec.-97 US$ 1  =   T Sh 625
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Tanzania
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF         African Development Fund
ARF         Agricultural Research Fund
COR         Client Oriented Research
DRD         Directorate of Research and Development (from mid-1998)
DRT         Department of Research and Training (until mid-1998)
FSR         Farming Systems Research
GoT         Government of Tanzania
IARC        International Agricultural Research Centre
IDA         International Development Association
MAC         Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives
MTR         Mid-Term Review
NALRM       National Agricultural and Livestock Research Master Plan
NALRP       National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project
NARC        National Agricultural Research Council
NARS        National Agricultural Research System
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SPAAR       Special Programme for African Agricultural Research
SUA         Sokoine University of Agriculture
TAJAS       Tanzanian Journal for Agricultural Sciences
TALIRO      Tanzania Livestock Research Organisation
TARD        Tanzanian Agricultural Research Data Base
TARO        Tanzania Agricultural Research Organisation
TARP II    Tanzania Agricultural Research Project II
TPRI        Tanzania Pesticides Research Institute
UAC         Uyole Agricultural Centre
ZARF        Zonal Agricultural Research Funds
ZTC         Zonal Technical Committee
Vice President:          Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director:        Mr. James W. Adams
Sector Manager:          Ms. Sushma Ganguly
Task Manager:            Mr. Satish Kumar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit No. 1970-TZ)
Contents
Preface ....................................................................i
Evaluation Summary .................................................................... ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .....................................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ..............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT  OF OBJECTIVES .....................................................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............................................6
D. PROJECT  SUSTAINABILrTY  ........................................................... ..........8
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE  ............................                       .........................................9
F. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE .....................................................................                 9
G. ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ....................................................................                 10
H. FUTURE  OPERATIONS ....................................................................                    10
1. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................                  10
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES ....................................................................                          13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................................           13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................................   14
Table 3: Project Timetable ..................................................................... 15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........... 15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................... 16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ........................................................ 17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ....................................................................      17
Table 8A: Project Costs .....................................................................18
Table 8B: Project Financing ....................................................................              19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ....................................................................   19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................................  20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................. 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................................... 21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................................  22
APPENDICES
A.              Aide Memoire
B.              Borrowers Contribution to the ICR
C.              Supplemental Information
D.              Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit No. 1970-TZ)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Agricultural and
Livestock Research Project (NALRP) in Tanzania for which Credit 1970-TZ in the amount of SDR
6.0 million (US$8.3 million equivalent) was approved by the International Development Association
(IDA) on December 13, 1988. The Credit became effective on August 2, 1989. The project was co-
financed, under parallel funding arrangements, by the African Development Fund (ADF) for which a
loan of US$8.2 million was approved. Grants were also provided by the Kingdom of the Netherlands
(US$2.7 million), the United Kingdom (US$2.85 million) and the Federal Republic of Germany (US
$1.65 million).
A Mid-Term Review was to be undertaken by October 31, 1991 but due to delays in
project start-up, it was postponed until April 1993. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997,
nine months after the original Closing Date of March 31, 1997. The ADF Loan is still open and due
to close on June 30, 1999, by which time it is anticipated to be fully disbursed. The bilateral grants
have all closed and were fully disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program, on behalf
of the Africa Rural Development Operations Group 1 (AFTRI) of the World Bank (WB). The report
is based on a review of the project files and supervision reports, on discussions with WB staff and on
the findings of an ICR mission that visited Tanzania from November 14 to December 4, 1998. The
mission' visited the eastern and northern research zones and  Sokoine University of Agriculture
(SUA) and held discussions with Govemment of Tanzania (GoT) staff associated with the project,
particularly staff of the Directorate of Research and Development (DRD)2 and of the extension
services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives (MAC). The borrower prepared its own
assessment of the project performance which was issued in a report dated April 1998. A copy of the
Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission and of the Govemment's Completion Report are attached as
Appendices A and B respectively.
This ICR was prepared at a time when the follow-up Tanzania Agricultural Research
Project II (TARP 1I) was already effective and being implemented. Many of the issues reported in
this ICR are being addressed under the follow-up project; some of the recommendations made could
usefully be taken into account in ongoing implementation.
Guy Evers (Mission Leader), Martin Maurer (Econonlist-APO) and Michael Macklin (Agricultural Services
Consultant)
2 The Department of Research and Training (DRT) was created in 1989. In 1998 the training function was
separated and DRT re-named the Directorate of Research and Development (DRD).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit No. 1970-TZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       From independence through the late 1970s World Bank lending to the agricultural sector
of Tanzania was channelled through 21 agricultural and integrated rural development projects,
constituting about 30% of the overall lending program. The emphasis of previous assistance was on
crop and livestock specific projects implemented through parastatal institutions and regional
development authorities. Despite this investment, agricultural production was falling, indicating that
the fundamental problems facing agriculture were of a sectoral nature. The National Agricultural and
Livestock Research Project (NALRP) was identified around 1985 after a hiatus in agricultural lending
and in an environment of continuing macro-economic adjustment. At the beginning of the project,
the national agricultural research assets comprised a substantial scientific manpower and station
infrastructure which were fragmented and largely unproductive. NALRP was approved by IDA on
December 13, 1988 and closed on December 31, 1997, after disbursing fully the Credit.
Project Objectives
2.        The main project objective was to implement the first stage of a long-term support
program for developing Tanzania's agricultural research system. The project was intended to lay the
foundation for establishing an effective national research system, to be implemented in two phases.
The first phase was to focus on institutional re-structuring and development, staff training,
strengthening planning and management capacity, preparation of a research master plan,
strengthening and rehabilitating physical infrastructure and limited support for research in three
specific programs. The second phase was to continue the institutional strengthening process and
establish an Agricultural Research Fund to provide funding to additional research programs. The
project was viewed as a precursor to a more investment-oriented second stage once the basic
institutional and human capacity is developed.
3.        Project design was appropriate and based on a good diagnosis of critical issues facing
the NARS at the time of appraisal. Project objectives were correctly focused on fundamental needs
for institutional consolidation and restructuring, staff training, and improved research planning and
management. It was recognised that the full achievement of project objectives would be a long-term
process requiring several investment phases, and that the first phase should basically strengthen
research institutions and physical infrastructure



- ii -
Implementation Experience and Results
Achievement of Objectives
4.        Project start-up and implementation was slow during the initial years. The Credit
disbursement lag was 74% at the time of the Mid-Term Review (MTR). Following a strengthening of
project management and re-allocation of funds after the MTR, implementation improved
significantly. Overall, the project achieved its core objectives of reorganising and developing a more
efficiently managed NARS and in laying a good foundation for client oriented research in the future.
Significant improvements in generation and adoption of demand driven technologies have, however,
still to be realised.
5.        The project was successful in completing a major restructuring exercise in terms of the
dissolution of three of the four agricultural research parastatals and their integration within the
Department of Research and Training (DRT) of MAC. A. consolidated research structure, comprising
seven research zones and a national headquarters, was established. The planned downsizing of the
system has been partially completed with 15 of the 50 original stations closed or being handed over,
and another 13 downgraded to field stations or trial sites. Support staff have been reduced by 25%,
whilst the number of scientists has remained constant, around 350.
6.        A comprehensive National Agricultural and Livestock Master Plan (NALRM) was
funded by collaborating donors under the Special Program for African Agricultural Research
(SPAAR). The NALRM defined a national agricultural and livestock research program, identifying
ranked commodity priorities for the short, medium, and long terms, and specifying staff and physical
resource requirements. Launched in 1992, NALRM was instrumental in initiating better resource
allocations on a prioritised basis and in developing a framiework for demand driven zonal research.
Building on this, DRT subsequently undertook a further research prioritisation exercise at zonal level,
injecting a greater degree of client involvement. Farming of Systems Research (FSR) and Client
Oriented Research (COR) methodologies are taking root within the NARS and are being integrated
into all commodity research programs. This represents a significant step towards demand driven
agricultural research.
7.        The capacity building component was largely successful. Staff development objectives
were achieved through a well directed and executed program that provided staff appropriate short-
and long-term training especially in management and research methodologies. The procurement of
vehicles and equipment and civil works improved capacity at selected research stations, even though
the civil works program only completed about half of intended construction.
8.        An Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) was established to finance collaborative and
contract research with the intention that it would eventually attract incremental research funding from
other sources, developing into a self sustaining "consolidated funding mechanism". This did not
occur and ARF performance was not fully satisfactoiy. Implementation was delayed, review
procedures proved time consuming, and research output was limited. Despite these shortcomings, the
ARF succeeded in exposing DRT scientists to collaborative research, especially with Sokoine
University of Agriculture. It also served as a useful scientist-training tool by demanding high quality
research proposals from applicants. It served as a useful pilot activity and the lessons learned from it
were applied under the phase 2 project namely the Tanzania Agricultural Research Project (TARP II)
to improve ARF management and to launch Zonal AgricuLtural Research Funds.



- iii -
9.        Extension-Research linkages improved during the project with measures such as joint
monthly workshops; annual zonal research-extension workshops for joint research and extension
program planning; on-farm demonstrations/trials; farmer field days; activities under the FSR and
establishment of farmer research clubs in one of the zones. These were helped by allocations made
under the extension projects (particularly NAEP II) for supporting researcher participation in several
field activities, e.g., farmer days, field days, demonstrations and on-farm trials.
Project Cost and Financing
10.       Total project costs were estimated at US$25.3 mnillion, which was largely in line with the
actual expenditure of about US$26.4 million'. IDA contributed US$8.6 million; ADF, US$8.2
million; the Netherlands, US$3.1 million; the United Kingdom, US$2.1 million; Germany, US$1.7
million; and GoT, US$2.8 million. Government recurrent budgets to research operations were to
have been maintained in real terms at the pre-proj ect 1987/89 level. GoT failed to comply with this
requirement as inadequate provision of non-salary operating funds prevailed throughout the project.
However, the chronic operating fund crisis was mitigated by project management actions that
included stations' revenue retention, cesses on eight industrial crops (coffee, tea, cotton, cashew,
barley, sugarcane, tobacco and sisal), contract research and collaboration with international
institutions. These initiatives are expected to continue under TARP II which would further reduce
research dependence on Government budget.
Project Sustainability
11.       NALRP was intended to be a first phase of a long-term process of support to agricultural
research, and focussed on institutional strengthening and provision of research infrastructure. The
main structural and institutional reforms have been internalised with a strong degree of local
ownership. Adequate institutional arrangements are therefore in place (further improved under the
successor project TARP U) to ensure institutional sustainability. As anticipated in the SAR, short- to
medium-term project sustainability will be assured largely by continued IDA support under TARP H ,
through anticipated support from several bi-lateral donors and from extra-budgetary resources raised
from revenue retention, cesses and industry contributions. The long-term financial sustainability of
the NARS will, to a large degree, depend upon: the growth of secure cess funding arrangements;
increased collaborative and contract work; and through increased cost recovery on services, and is
considered likely.
12.       The major reasons for unsatisfactory performance until project mid-term were: weak
proj ect management; inadequate provision of research operating costs; and poor terms of services
resulting in low staff morale. Useful guidance through Bank supervision and a willingness to try new
ways of fundraising on the part of Government were instrumental in turning the project round after
1993. The main factors influencing this change were: a strengthening of project management and
improved remuneration of key managers; allocation of IDA funds for stations rehabilitation in
accordance with NALRM recommendations; agreements with agro-industries to fund commercial
crop research through cesses; agreement by Treasury to establish revenue retention funds at research
stations; and, eventually, improved flow of funds from ADF.
l Assuming full disbursement of ADF loan which is due to be closed in June 1999.



- iv -
Bank and Borrower Performance
13.       Bank performance was considered satisfactory. Appraisal was well done and design did
not shy away from addressing difficult issues directly. Supervision input was intense and especially
productive at MTR and in the latter years. Borrower performance was mixed, initially poor but
eventually good as management improved and innovative! decisions began to take hold.
Summary of Findings
14.       The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory as it achieved its primary
objectives of structural consolidation and institutional reform. A new de-centralised zonal structure
has been adopted and a more client oriented research approach internalised. The SAR did not attempt
to quantify the expected project impact and an economic rate of return was not calculated. During
project implementation several new technologies were generated, some of which were reportedly
widely adopted by farmers. The DRD has reported the following on release of varieties and adoption
rates in the surveyed areas. Important crop varieties developed and released include four in wheat,
ten in maize, four in beans, three in barley, six clones of highly resistant coffee and 13 vegetable
varieties. Dual-purpose Mpwapwa breed of cattle continued to be introduced in Dodoma region.
Control techniques for trypanosomiasis were further improved and introduced in Unguja region of
Zanzibar where the incidence of disease reduced from 25.5 % to zero percent. Released wheat
varieties are adopted by 80% of the large-scale farmers anld 25-30% of the small-scale farmers; maize
varieties are being used by about 40% of the farmers; regarding beans 60% farmers in 6 surveyed
districts had adopted Lyamungu 85 and 90 varieties. I'he research also isolated cause of "patchy
stunting" disease in wheat which was a major production constraint for 23 years.  The
recommendations on application of fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides have also received substantial
adoption. Technology generation was, however, biased in favour of crop breeding and variety
releases. Only a few technologies were released that address crop and livestock management issues.
The improved capacity of DRT was also reflected in increased collaboration with IARCs and regional
research and development networks.
Future Operations
15.       Many of the issues reported in this ICR are being addressed under TARP II including
steps to further decentralise research to zones and significantly empower farmers through
establishment of Zonal Executive Committees, Zonal Agricultural Research Funds, Client Oriented
Research and by stipulating that 50% of resources would be expended on-farm research. Suggestions
are made in this report, which could usefully be taken into account in on-going implementation, in
order to: increase flexibility in adjusting skill-mix of staff establishment to current and future needs;
maintain strong inter-zonal co-ordination to avoid duplication and to drive synergies; continue NARS
downsizing and rationalisation; improve cost recovery on research services and operations; secure
reliable cess contribution from industry; review the mandate of the national ARF as new Zonal
Agricultural Research Funds are developed; mitigate low staff morale issues; and better integrate
socio-economic and marketing inputs in COR to improve the relevance and adoption of the research
product.



Key Lessons Learned
16.       Key lessons learned are as follows:
With its new "development" content, DRD may develop strategies for a broader
R&D function. The new "development" function needs to be clearly defined and
explained to DRD staff. It is also important that DRD gives increasing emphasis
to socio-economic and marketing issues in the final development of its product,
and to forging stronger links with all stakeholders, including farmers, NGOs,
private sector and others.
Though COR has been formally intemalised by DRD, its approaches are still to be
fully integrated in commodity and cross-cutting programs and there is need for
further training and support in this area.
Livestock research, especially small-stock, is still under-represented in some
zones and deserves strengthening as this sub-sector can have significant impact on
national priorities for improving nutritional standards and in poverty alleviation.
NALRP has demonstrated that chronic financial constraints can generate
improved and innovative management approaches to mitigate funding problems.
In the case of NALRP, the financial crisis became so severe that GoT was driven
to adopt flexible financial arrangements enabling scientists to access non-
government funding sources. After a very difficult period, a healthier attitude has
emerged such that the research stations regard raising resources outside the budget
as an important management function. This offers hope that a more cost-effective
and sustainable NARS can develop.
Overall impact of technical assistance (funded mainly by bilateral donors and
amounting to some 20% of total project cost) does not appear commensurate with
this level of investment. Expenditures on TA should be very selective and their
quality and utility carefully monitored.
Decentralisation of management and administration to the seven agro-ecological
zones is strongly supported; but because the zones are far from homogenous and
similar agro-ecological situations are shared, imaginative inter-zonal coordination
would be needed which helps avoid duplication and derive synergies but does not
dilute stakeholder control of zonal research agenda.
Rationalisation and consolidation of the NARS has resulted in a significant
reduction in the number of research institutes, centres and stations, and a cut in
support staff. This must however be regarded as a dynarnic process rather than a
one-off project activity and DRD may require further structural adjustment to
improve efficiency and effectiveness as conditions change.
As far as practicable a statutory framework should be established for cess-funded
commodity research. Options to secure levy or cess funding for food crop and



- vi -
livestock research should also be investigated through the food processing and
marketing industries.
Retention of competent and motivated management within DRD is essential for
NARS effectiveness. Consideration may be given to including a management
overhead element in DRD cost recovery operations to finance performance
supplements for key researchers and research managers.
The mandate of the National ARF will require review in the light of lessons
learned from the Zonal Agricultural Research Funds (ZARF) established under
TARP 1I. The national ARF could concentrate on researchable problems of a
cross-zonal nature.
The research-extension-farmer linkages improved overtime and were helped by
allocations made in the extension projects (particularly NAEP II) for supporting
researcher participation in several field activities.  With the transfer of
responsibility for implementation of the extension program to the district councils
and reorganization of the regional administration there is need to review
extension-research linkage mechanism to respond to the above changes.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit No. 1970-TZ)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.       The National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project (NALRP) was appraised after
a period of curtailed International Development Association (IDA) lending to the agricultural sector
and at a time of macro-economic reform. The National Agricultural Research System (NARS) was in
a run-down state and unproductive. The main project objective was to implement the first stage of a
long-term program of support to agricultural research in Tanzania. The project was intended to lay the
foundation for establishing an effective research system that could effectively contribute to the
sustainable generation of technologies, food security, improved national nutritional standards and the
restoration of agricultural exports to earlier levels. To achieve this, the project was to provide
financial and technical assistance to support:
(a)  Consolidation and downsizing of existing services to establish a new organisational
structure for the national agricultural and livestock research system (NARS) within
the Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives ( MAC);
(b)  Preparation of a National Agricultural and Livestock Research Master Plan
(NALRM) to identify specific research activities ranked in order of priority and
define the human, physical and financial resources required;
(c)  Training of research staff to meet needs for research management and methodology
and to support NALRM priority research activities;
(d)  Provision of vehicles, equipment and civil works to meet immediate research
needs;
(e)  Funding of cotton, root and tuber and farming systems priority research programs
which had been identified and prepared before proj ect approval; and
(f)  Provision of unallocated research funds and establishment of an Agricultural
Research Fund (ARF) for financing the crop and livestock research programs for
which priorities would be established in the proposed NALRM.
The project was to have two main implementation phases. The first phase was to focus on
institutional development and rehabilitation of research infrastructure with limited support to the three
research programs. In the second phase institutional and infrastructure development would continue,
an ARF would be established to support research in terms of the priorities established in the NALRM.



- 2 -
2.        Project design was appropriate and based on a good diagnosis of critical issues facing the
NARS at the time of project appraisal. Project objectives were correctly focused on fundamental
needs for institutional consolidation and restructuring, staff training, and improved research planning
and management. Institutional reform objectives were ambitious and it was realistically recognised
that their full achievement would be a long-term process requiring several investment phases. The
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) anticipated that the proj ect would result in major improvements in the
organisation and management of the NARS, leading to more efficient use of limited resources. In
addition the project would enhance the quality of experimnental work, sharpening the focus on farmers
problems through improved research-extension-farmer linkages. There were no major diversions
from principal objectives during implementation but several critical changes in project organisation
and management and fund allocations were made.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
3.        Overview. Despite implementation delays and limited progress in the first four years,
the project largely achieved its core objective of reorganising and developing a more efficiently
managed NARS and in laying a good foundation for more effective client oriented research in the
future. Significant improvements, however, in the generation and adoption of demand-driven
technologies which would contribute to achieving the policy objectives of improving food security,
nutritional standards and the restoration of agricultural exports have still to be realised.
4.        Organisation and Management. Major restructuring in terms of the dissolution of three
of the four agricultural research parastatals and their integration within the Department of Research
and Training (DRT) of MAC was largely completed during 1989/90. However, staff re-deployment
and re-appointments took longer than anticipated, creating uncertainty and exacerbating the already
low staff morale. A consolidated research structure, comiprising seven research zone4 and a national
headquarters in Dar Es Salaam, was established following recommendations of the NALRM. The
planned downsizing of the system has been partial and is still ongoing. Out of the original 50
research stations, 23 are retained as priority DRT research stations. 13 others have been downgraded
and retained as field stations or trial sites and the process of closing or handing over the remaining 15
is underway (see Table 1, Appendix C). Support staff numbers have been reduced by 25%, whilst the
number of scientists has remained constant (i.e., some 350), giving a scientist to support staff ratio of
1 to 6.5.
5.        Following the establishment of DRT, the project was to support the formation of
financial, planning and administrative units at headquarters. This has been achieved and accounting,
administrative and project management services are in place and performing satisfactorily.
Procedures for the development of annual work plans and budgets were established, and subsequent
annual plans and budgets have been regularly submitted to IDA for review.
6.        As planned, a National Agricultural Research Council (NARC) was established to be the
principal advisory body on agricultural and livestock research to MAC. Attempts to provide the
Council with statutory powers were not realised and, though the Council did function, there is little
evidence that it has had significant impact on the development of new agricultural research policies.
Its future mandate in the context of a strongly de-centralised NARS would need to be reviewed.
I Northern, Central, Eastern, Southern Highlands, Western, Lake and Southern (see Map, Appendix D).



- 3 -
7.        National Agricultural and Livestock Research Master Plan (NALRM).  The
NALRM was funded by collaborating donors as a pilot program under the Special Program for
African Agricultural Research (SPAAR) and co-ordinated by ISNAR!. It was intended to develop a
comprehensive plan that reviewed and defined a national agricultural and livestock research program,
identifying ranked commodity priorities for the short, medium, and long terms, and specifying staff
and physical resource requirements. A draft NALRM was circulated for internal and external review
in early 1991, finalised in December 1991 and launched at a national workshop in March 1992.
Concurrently an Organisation and Management (O&M) Study was undertaken with support of the
UK, which inter alia provided recommendations on a new zonal research structure, respective zone
and centre functions, research management, and staff terms and conditions of service. Most NALRM
recommendations were endorsed by GoT including those for re-structuring and downsizing the
NARS. IDA funds were eventually distributed to concerned research centres for implementation of
agreed priorities in late 1993, eighteen months after finalisation of the NALRM. The subsequent
response from bilateral donors was, however, disappointing as few pledged incremental funding to
support NALRM proposals. Subsequently DRT undertook a further research prioritisation exercise
for each zone, injecting a greater degree of client involvement. The project succeeded in preparing a
comprehensive NALRM which was instrumental in initiating better resource allocation on a rational
and prioritised basis and in developing a framework for demand driven zonal research. Whilst
NALRM undoubtedly proved a useful foundation tool, it was expensive and superseded by the zonal
planning and prioritisation exercise.
8.        Staff Development and Training. The project largely met its training targets. Some 21
staff attended long-term training, and about 660 staff attended short courses which were mainly
conducted locally and in the region. The short-term training focused on research, support services,
monitoring and evaluation, and financial management in line with the project objectives. In addition
some 25 postgraduate scholarships and 50 short term courses were also offered by various other
donors and organisations. This component was well planned, covered the priority training needs
identified at appraisal for scientific, management and support staffs, and was successfully executed.
9.        Civil Works. Provisions were made for constructing a new DRT Headquarters and for
research station rehabilitation and construction needs which were to be recommended by the
NALRM. In all, IDA funded the new DRT HQs (1,700 m2) in Dar Es Salaam (completed by end
1997), and infrastructure improvement at 9 research stations3. About 50% of the planned IDA-funded
construction program was completed at a total cost of US$2.94 million. Partial completion was due
to serious cost escalation arising from delays in tender and contract approvals, inadequate consultancy
services and delayed fund allocation after NALRM completion. The quality of completed works seen
appeared satisfactory. Infrastructure improvement of 6 other stations, funded by ADF, was only
initiated at the end of 1997 and is expected to be completed by mid-i 999.
10.       Vehicles and Equipment.  This component was intended to meet the immediate
requirements of vehicles and equipment, prior to completion of the NALRM and O&M studies.
About 60% of IDA vehicle and equipment procurement was completed within the first two years of
I International Service for National Agricultural Research.
2 1 BSc, 16 MSc and 4 PhD, mostly overseas, finded by ADF. In addition, The Netherlands funded training in
Farming Systems Research (FSR) which was not anticipated at appraisal.
3 Including water and electricity supply, the rehabilitation and/or construction of 38 houses, two workshops, one
warehouse, one laboratory and three office blocks, all of which were completed by the end of the project.



- 4 -
project implementation, the remaining funds were utilised from March 1993 onwards'. Although the
objective of rapidly procuring vehicles and equipment was only partly met, this overall provision
greatly facilitated implementation of research activities recommended under the NALRM and in the
subsequent zonal research prioritisation.
11.       Priority Research Activities and Research Results: One central and seven zonal FSR
teams were established to assist researchers to better identify and address farmers' priority needs; to
strengthen farmers-extension-research linkages and to facilitate linkage between the commodity
programs within DRT. Most crop commodity scientists, and some livestock and soils scientists,
attended training on FSR methodologies. Increased participation of farmers in technology generation
was promoted through the Client Oriented Research (COR) methodology and on-farn research. The
cotton and root and tuber programs were to be funded by ADF and the lUK (cotton only): however,
ADF disbursement delays and withdrawal of UK support to cotton resulted in little research activity
or output. Nevertheless the zonal stations continued to carry out crop and livestock research in terms
of the NALRM and zonal priorities with the limited resources that were available during the proj ect
period. The DRD has reported the following on release of varieties and adoption rates in the surveyed
areas. Important crop varieties developed and released include four in wheat, ten in maize, four in
beans, three in barley, six clones of highly efficient coffee, three each in sorghum/millets, sesame and
cassava, one variety in cotton, one cultivar in tobacco, three clones in pyrethrum and five varieties in
sugarcane. Dual-purpose Mpwapwa cattle breed was further improved and introduced in Dodoma
region. More effective control techniques for trypanosomiasis were developed and introduced in
Unguja region of Zanzibar where trypanosomiasis incidence reduced to zero from 25.5%. Released
wheat varieties are adopted by 80% of the large farmers and 25-30% of the small farmers; maize
varieties are being used by 40% of the farmers; 60% farmers in 6 surveyed districts had adopted the
Lyamungu 85 and 90 varieties; 15% farmers in the Southern Zone have adopted the vegetative
propagation technique in cashew; barley varieties have received almost cent percent adoption by large
and small farmers. The research also isolated cause of "patchy stunting" disease in wheat which was a
major production constraint for 23 years. The recommendation on the appropriate use of fertilizers
and other soil improvement techniques as well as application of pesticides and herbicides including
integrated pest management, and on several cultural practices have been widely adopted in various
zones.
12.       Unallocated Research Funds. US$5.7 million was provided by IDA and ADF to
develop capacity at selected stations to undertake priority research programs identified by the
NALRM and secondly to provide seed funding for a national contract and collaborativeAgricultural
Research Fund (ARF). After the 1993 MTR, IDA funds were allocated from this component for
research station development, leaving only US$148,000 for contract and collaborative research under
ARF.
13.       The ARF constitution was issued in 1992 and the first projects started in 1994. The
aggregate fund amounted to US$210,0002. In addition, GoT provided US$30,000 to meet ARF
overhead costs. A total of 16 collaborative research projects were approved for a total budget of
about US$380,000, leaving a balance of US$170,000 to be funded by other sources such as TARP II.
ARF performance was not fully satisfactory. Implementation was delayed, review procedures proved
I Overall, some 70 4-WD vehicles, 50 motorcycles, three water pumps, 15 tractors, 25 computers, 4photocopiers
and miscellaneous equipment and material were procured with IDA funding.
2 i.e., US$148,000 from IDA and US$62,000 from ADF.



- 5 -
time-consuming and, as a result, research output was limited at project completioA. Competitive
contract research was not tested under the project as anticipated. It had been hoped that the ARF
would attract incremental research funding from other sources and develop into a self-sustaining
"consolidated funding mechanism", but this did not occur under NALRP. Despite these shortcomings
the ARF succeeded in exposing DRT scientists to collaborative research, especially with SUA,
significantly improving overall DRT/SUA linkages. It also served as a useful scientist-training tool
by demanding high quality research proposals from applicants; and a useful pilot activity for testing
ARF management and procedural options.
14.       Management Information Systems, Documentation and Communication.  The
project has started to improve scientific information and documentation services through the
procurement of computer facilities, the establishment of a Tanzanian Agricultural Research Data Base
(TARD), and access to a number of national and international information networks. The INFORM
package, a research MIS developed by ISNAR, was introduced at DRT Headquarters in 1992/93 to
assist in preparing work plans, budgets, resource allocations and summaries of on-going research.
INFORM has also been established at the zonal centres. However, further INFORM and TARD
software upgrades and more regular data base updates are essential to sustain effective operations.
Communication between zonal centres and headquarters was substantially improved through
telephone/fax and Email systems, though not completed and some stations still have poor
communication facilities (i.e., Ilonga, Tumbi and Mpwapwa).
15.       Extension-Research Linkage. Formal links between research and extension were built
into project design. These included appointment of research-extension liaison officers, joint monthly
workshops and annual zonal research extension workshops for joint research and extension program
planning. In 1992, Zonal Technical Committees (ZTCs) were formed to further enhance client
influence on research and extension planning. Because operating fund provisions under both research
and extension programs were inadequate to conduct the proposed activities, their combined impact
has been limited. Better linkages were realised under the FSR program which was well funded and
succeeded in testing FSR approaches involving greater farmers' participation in DRT commodity
research programs.
16.       Donor Co-ordination.  The involvement of SPAAR was intended to enhance and
institutionalise donor co-ordination. Tanzania was also selected as a pilot for implementing the
"Framework for Action" intended to establish a common funding mechanism for DRT. Although
there were some co-ordination problems amongst SPAAR donors in initiating the NARLM, better co-
ordination was generally achieved during project implementation through the establishment of a GoT-
Donor Consultative Group and regular exchange of information. A common funding mechanism was
not established as donors preferred to fund identifiable research activities which fitted with their own
aid program strategies and priorities.
17.       Financial Objectives. The IDA Credit of SDR 6 million (US$8.3 million at appraisal)
was fully disbursed by December 31, 1997. There were substantial disbursement delays until 1993,
when the disbursement lag was 74%, but thereafter the pace of disbursement improved. After re-
allocations, total revised IDA project costs as per category of expenditure are: (i) civil works SDR
2.06 million (US$2.94 million); (ii) vehicles and equipment: SDR 1.37 million (US$1.96 million);
(iii) consultancies and training SDR 1.28 million (US$1.84 million); (iv) non-salary operating cost
(new category of expenditure): SDR 0.38 million (US$0.56 million); (v) ARF: SDR 0.2 million
Initially, many proposals submitted to ARF were of poor quality and had to be reformulated. In early 1998, ARF
review procedures were simplified, and deadlines for each step established.



- 6 -
(US$0.28 million); (vi) project operating costs: SDR 0.44 million (US$0.65 million); and (vii) the
PPF: SDR 0.21 million (US$0.26 million). Actual IDA project costs are US$8.56 million.
18.       It is anticipated that the ADF loan will be fully disbursed by its expected closing date in
June 1999. The total proj ect costs are therefore estimated at US$26.4 million, largely in line with the
SAR estimates. Project financing in summary is: GoT: US$2.8 rnillion, IDA: US$8.6 rnillion, ADF:
US$8.2 million, the Netherlands: US$3.1 million, UK: US$2.1 million and Germany: US$1.7 million.
19.       Whilst GoT funded all local staff salary and allowance costs there were major shortfalls
in the Govemment's counterpart funding for non-salary research operating costs. Indeed GoT
provisions of non-salary operating costs have continued to decline to reach a low point of TSh 59
millions in 1996/97, the last full fiscal year of NALRP (see Appendix C, Table 3). However, project
management took a number of commendable actions to mitigate the chronic operating fund crisis, in
particular:
-    Revenue Retention: this concept was approved by the Treasury for fiscal year
1994/95, and subsequently implemented at nearly all stations. Although revenue
generation potential varies considerably between location, this initiative has been
instrumental in generating income to fund essential research operations and
maintenance of stations. According to DRD1, some US$2 million were collected
between 1994/95 and 1997/98. Revenues have been mainly generated from
production sales, laboratory services and rental of surplus land and buildings.
-    Cesses: in 1995/96, agreements were reached with the major agro-industries to
contribute to research funding through cesses or annual allocations for eight cash
crops, namely coffee, tea, cotton, cashew, barley, sugarcane, tobacco and sisal.
Cesses are also used for providing incentives to the involved research staff. Tea
research was fully privatised in 1996.  There are comparable privatisation
initiatives being discussed for tobacco and coffee. In 1996/97, DRD estimated that
the contribution from agro-industries vvas US$3.18 million; and
-    International collaboration: additional operating funds (and staff incentives) were
increasingly generated through contract and collaborative research with
Intemational Agricultural Research Centres (IARCs) and their regional networks,
and from consultancy income.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.       Research Operating Funds. The failure of GoT to fund research operating costs at
agreed levels was a persistent issue raised by almost every supervision mission. As a result priority
research programs in cotton and roots and tubers did not perform as anticipated, with little evidence
of improved technology generation. After the MTR, IDA re-allocated SDR 0.42 million to a new
disbursement category for research operating costs to support priority programs identified under the
NALRM. This was helpful but insufficient to have significant impact on overall NARS technology
generation under NALRP. The chronic lack of working funds worsened already poor staff morale,
and negatively affected technology generation output. However, this financial crisis provided the
In 1998, the training function of DRT was separated and DRT re-named the Directorate of Research and
Development (DRD).



- 7 -
impetus to stimulate introduction of several positive revenue generation innovations on the part of
GoT and a more entrepreneurial management approach amongst many scientists and research
managers.
21.       Low Staff Morale. Low staff morale was another persistent issue raised throughout
implementation --and is still unresolved. GoT salary scales for qualified agricultural scientists are
very low, promotional opportunities limited, and allowances modest. No monetary performance
incentives are in operation, and remedies are not available under current civil service regulations.
Whilst options for improving the conditions of service for scientists working on cess-funded
industrial crops are available, similar funding sources have not yet been identified for food crop,
livestock or cross-cutting research. However, TARP II has established a system of recognition
(carrying a monetary reward) for outstanding research results produced by a scientist. The value of
reward is higher if research finding has national or regional level applicability.
22.       Civil Works. Delays resulting from inadequate civil works program management and
late allocation of IDA funds and release of ADF funds for station rehabilitation led to the construction
program being compressed into the last four years of the project. By this time construction costs had
escalated considerably and works had to be scaled down to about 50% of original plans in line with
available funds.
23.       Project Management. Unsatisfactory management performance in the first four years of
the project was exacerbated by delayed appointments of management staff, appointments on acting
conditions for long periods and by generally slow re-deployment of staff to and within DRT from
previous research parastatals.  Furthermore the Project Implementation Unit did not operate
effectively as DRT organisation lacked clear lines of responsibility and accountability. Effective
implementation of a complex project such as NALRP required highly motivated managers able to
devote 100% of their time to the project. This proved difficult when key managers operated under
normal civil service conditions. Both the Bank and Borrower skirted this issue, and only after the
MTR, the required adjustments were made and management significantly improved.
24.       Technical Assistance and Studies. Technical assistance focused on supporting the
preparation of the NALRM (funded by Germany), the O&M studies (funded by the UK) and the FSR
program (funded by The Netherlands). IDA funded TA to strengthen research management,
including inter alia the establishment of INFORM (16 person-months) and support for financial
management and assets verification (24 person-months). Whilst some TA has had a positive input in
facilitating NARS restructuring, not all has provided adoptable outputs. Overall, output does not
appear commensurate with the estimated investment of US$5.3 millions.  In particular, few
recommendations of the O&M study have been intemalised. The MTR recommended three
additional studies be carried out on: (i) TPRI restructuring; (ii) the review of alternative source of
recurrent funding; and (iii) a review of private and public tea research. The first two studies were not
completed, and the third study, prepared with FAO assistance, contributed to the privatisation of tea
research.
25.       Mid-Term Review and DCA amendment. The MTR was thorough and played an
important role in assisting MAC address several outstanding implementation issues. However, in
hindsight it was unfortunate that the MTR was delayed by more than a year (until mid-1 993) because
of the delayed credit effectiveness and slow implementation. Had it been possible to let it take place
nearer the originally planned date, in 1991, decisions on adjustments to project management and the



- 8 -
re-allocation of Credit proceeds to implement research station rehabilitation in accordance with
NALRM recommendations could probably have been acdvanced by one year.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.       Institutional sustainability.  The significant institutional reforms introduced under
NALRP appear to have been intemalised with a strong degree of local ownership and therefore the
Mission is confident they will be sustained. The number of scientists in the NARS is constant and,
despite poor terms of service, leakage of professional staff to the private sector or other organisations
appears insignificant. No progress has been made in developing improved service conditions for
agricultural scientists and it is unrealistic to expect that exceptional conditions will be approved
within the civil service structure. Providing opportunities and incentives for scientists to generate
non-government source financing to augment their operating funds and bolster income is one way of
improving rewards and morale and of enhancing NARS sustainability. The maintenance of
preferential salaries and allowance for key NARS managers is critical in the medium term to maintain
implementation pace under TARP II, but long-term solutions to the general issue of sustaining quality
managers in the public sector NARS have still to be foun.d.
27.       Financial Sustainability. In the short to medium terms project sustainability will be
ensured by the continued IDA support under TARP II and through anticipated support from a number
of bilateral donors. The future health and long term sustainability of the NARS will to a large degree
depend upon: the growth of secure cess funding arrangements; increased collaborative and contract
work with regional and international organisations; and through increased cost recovery on services.
Cess funds have under-pinned research on industrial crops since 1995 and future research on these
commodities will be fully dependent on the support of their respective industries. GoT is likely to
remain the main source of funding for most food crop and livestock research. But with decreased
demands on Government budget by exclusion of the budget support to industrial/commercial crops,
increasing trend in resources raised from cessAevies, contract and collaborative research and funds
availability from the zonal agricultural research funds (being established under TARP II), and the
above initiatives underpinned by a strong institutional stricture the overall sustainability is considered
likely.
28.       Vehicle and Equipment Replacement.  The lack of a reliable internal capital
replacement scheme for vehicles and equipment is a matter of concem. GoT funds are rarely
available for vehicle and equipment replacement which has become a donor dependent exercise.
Whilst not an immediate problem, donor support cannot be guaranteed in the future and an affordable
intemal replacement scheme has to be devised to ensure long-term operational sustainability.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.       Project design was good and directly addressed key organisational, management and
institutional issues. It was though ambitious in expecting that specific research activities could be
implemented concurrently with major institutional change and optimistic in its assumption that GoT
would adequately finance research operating costs. Project supervision was intensive, with an
average annual coefficient of 25 staff weeks over 17 missions. Supervision was unable to prevent
serious implementation delays and resolve problems of weak project management in the first four
years. Despite intensive supervision the somewhat generic issues of inadequate GoT funding of
research operating funds and low staff morale persisted. The MTR was thorough and important in
improving subsequent implementation. At that time Banik support helped to strengthen the Project



- 9 -
Implementation Unit developing clear lines of responsibility and accountability and providing key
managers better terms of service. Thereafter management and supervision performance significantly
improved and, in the second half of the project, the pace of implementation and disbursements
picked-up'. Bank staff also assisted MAC introduce important initiatives to ease the operating fund
crisis (i.e., crop cesses and retention scheme). SPAAR played a positive role in encouraging donor
co-ordination and assisting research management. Overall, the Bank performance is considered
satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.       Borrower performance can be separated into two main phases. Performance in the first
phase (1989-1993) was less than satisfactory and characterised by implementation delays and weak
management. Progress, however, was made in the dissolution of three of the four research parastatals
and their integration within DRT; in completion of NALRM and O&M studies; and through start-up
of the Netherlands-funded FSR component. There were however, significant delays in rationalisation
of the research network and in staff redeployment and actual capacity building at zonal research
institutes and centres was minimal. Borrower performance improved markedly from 1993 through
Credit closing on December 31, 1997.  Three main factors facilitated this change; (i) the
strengthening of the Project Implementation Unit within DRT; (ii) DCA amendment allocating funds
for implementing NALRM priority programs at zonal level; and (iii) ADF funds started to become
available. Thereafter, Borrower performance improved and implementation accelerated both at
headquarters and in the zones. Although there were delays in meeting legal requirements, the
Borrower eventually complied with all main DCA covenants. The Borrower however failed to
comply with the agreement to maintain the 1987/88 value in real terms of its annual contributions to
the recurrent research budget. Overall, Borrower performance was satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.       The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory as it achieved its primary
objectives of structural consolidation and institutional reform. A new de-centralised zonal structure
has been adopted and a more client oriented research approach internalised. The SAR did not attempt
to quantify the expected project impact and an economic rate of return was not calculated. During
project implementation several new technologies were generated, some of which were reportedly
widely adopted by farmers. The DRD has reported the following on release of varieties and adoption
rates in the surveyed areas. Important crop varieties developed and released include four in wheat,
ten in maize, four in beans, three in barley, six clones of highly resistant coffee and 13 vegetable
varieties. Dual-purpose Mpwapwa breed of cattle continued to be introduced in Dodoma region.
Control techniques for trypanosomiasis were further improved and introduced in Unguja region of
Zanzibar where the incidence of disease reduced from 25.5 % to zero percent. Released wheat
varieties are adopted by 80% of the large-scale farmers and 25-30% of the small-scale farmers; maize
varieties are being used by about 40% of the farmers; regarding beans 60% farmers in 6 surveyed
districts had adopted Lyamungu 85 and 90 varieties. The research also isolated cause of "patchy
NALRP was a high cost operation spanning thirteen years from project identification to Credit closing. It
involved 393 weeks of Bank staff time and cost US$913,000 to administer --equivalent to over 10% of the
value of the IDA Credit. This cost is largely explained by the depth and complexity of the structural and
institutional reforms involved; this led to intensive inputs for project identification through negotiation and for
supervision.



- 10-
stunting" disease in wheat which was a major production constraint for 23 years.  The
recommendations on application of fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides have also received substantial
adoption. Technology generation was, however, biased in favour of crop breeding and variety
releases. Only a few technologies were released that address crop and livestock management issues.
The improved capacity of DRT was also reflected in increased collaboration with IARCs and regional
research and development networks.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32.       Many of the issues reported in this ICR are being addressed -under TARP II including
steps to further decentralise research to zones and significantly empower farmers through
establishment of Zonal Executive Committees, Zonal Agricultural Research Funds, Client Oriented
Research and by stipulating that 50% of resources would be expended on-farm research. Suggestions
are made in this report, which could usefully be taken into account in on-going implementation, in
order to: increase flexibility in adjusting skill-mix of staff establishment to current and future needs;
maintain strong inter-zonal co-ordination to avoid duplication and to drive synergies; continue NARS
downsizing and rationalisation; improve cost recovery on research services and operations; secure
reliable cess contribution from industry; review the mandate of the national ARF as new Zonal
Agricultural Research Funds are developed; mitigate low staff morale issues; and better integrate
socio-economic and marketing inputs in COR to improve the relevance and adoption of the research
product.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.       Summarized below are important lessons learned. These include lessons which are the
basis of several initiatives included in TARP II to effect improvements. Appropriate suggestions as to
next steps are made in respect of several of the summarized lessons which the DRD can consider for
appropriate implementation:
-    With its new "development" content, DRD may develop strategies for a broader
R&D function. This is fully consistent with increased emphasis on COR and on-
farm research, and the creation of de-centralised, zonal research funds under TARP
II. The new "development" function needs to be clearly defined and explained to
DRD staff. It is also important that DRD gives increasing emphasis to socio-
economic and marketing issues in the final development of its product, and to
forging stronger links with all stakeholders, including farmers, NGOs, private
sector and others.
-    Though COR has been formally internalised by DRD, its approaches are still to be
fully integrated in commodity and cross-cutting programs and there is need for
further training and support in this area.
-    Livestock research, especially small-stock, is still under-represented in some zones
and deserves strengthening as this sub-sector can have significant impact on
national priorities for improving nutritional standards and in poverty alleviation.
-    NALRP has demonstrated that chronic financial constraints can generate improved
and innovative management approaches, even in a NARS that has been historically



- 11 -
dependent upon, and used to in-adequate government funding over many years. In
the case of NALRP, the financial crisis became so severe that GoT was driven to
adopt flexible financial arrangements enabling scientists to access non-government
funding sources. After a very difficult period, a healthier attitude has emerged that
the research stations regard raising resources outside the budget as an important
management function. This offers hope that a more cost-effective and sustainable
NARS can develop.
NALRP implementation experience illustrates the importance of an adequately
remunerated and motivated project management operating in an environment with
unambiguous lines of responsibility and accountability.
Technical assistance, funded mainly by bilateral donors, amounted to some 20% of
total project costs (para 24). Whilst the product of several studies proved useful,
especially the NALRM and the revised financial management system, overall TA
impact does not appear commensurate with this level of investment. Relatively
few studies' recommendations have been adopted and internalised. Further, their
utility quickly wanes as they are over-taken by new events. Expenditures on TA
should be very selective and their quality and utility carefully monitored.
DRD staffing is dominated by crop-related scientists' and under-represented in
disciplines such as natural resource conservation, socio-economics, marketing and
livestock. As client oriented research is increasingly undertaken, the subjects of
emerging research priorities may not be matched by the existing skill mix.
Therefore, there is a need for flexibility in adjusting existing staff establishment
and in future recruitment, and to increase contract and collaborative research with
outside bodies, especially in areas where DRD skill capacity is limited.
Decentralisation of management and administration to the seven agro-ecological
zones is strongly supported; but because the zones are far from homogenous and
similar agro-ecological situations are shared, imaginative inter-zonal coordination
would be needed which helps avoid duplication and derive synergies but does not
dilute stakeholder control of zonal research agenda. To optimise use of specialist
scientific skills and laboratory facilities across zones, further staff re-deployment
and increased use of common laboratory services may be necessary.
Rationalisation and consolidation of the NARS has resulted in a significant
reduction in the number of research institutes, centres and stations, and a cut in
support staff. This must however be regarded as a dynamic process rather than a
one-off project activity and DRD may require further structural adjustment to
improve efficiency and effectiveness as conditions change;
As far as practicable a statutory framework should be established for cess-funded
commodity research. This would help avoid uncertainty on the cess rate, fund
inflow and their continuation. Options to secure levy or cess funding for food crop
and livestock research should also be investigated through the food processing and
It is estimated that 75% of staff work on crop related research.



- 12 -
marketing industries (e.g., millers, abattoirs and markets; canneries and processors,
etc).
Retention of competent and motivated management within DRD is essential for
NARS effectiveness. As it is unlikely that exceptional terms of service would be
acceptable within a common civil service structure, innovative solutions have to be
found. Consideration may be given to including a management overhead element
in DRD cost recovery operations to finance performance supplements for key
researchers and research managers.
The mandate of the National ARF will require review in the light of lessons learned
from the Zonal Agricultural Research Funds (ZARF) established under TARP II.
The national ARF could concentrate on researchable problems of a cross-zonal
nature.
The research-extension-farmer linkages improved overtime and were helped by
allocations made in the extension projects (particularly NAEP II) for supporting
researcher participation in several field activities e.g., farmer days , field days and
on-farm demonstrations/trials.  Some zones established farmer research clubs
where extensionists regularly participated. With the transfer of responsibility for
implementation of the extension program to the district councils and reorganization
of the regional administration there is need to review extension-research linkage
mechanism to respond to the above changes.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(v)          (v)         (v)           (v)
Macro policies                     L i                                    I  I]
Sector policies                    a            EI          En            E
Financial objectives               ED           E7          En            [I]
Institutional development          E71         En           Eii           En
Physical objectives                En                       En            En
Poverty reduction                  En          En            En           En
Gender issues                      En          En           En            IL]
Other social objectives            [I]         Fi           [I]           En
Environmental objectives           En          m            Li]           En
Public sector management           En           E           En            EnI
Private sector development         En          m EE                       En
Other (capacity building)          FI          En           En            En
B. Project sustainability          Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(v)          (v)         (v)
E   E    E
Highly
C. Bank performance             Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
(v)          (v)         (v)
Identification                   En           En 
Preparation assistance           En           F[           En
Appraisal                        En           En           En
Supervision                      En           En          En



- 14-
Highly
D. Borrower perfonnance          Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
(v)          (v)        (v)
Preparation                         I         mE]
Implementation'                 [Z           E             O
Covenant compliance              0          m             E
Operation (if applicable)                   E7              ]
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome        Satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(v)         (v)            (v)            (v)
El    El   .l                           E
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose            Year of approval             Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
1891-TZ                Agriculture Export              1988           Completed
Rehabilitation
1994-TZ.               National Agriculture &          1989           Completed
Livestock Extension
Rehabilitation
2050-TZ                Cashew and Coconut              1989           Completed
Tree Crops Development
2537-TZ                Agricultural Sector             1993           Ongoing
Management
2899-TZ                National Agricultural           1996           Ongoing
Extension II
2900-TZ                River Basin                     1996           Ongoing
Management and
Smallholder Irrigation
Improvement
3036-TZ                Agricultural Research II        1998           Ongoing
1/ Performance up last 3 years. Deficient in first 3 years. Improvement for later years (3-4).



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned              Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                           August 1985              August 1985
Preparation                              November- December 1986  November- December 1986
Appraisal                                May 1987                 May 1987
Staff Appraisal Report                   August 1987              July 1988
Negotiations                             November 1987            April 1988
Board presentation                       December 1987            December 1988
Signing                                  Mid-1988                 February 1989
Effectiveness                            October 1988             August 1989
Mid-Term Review                          October 1991             April - May 1993
Project Completion                       September 1996           December 1997
Loan closing                             March 1997               December 1997
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Appraisal         0.80     2.4      4.0      5.4     6.7      7.5     8.1      8.3   8.3      8.3
estimate
Actual              --   0.63    0.67      1.37     1.76    2.29    4.23    6.11    7.94    8.56
Actual as %        0%     26%      17%     75%      26%     31%      52%     74%      96%    103%
of estimate
Date of final disbursement: April 20, 1998.



- 16 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementationl
I          Estimated          T              Actual
I. Re-structuring of Agricultural Research
1.  Consolidated Research &                    1                   2 (DRT and TPRI which was
Training Department                                            maintained as a parastatal)
2.  Zonal Research Centres                   6 -7                              7
3.  Downsizing of research staff                                        12 (3% reduction)
4.  Downsizing of support staff                                        775 (25% reduction)
4.  Constmrction of DRT HQ                 1,700 m2                         1,700 m2
5.  Long-term Technical                60 person-months                 33 person-months
Assistance for NALRM
IL  Training (DRT staff trained)
Long-term
1.  B.Sc                                      0                                1
2.  M.Sc                                      14                               23
3.  PhD                                        8                               5
Short term Courses                           713                              655
II. Civil works (IDA funding only)                                                              l
1.  New & rehabilitated                    9,625 m2                         4,560 m2
buildings
2.  Rehabilitated office                      10                               7
buildings & supply systems I
IV. Vehicles for research and re-structuring of research
1.  Vehicles 4-wheel,
pick-ups & lorries                       104                              125
2.  Motorcycles & bicycles                    168                             187
3.  Tractors                                  17                               15
V. Agricultural Research Fund (ARF)
1.  Funding                              US$ 753,000                      US$ 382,000
2.  Number of projects                         -                               16
Except for training, performance indicators were not defined in the SAR.



- 17 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators              Estimated                         Actual
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defmed
Study            At Appraisal/Redefined          Status            Impact of Study
Defined at Appraisal
1. National Agricultural   Definition of medium- and   Completed        Substantial, served as a
and Livestock Research   long-term national agricul-                    basis   for   NARS
Master Plan            tural research strategy &                        restructuring;    but
programme prioritisation;                        super-seeded      by
follow-up      Zonal
prioritisation
2. Organisation and    Plan for NARS institutional     Completed        Limited, as few recom-
Management Study       restructuring and  research                      mendations were inter-
management;                                      nalised in the consoli-
dated DRT
Recommended atMTR
3. Restructuring of TPRI  Review  and  recommend        Not done        NA
new  mandate and institu-
tional set-up
4. Review of alternative   To identify ways to over-    Not done        Proposal overtaken by
source of recurrent    come the chronic lack of                         events,   as   DRT
funding for DRT        GoT non-salary operating                          established  Retention
funds                                            Scheme and cesses
5. Tea Research        To carry out a review of   Completed by FAO    Contributed  to  the
Privatisation          public  and  private  tea                        privatisation  of  tea
research with a view of full                    research.
privatisation of tea research



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                       (US$M)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs              costs     costs
Item
A. Research Programmes
Roots & Tuber                         0.4       1.4      1.8      0.5         0.7      1.2
Cotton                                0.6        2.4      3.0      0.6         0.5     1.1
Farming Systems                       0.6        1.9      2.5      0.5         3.1     3.6
Sub-Total Research Programmes            1.6       5.7      7.3      1.6         4.3      5.9
B. Organisation &  Management            1.7       5.6      7.3      0.6         7.8      8.4
C. Unallocated Research Fund2
Agricultural Research Fund                                       0.03         0.3      0.3
NALRM Research Priorities                                         0.6         3.9      4.5
Sub-Total
Unallocated Research Fund                0.8       4.0      4.8      0.7         4.2      4.9
D. Vehicles, Equipment                             3.0      3.0                  2.8      2.8
& Materials Fund3
Total Base Costs                         4.1      18.3    22.3       2.9        19.1    22.0
Physical Contingencies                   0.2       0.2      0.4        -           -        -
Price Contingencies                      0.5       2.0      2.6        -           -        -
TOTALI                                   4.8      20.5    25.3       2.9        19.1    22.0
Difference of US$ 3.3 million between estimation and actual (US$ million):
4.4      outstanding ADF contributions (now in process of disbursement)
0.8      withdrawal of UK contribution for Cotton Research Programme
- 0.4     increased contribution from The Netherlands for Farming Systems Programme
- 0.3     higher contribution from IDA in $-terms (SDR remained constant)
- 1.2     increased domestic contributions
3.3      TOTAL.
2          Appraisal estimate including contingencies = US$ 5.7 million; unutilised funds refer to ADF.
3          Initial disbursement for urgent needs: US$ 0.6 million (only by IDA); the balance was eventually re-
allocated for regular vehicles and equipment purchase under the various project components.



- 19 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total       Local       Foreign    Total
costs     costs                 costs        costs
Source
IDA                                              8.3                               8.56
ADF1                                             8.2                               3.8
Netherlands                                      2.7                               3.14
United Kingdom                                   2.9                               2.1
Germany                                          1.6                               1.6
Domestic contribution                            1.6                               2.8
TOTAL                                           25.3                             22.0
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
There was no net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at
appraisal. Therefore the NPV and ERR were not re-estimated by the ICR mission. An
assessment of the project outcome is presented in the main report.
As of October 98, US$ 4.4 million (U.A 3.5 million) remainundisbursed; credit closure has been extended until
end-June 1999.



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Covenant Present  Fulfilment Fulfilment    Description of
Agreement  Section      Type    Status      Date       Date          Covenant                Comments
Credit       3.03 (a)     3        NC                           Borrower to maintain GoT    encountered    serious
19700 TA                                                        armual contribution budgetary problems and did not
to research budget at maintain 87/88 level in real term.
87/88 level in real
terms.
3.03 (b)     3        CP                           Annual review  of Annual review was done, but lack
research budget with of agreement on feasible GoT
IDA and donors.    budget, though in 1996/97 and
1997/98  GoT  increased  it's
budget on research.
3.03 (c)     3         C      12/1990     3/1992   After     NALRM  Complied  with,  and  further
preparation, review  adjustment were made to better
of   budget   in reflect zonal prioritisation.
accordance    with
recornmendations.
3.04 (a)     9         C      05/15/89    05/15/89   Complete study to Completed.
identify the site for
the          DRT
Headquarters.
3.04 (b)     9        CD      12/31/89    12/31/89   Commence   Head- Started September 95, completed
quarter Construction. December 1997.
3.05 (c)     5         C      6/30/89    6/30/89   Establish  National Complied with, but mandate to be
Research  Advisory adjusted            following
Committee.         decentralisation.
3.06       5        CD       12/31/89    12/31/89  Integrate UAC into Completed.
DRT.
4.01 (b)     1         C                           Have       records, Complied with.
including those for
Special   Account
audited.    Furnish
audited accounts to
IDA, not later than 9
months after end of
financial year.
Para 2      9         C       9/30/89    9/30/89   Submit Work Plan Complied with.
(Sched. 4)                                          annually by 9/30.
Para 3 (b)    9        CD      10/31/91    10/31/91   Borrower to under- Complied with, but 18 months
(Sched. 4)                                          take mid-term review  delay.
with IDA and other
donors.
Para 4 (a)    5        C                            Borrower        to Complied with.
(Sched. 4)                                          consolidate  TARO,
TALIRO  and UAC
into DRT.
Status:     NC:         Not complied with
CP:        Partially complied
C:         Complied with
CD:        Compliance after delay



- 21 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title           | Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Operational Manual Statement
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                  Revised                 Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks        US$         Weeks         US$       Weeks        US$
Preparation to            N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A         85.2  201,000
appraisal
Appraisal                 N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A         59.3  117,000
Negotiations through      N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A         21.5  16,800
Board approval
Supervision               N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A        227.5  578,800
Completion                N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A          9.7  44,500
TOTAL                    N/A           N/A         N/A           N/A        403.2  958,100



- 22 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Project Cycle     Month!        of        DaysN           Specialised      Ismplemen-    Development
ProjecteayderMonth/  of  Days in       Staff Skills       tation        Objectives         Types of
Year      Persons         ield        Represented          Status                          Problems
Identification    8/85            2           na        na
Preparation       11/86           4           20        ag, fa, ar, rm
Appraisal         5/87            6           20        ag, ar, fa, Is, nr.-
Post-appraisal    2/88            2           na        ag, rm
Negotiation       4/88            3            -
DCA               2/89
Supervision
1                 7/89            2            8        ag, ls                   S              HS                EF
2                 12/89           1            2        ag                                                      TA, PM
3                 3/90            2            8        ag, as                   U               S          AC, SM, LC, PR,
4                  1-2/91         4            12       ag, rs, rel, as          U               S                PM
5                 6/91            2           14       tr, as                                                 AC, SM, PNI
6                 9/91            2            7        ag, as                   U               S
7                 3-4/92          2            10       ag, as                   u               S          AC, SM, PM, LC,
AL
8                 7/92            3           10        ar, mi, pr                              S             SM, PM, TA
9                 11/92           9            11       ar, pr, ag, fa, es, as   S               S              PM, SM
10 (M- R)         10/93           10          18        ar, ps, fa, as, Is, rm   S              S           LC, SM, PM, CW
11                11/93           2            4        ar, es                   S              S           OF, SM, PM. RO
12                5/94            8           12       ar,pr,as,ls,fa,n          S              S            OF, SM. REL
13                11194           3            4        ar, mn                   S              S            OF, SM, RRC
14                5-6/95          5            8        as, ar, ae, pr, nn       S              S            SM OF. RRC
15                9/95            4            4       as, es, ae,               S              S          SM, OF, RRC, AR
16                3/96            2           17        as, ar                   S              S             OF, AR, AP
17                11-12/96        4           13        as, ar, as, co           S              S              OF. ADF
18                12/97           1            6        as                       S              S
OF, ADE
OF, ADF
Completion        11-12/98        3            14       ar, as, ae                S              s
Abbreviations:
Mission composition:
ar: agricultural research;                Is: livestock specialist                  rel:        research-extension    liaison
rm: research management                   pr: procurement specialist                 specialist
as: agricultural services                 fa: financial analyst                     tr: training specialist
ag: agriculturalist                       es: extension specialist                  co: comnmunication specialist.
Type of problems:                         AL: Late submission of audit report
EF: Delay in project effectiveness        OF: lack of operating funds               RO: Lack of research output
AC:  Absence of Comnmissioner for  REL:               poor   research-extension   AR: non-compliance with covenant to
Research and training                     linkage                                   undertake annual review  with donors
SM: Poor Termrs of services and low   RRC:   unsatisfactory  progress on   and IDA
staff morale                              research centres rationalisation          AP: Accounting problems
PM: Project Management                                                               ADF: Slow disbursement of ADF loan.



- 23 -
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1970-TA)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE






- 25 -
TANZANIA
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project (IDA Credit 1970-TA)
Implementation Completion Report
APPENDIX A
Aide-Memoire
Introduction
1.        A mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme visited Tanzania from
November 19 to December 4, 1998 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project (NALRP). The missionl worked closely with staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MAC), particularly the Department of Research and
Development2 (DRD). Visits were made to Eastern and Northern Zones, and detailed discussions held
with staffs of research institutes and centres,3 the Dean and staff of Sokoine University of Agriculture
(SUA) and extension staff. In Dar Es Salaarn the mission also met with several industrial crop boards and
representatives of The Netherlands, the United Kingdom (UK) and the World Bank (WB).
2.        In April 1998, the Government prepared its own ICR in accordance with the WB procedure.
This Aide-Memoire outlines the mission's preliminary findings; it was discussed at a wrap-up meeting
chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MAC on 3 December 1998. The mission would like to express
its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance shown by the staffs of MAC and other organisations
met. It would also like to record its appreciation for the excellent facilitation and organisation provided by
project management.
Project Objectives and Components
3.        The overall objective was to implement the first stage of a long-term process of developing a
re-organised and efficiently managed agricultural and livestock research system. To achieve this, the
proj ect was to provide financial and technical assistance to support:
a) Consolidation and downsizing of existing services to establish a new organisational structure for
the national agricultural and livestock research system (NARS) within MAC;
1 Guy Evers (Mission Leader), Martin Maurer (Economist) and Michael Macklin (Agric. Services, Consultant)
2 The Department of Research and Training (DRT) was created in 1989. In 1998, the Training Section was separated
and DRT re-named as the Directorate for Research and Development (DRD).
Ilonga Agricultual Research Institute (AR1), Mlingano ARI, Tanga Livestock Research Centre, Tsetse and
Trypanosomiasis Research Centre (Tanga), Selian ARI, Lyamungu Coffee Research Centre andlrengeru Horticultural
Research Centre.



- 26 -
b) Preparation of a National Agricultural and Livestock Research Master Plan (NALRM), in
accordance with national policies, to identify specific research activities ranked in order of
priority and define the human, physical and financial resources required for each activity;
c) Training of agricultural and livestock research staff to meet needs for research management and
methodology and to support priority research topics;
d) provision of vehicles, equipment and civil works to meet immediate research needs;
e) Cotton, root & tuber and farming systems priority research programmes which had already been
identified and prepared; and
f) Establishment of a research fund for crop and livestock research programs for which priorities
would be established in the proposed NALRM.
4.        The Staff Appraisal Report anticipated that the project would result in major improvements in
the organisation and management of the NARS, leading to more efficient use of limited resources through
introduction of prioritised programme planning. In addition the project would enhance the quality of
experimental work, sharpening the focus on farmers problems through improved research-extension-
farmer linkages. Project design was based on a good diagnosis of critical issues facing the NARS at the
time of project appraisal. Project objectives responded directly to these and were correctly focused on
fundamental needs for institutional consolidation and restructuring, staff training, and improved research
planning and management. Institutional reform objectives were ambitious and it was realistically
recognised that full achievement of objectives would be a long-term process requiring several investment
phases.
Project Timing and Financing
5.       The project was identified and prepared by the WB in 1985/86, and appraised in 1987/88. A
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was approved in 1986. The project was co-financed, through parallel
funding arrangements, by the African Development Fund (ADF), the Netherlands, the United Kingdom
(UK) and Germany. The bilateral donor funding was pledged under the umbrella of the Special
Programme for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR). The IDA Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) was signed in February 1989 and became effective six months later. Bilateral donor support
became effective during the second half of 1989, but the ADF loan only around mid-1990 with first
disbursement about two years later. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was launched in April, 1993. There
were 9 IDA supervision missions before the MlR, and 8 afterwards. The DCA was amended three
timesl. The project initial closing date was March 31, 1997 and was extended to December 31, 1997,
with last disbursement in January, 1998. The ADF Loan is still open and due to close June 30, 1999.
Towards the end of NALRP implementation, a phase 2 IDA-funded project (Tanzania Agricultural
Research Project - TARP II) was appToved and became effective in June 1998.
in October 1993 (following the Mid-Term Review, with retro-active effectiveness from July 1993), Febraary 1995
and June 1996.



- 27 -
Achievement of Objectives
6.        Despite considerable implementation delays and limited progress in the first four years, the
project largely achieved its core objective of reorganising and developing a more efficiently managed
NARS. Overall, the project has completed its intended institutional reforms and laid a good foundation
for more effective client oriented research in the future. However, significant improvement in the
generation and adoption of demand driven technologies has still to be realised.
Implementation Experience and Results
Restructuring of the National Agricultural Research Services
7.        Major restructuring in terms of the dissolution of three of the four agricultural research
parastatalsI and their integration within the Department of Research and Training (DRT) of MAC was
largely completed during 1989/90. However, staff re-deployment and re-appointments took longer than
anticipated. Stemming from NALRM recommendations, the consolidated research structure comprised
seven research zones2 and national headquarters in Dar Es Salaam. The planned downsizing of the
system has been partial and is still ongoing. Support staff numbers have been reduced from around 3,025
to 2,250 (25% cut), but the number of scientists has remained more or less constant (i.e. some 350),
leaving a scientist to support staff ratio of 1 to 6.5. Out of some 50 original stations, 22 institutes/centres
were identified as priority DRT research stations and 13 others were retained as field centres or trial sites.
The process of closing or handing over the five remaining sites is underway. In some cases, resource
distribution between zones and institutes has remained in-equitable with marked variations in both
physical and human resource endowments.
8.        Following the establishment of DRT, the project was to support the formation of financial,
planning and administrative units at headquarters. This has been achieved and accounting, administrative
and project management services are in place and perforning satisfactorily.  Procedures for the
development of annual work plans and budgets were established, and subsequent annual plans and
budgets regularly submitted to IDA for review.
9.        As planned, a National Agricultural Research Council (NARC) was established to be the
principal advisory body on agricultural and livestock research to MAC. Attempts to provide the Council
with statutory powers were not realised and, though the Council did function, there is little evidence that
it has had a significant impact on agricultural research policy development. Its future mandate in the
context of strongly de-centralised zonal research services would need to be reviewed.
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Master Plan (NALRM)
i.e. Tanzania Agricultural Research Organisation, Tanzania Livestock Research Organisation andUyole Agricultural
Centre. The Tanzania Pesticide Research Institute was not dissolved/integrated within DRT.
2 Noriem, Central, Eastern, Southern, Western, Southern Highlands and Lake Zones.



- 28 -
10.        The NALRM funded by the SPAAR donors and coordinated by ISNARI, was intended to
develop a comprehensive plan that reviewed and defined a national agricultural and livestock research
program, identifying ranked priorities for the short, medium, and long terms, and specifying staff and
physical resource requirements. In early 1991, a draft NALRM was circulated for intemal and extemal
review, finalised in December 1991 and launched at the March 1992 workshop. The plan established
national research priorities on a commodity basis, which determined research resource allocations under
the project. Concurrently an Organisation and Management (O&M) Study was undertaken with
support of the UK, which inter alia provided recommendations on the new zonal research structure.
However, IDA resources from the "Research Fund Component" to support NALRM implementation
were only allocated and distributed to concerned centres in 1993, after completion of the MMR (i.e. 18
months after issue of the NALRM). Most NALRM recommendations were endorsed by GoT including
those for restructuring and downsizing the NARS. There was, however, a disappointing response from
donors, as few pledged incremental funding to support the Master Plan proposals.
11.       The project succeeded in preparing a comprehensive NALRM, in better directing resources
on a rational and prioritised basis and in developing a framework for zonal research. Subsequently DRT
commendably undertook a further research prioritisation exercise for each zone, injecting a greater degree
of client involvement into research planning. Whilst NALRM undoubtedly proved a useful foundation
tool, it was superseded by the zonal planning and prioritisation exercise.
Civil Works
12.       The SAR made provision for constructing a new  DRT Headquarters and for the
station/institute rehabilitation and construction needs which were to be recommended by the NALRM.
IDA funded the new DRT HQs (1,700 m2) in Dar Es Salaam (completed by end-1997), and the
infrastructure improvement of 9 research stations2. About 50% of the planned IDA-funded construction
programme was completed at a total cost of US$ 3.1 million; partial completion was due to delays in
tender procedures and contract approvals, and inadequate consultancy services, which together resulted in
substantial cost escalation. Infrastructure improvement of 6 other stations, funded by ADF, was only
initiated at the end of 1997 and is expected to be completed by mid-1999.
Staff Development and Training
13.       The project largely met its training targets set by the SAR. Some 21 staff attended long-term
training3, and about 660 staff attended short courses which were conducted mainly locally and in the
Region. The short-term training focused on O&M, in line with the project objectives. In addition, during
NALRP implementation, some 25 postgraduate scholarships and 50 short-term courses were also offered
International Service for National Agricultural Research.
2 including water and electricity supply, the rehabilitation and/or construction of 38 houses, two workshops, one ware-
house, one laboratory and three office blocks, which were completed by the end of the project.
1 BSc, 16 MSc and 4 PhD, mostly overseas, funded by ADF. In addition, The Netherlands funded training in FSR
which were not anticipated at appraisal.



- 29 -
by various donors and organisations. This component was well planned covering priorities identified at
appraisal for scientific, management and support staffs, and was successfully executed
Vehicles and Equipment
14.       This component was intended to meet immediate requirements of vehicles and equipment,
prior to issue of the recommendations of the NALRM and O&M studies. About 60% of IDA
procurement was completed within the two first years of project implementation, and the remaining funds
were utilised from March 1993 onwardsl. Although the objective of rapidly procuring vehicles and
equipment was only partly met, this overall provision greatly facilitated research activities as
recommended under the NALRM and in the subsequent zonal research prioritisation.
Priority Research Activities on FSR, Cotton, and Root and Tubers
15.       Funded by the Netherlands, one central and seven zonal FSR teams were established to assist
researchers to better identify and address farmers' priority needs through an integrated approach, to
strengthen farmers-extension-research linkage and, linkage between the commodity research activities
within DRT. Most crop commodity scientists, and some livestock and soils scientists, attended training
on FSR methodologies. Increased participation of farmers in technology generation was promoted
through the Client Oriented Research (COR) methodology and on-farm research. On project completion,
the zonal FSR teams were disbanded as step towards intemalising the FSR and COR approach in all DRT
research activities. The FSR team is to be replaced in each zone by a small socio-economic backstopping
team and technical staff redeployed into commodity programmes. The cotton and root and tuber
programmes were to be funded by ADF and the UK (cotton only) from the on-set of the project, without
waiting for the NALRM recommendations. However, ADF disbursement delays and withdrawal of UK
support to cotton resulted in little research activities or output.
Unallocated Agricultural Research Fund
16.       US$ 5.7 million was initially provided under the project (IDA and ADF). These resources
were primarily intended to develop research capacity at selected stations to undertake priority research
programmes identified by the NALRM and secondly to provide seed funding to a national
contract/collaborative Agricultural Research Fund (ARF). After the 1993 MTR, IDA funds were
allocated for expenditures on civil works, equipment and non-salary operating costs, leaving US$
148,000 for contract/collaborative research.
17.       The ARF constitution was issued in 1992 and the first projects started in 1994. The aggregate
fund amounted to US$ 210,0002. In addition, GoT provided US$ 30,000 to meet ARF overhead costs. A
total of 16 collaborative research projects were approved for a total budget of about US$ 380,000. At
Overall, some 70 4-WD vehicles, 50 motorcycles, three water pumps, 15 tractors, 25 computers, 4 photocopiers and
miscellaneous equipment and material were procured with IDA fumding.
2 i.e. US$ 148,000 from IDA and 62,000 from ADF.



- 30 -
IDA Credit closing date (December 1997), ARF had released US$ 183,000 for research projects'
implementation, leaving a balance of US$ 170,000 to be funded by other sources such as TARP II. ARF
performance was not fully satisfactory.  Implementation was delayed, review procedures proved
cumbersome and time consuming and, as a result, research output was limited at project completionl.
Competitive contract research was not tested under the project as anticipated. It had been hoped that the
ARF would attract incremental research funding from other sources and develop into a self sustaining
"consolidated funding mechanism", but this did not occur under NALRP implementation. Despite these
shortcomings the ARF succeeded in exposing DRT scientists to collaborative research, especially with
SUA, which significantly improved overall DRT/SUA linkage in the process. It also served as a useful
scientist-training tool by demanding high quality research proposals from applicant scientists; and a
useful pilot activity for testing fund management and procedural options.
Technical Assistance and Studies
18.      Technical assistance focused on supporting the preparation of the NALRM  (funded by
Gernany), the O&M studies (funded by the UK) and the FSR programme (funded by The Netherlands).
IDA funded TA to strengthen research management, including inter alia the establishment of INFORM
(16 person-months) and support for financial management and assets verification (24 person-months).
Overall, TA has had a positive input in facilitating the NARS restructuring, but not allTAs performed
satisfactorily. Total investment in TA are estimated at around US$ 3 million. The mission was concerned
that the TA output did not appear commensurate with this high level of investment, in particular few
recommendations of the O&M study have been approved. The MTfR recommended three additional
studies be carried out on: (i) TPRI restructuring; (ii) the review of alternative source of recurrent funding;
and (iii) a review of private and public tea research. The first two studies were not completed, and the
third study, prepared with FAO assistance, contributed to the privatisation of tea research.
Extension-Research Linkages
19.      Formal links between research and extension were built into project design. These included
appointment of research-extension liaison officers, monthly workshops at which research and extension
staff would interact on research recommendations and feedback from extension and annual zonal research
extension workshops for joint research and extension programme planning. In 1992 Zonal Technical
Committees (ZTC) were formned to further enhance client influence on research and extension planning.
The combined impact of these initiatives has been limited. Operating fund provisions under both research
and extension programmes were inadequate to conduct the proposed joint activities. Better linkages were
realised under the FSR programme under which operating funds were available. The programme
succeeded in testing FSR approaches involving greater farmers' participation with DRT scientists in their
respective zones.
At the beginning, many proposals submitted to ARF were of poor quality and had to be refonnulated. In early 1998,
the review procedures were simplified, and deadlines for each step established.



- 31 -
Donor Coordination
20.       The involvement of SPAAR was intended to enhance and institutionalise donor
coordination. Tanzania was also selected as a pilot for implementing the "Framework for Action"
intended to establish a common funding mechanism for DRT. Although there were some coordination
problems at proj ect inception amongst SPAAR donors in initiating the NALRM, better coordination was
generally achieved during project implementation through the establishment of a GoT-Donor
Consultative Group and regular exchange of information. The establishment of common funding
mechanisms did not take place.
Management Information Systems, Documentation and Communication
21.       The project has started to improve scientific information and documentation services through
the procurement of computer facilities, the establishment of a Tanzanian Agricultural Research Data Base
(TARD), and access to a number of national and international information networks. The INFORM
package, a research MIS developed by ISNAR, was introduced at DRT Headquarters in 1992/93 to assist
in preparing work plans, budgets, resource allocations and summaries of on-going research. INFORM
has also been established at the zonal centres. However, further INFORM and TARD software upgrade
and more regular data base updates are essential to sustain effective operations. Communication between
zonal centres and headquarters was substantially improved through telephone/fax and Email systems,
though not yet at all zonal centres and stations (i.e. Ilonga, Tumbi and Mpwapwa zonal centres).
Financial Aspects
22.       The IDA Credit of SDR 6 million (US$ 8.3 million at appraisal) was fully disbursed by
December 31, 1997. There were, however, substantial delays until 1993, at which time the disbursement
lag was 74%. Thereafter, there was significant improvement in the pace of disbursement. IDA contributed
to institutional restructuring, construction of HQs building, infrastructure construction and/or
rehabilitation of nine research stations, and provision of vehicles, equipment and materials. In accordance
with the NALRM recommendations, initial civil works, vehicle, consultancy and training Categories of
Expenditure were increased, through allocation from the "Research Fund" component. Total revised
project costs as per category of expenditure are as follows: (i) civil works SDR 2.27 million; (ii) vehicles
and equipment: SDR 1.36 million; (iii) consultancies and training SDR 1.24 million; (iv) non-salary
operating cost (new category of expenditure): SDR 0.42 million; ARF: SDR 0.1 million; (v) project
operating costs: SDR 0.36 million; and (vi) the PPF: SDR 0.2 million. Actual project costs for IDA are
US$ 8.6 million, in line with SAR estimates.
23.      It is anticipated that the ADF loan will be fully disbursed by its expected closing date (June
1999). The total project costs are estimated at US$ 26.2 million, largely in line with the SAR estimates.
Project financing can be summarised as follows (in US$ millions): GoT: 2.8, IDA: 8.3, ADF: 8.2, the
Netherlands: 3.1, UK: 2.1 and Germany: 1.7.



- 32 -
24.       There were major shortfalls in the Government's counterpart funding, particularly for non-
salary research operating costs (see para 27).
25.       Project management took a number of commendable actions to mitigate the chronic operating
fund crisis. The concept of Revenue Retention was approved by the Treasury for fiscal year 1994/95,
and subsequently implemented at nearly all stations. Although business and revenue generation potential
vary considerably between location, the scheme has been instrumental in generating income to maintain
essential operations and maintenance of the stations. According to DRD, some TShs 412 million were
collected between 1994/95 and 1996/97. Revenues have been mainly generated from production sales,
laboratory services and rental of surplus land and buildings. Additional operating funds (and staff
incentives) were increasingly generated through contract research with development projects,
collaborative research with International Agricultural Research Centres (IARCs) and their regional
networks, and from consultancy income.
26.       In 1995/96, agreements were reached with the major agro-industries to contribute to research
funding through cesses or annual allocations for eight cash crops, namely coffee, tea, cotton, cashew,
barley, sugarcane, tobacco and sisal. Cesses are also used for providing incentives to the concerned
research staff. Tea research was fully privatised in 1996. There are comparable privatisation initiatives
being discussed for tobacco and coffee. In 1996/97, the contribution from agro-industries was estimated
by DRD at US$ 3.2 million.
Project Sustainability
27.       At this stage, project sustainability will be ensured largely through the already effective
TARP II and through continuing support from bilateral donors. Throughout NALRP implementation, a
critical shortage of non-salary operating funds was a major issue and GoT was unable to meet its'
commitment to maintain operating cost provisions at 1987/88 levels in constant terms (as per SAR). The
ability of GoT to provide adequate operating cost funding for the NARS in the future remains an issue.
Although increased use of industrial crop cess funds has propped up research on these commodities since
1995, current arrangements are established through various arrangements such as Memoranda of
Understanding, legal instruments and informal agreementl. To ensure sustainability of cess funding, it is
desirable that all industrial crops be covered by statutory arrangements. GoT is likely to remain the main
source of funding for most food crop and livestock research for which there are no cess opportunities.
28.       Through force of circumstances and pro-active encouragement of project management,
researchers have adopted innovative means of directly raising alternative external and internal funds.
Latterly better managers have been successful in doing this, and dependence on central revenue funding
has been reduced to some extent. Rigorous financial control and auditing is essential to ensure
transparency and to protect them from possible abuse and criticism. Current occasional and irregular
Govemment audit practice appears inadequate for this purpose and alternative stricter controls are
I crops already covered by legal statutory agreement are: tea, coffee, cashew and cotton.



- 33 -
needed. Cost recovery on laboratory services has improved but there is potential to further rationalise and
expand income generation as most laboratories are operating at levels below their capacities.
29.          A reliable internal capital replacement scheme for vehicles and equipment is lacking.
Vehicles are rarely replaced from GoT sources and replacement is normally donor dependent. Whilst not
an immediate problem this is a long term issue.
Bank and Government Performance.
30.       The project overall design was adequate, though the phasing appeared over-ambitious,
especially with respect to priority research activities which were to be initiated concurrently with major
institutional restructuring and reforms. The MTR, though delayed, provided an in-depth analysis of the
problems and close follow-up of an agreed action plan contributed to improving project implementation
afterwards. Bank Supervision was generally intensive, maintained momentum and provided useful
guidance. However, it was unable to resolve the persistent issues of inadequate operating funds and low
staff morale raised by almost every supervision mission, or prevent implementation delays in the first
four years of the project. SPAAR played a positive role in encouraging donor coordination and assisting
in research management.
31.       After a slow start, MAC performed satisfactorily in implementing an ambitious and difficult
restructuring of the NARS. Project management was weak during the early years of implementation
because of lack of day-to-day leadership, including the delays in replacing the Commissioner for
Research and Training. After creation of an effective project implementation unit in 1993, there was
marked improvement in overall implementation. There were significant delays in the rationalisation of
the research station network and reluctance by staff toredeploy to their new station. The separation of the
Training Section from Research, recommended at the MTR, was only effective after project completion.
Government has failed to provide adequate non-salary operating costs and to establish attractive and
performance related staff terms of services. However, MAC introduced innovations to alleviate financial
constraints through retention and cess funds.
Assessment of Overall Outcome.
32.       Overall the project satisfactorily achieved its primary objectives although the restructuring
exercise and downsizing of the system is still to be completed. The project was also successful in
introducing several un-planned but commendable innovations, in particular for securing alternative source
of funding. Issues of financial sustainability and staff morale and motivation persisted throughout the
project and remain. As a result the considerable human resource base of 350 highly qualified research
scientists is not yet fully utilised and research productivity can be considerably increased.
33.       The SAR did not attempt to quantify the expected project impact on agricultural production.
An ERR was not estimated because the project was primarily concerned with institutional restructuring
and capacity building. During project implementation new technologies were generated, of which some
were reportedly widely adopted by farmers. Technology generation was biased in favour of variety



- 34 -
releases for most commodity programmes (e.g. maize, beans, wheat, cotton, sugar cane, tobacco and
pyrethrum). Only a few technologies were released that address crop and livestock management issues.
An increasing level of on-farm participatory research (COR) has been initiated over the last years. The
improved capacity of DRD was also reflected in increased collaboration with IARCs and regional
networks. DRD is also publishing a newsletter, and recently jointly launched with SUA the Tanzanian
Journal for Agricultural Sciences (TAJAS), whose first issue was published earlier this year.
Future Operations.
34.       This ICR is being prepared at a time the follow-up TARP II is already effective. Many of the
issues reported under NALRP are being addressed under TARP II for which a detailed Project
Implementation Plan has been prepared. This includes steps to strongly decentralised research to zones
and significantly empower farmers through establishment of Zonal Executive Committees, Zonal
Agricultural Research Funds, COR and through direction of 50% of activities to on-farm research. In
addition, the mission has developed the below recommendations which may be considered under TARP
II implementation; these include:
a) Increased cost recovery should be sought by: (i) further rationalisation of laboratory services (soils,
crop protection, food science, etc.); (ii) full privatisation of industrial estate crops research such as
tobacco, coffee, sisal and sugar; (iii) contribution from cess funding to the cost of personal
emoluments of their commodity scientists with the savings retained by DRD to fund other staff
performance incentives and/or operating costs (e.g. for food and horticultural crop, and livestock
research);
b) Until a statutory framework for cess funded research is established, there will be uncertainty on the
cess rate, fund inflow and their continuation. A legal framework to cover all industrial crops should
be developed as soon as possible.
c) Initial success in developing a more risk taking and innovative research management style should be
fostered with direct fund raising from non-govemrnent sources being an important function of
decentralised, zonal centre management. In this context caution may be exercised in the design and
operation of centrally managed performance incentive schemes which are notoriously hard to manage
obj ectively within the public sector.
d) The mandate of the National ARF will require review in the light of the proposal to create Zonal
Agricultural Research Funds (ZARF).
e) The recent reorganisation of extension services (i.e. transfer to local governments) is likely to render
the strengthening of currently weak research - extension - farmer linkages more difficult, at least in
the transition period, and innovations to mitigate this risk should to be sought.
f) With its new "development" content, DRD may develop strategies for a broader R&D function rather
than just research. This is fully consistent with increased emphasis on COR and on-farm research, and
the creation of de-centralised, zonal research funding mechanisms. The new "development' function
needs to be clearly defined and explained to DRD staff. It is also important that DRD gives
increasing emphasis to socio-economic and marketing issues, and to forging stronger links between
all stakeholders, including farmers, NGO's, private sector and others through collaborative and co-
funded research.



- 35 -
g) Though FSR and COR have been formally intemalised by DRD, these approaches are still to be fully
integrated in commodity and cross-cutting programmes and there is need for further training and
support in this area.
h) Livestock research, especially small-stock, is still under-represented in some zones and deserves
strengthening as this sub-sector can have significant impact on national priorities for improving
nutritional standards and in poverty alleviation.
Lessons Learned
35.       The DRD skill structure is dominated by crop-related scientists and is lacking in disciplines
such as socio-economics, marketing and livestock. As COR methodology is increasingly adopted,
emerging zonal research priorities may not be matched by the existing skill mix at either zonal or national
level. Therefore, there is a need for greater flexibility in adjusting existing staff establishment and future
recruitment, and through increased contract and collaborative research with outside bodies (e.g. SUA,
Forest Research Institute, NGOs, etc.).
36.       Adversity and financial crisis has spawned more innovative, and risk-taking management,
suggesting that "shock treatment' may sometimes be necessary to induce changes in entrenched
management structures that have historically been fully dependent on a centrally budgeted (usually
inadequate) funding source.
37.       There has been a significant reduction in the number of research institutes, centres and
stations, and cut in support staff. However, the rationalisation and consolidation of DRD should be seen
as a dynamic process, requiring further adjustments to improve efficiency and effectiveness. This process
will require further staff re-deployment and increased use of common laboratory services. Strong inter-
zonal coordination will be essential to avoid duplication and achieve synergies.
38.       Given the size of the country, transport and communication costs are high. Further
investment in management information and communication systems will facilitate coordination and
collaboration between the zonal centres for commodity and cross-cuffing programmes, and facilitate
access to international and regional research and development networks.
39.       The promotion of COR, which includes active dialogue between farmers, advisory services
and researchers in all stages of the R&D process, from the identification of problems and causes, to the
selection, on-farm testing, adaptation, monitoring and evaluation (including labour and economic aspects)
of possible solutions should result in higher greater adoption of generated technologies.
Follow-up
40.       The mission will prepare a preliminary draft ICR to be forwarded to IDA by mid-December,
1998. This will include further analysis and fine tuning of data. The final draft version of the ICR will be
submitted to the Bank by early January 1999, after incorporating comments from the FAO-CP intemal
review process.






- 37
TIIE IINITED REPUBLIC OF TAN7ANM
MINISTRY OF A GRICUL TUIRE AND COOPERA TI VES
Department of Research aid Traninii,gt
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCII PROJECT
(NALRP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(ICR)
April 1998






- 39 -
NAT)IONAl, A(CRICUClIlTUE ANI) IVE,STOCK RIFSEAIRCII IPROJECT (NALRP)
I MP 1' L1FN IENTATION CO'iM PLETION RE PORT (ICIR)
OUTLINE
Page
Accrotnyits ..........                                                                                                                           i
1. itrodluction:                                                                         .I
* (icral..                                                                                                                          I
*     Rationale   ot NAI     ..................................................................................... I
*     Majior ('otilnponiclus of' NA  I, I . .........................................                                               2
2.    Review of Progress Made in the Implementation of NALRP:    ..  4
2.1  C tonsolidation  and  Restructuring  of the  DRT ............................................... 4
2.2 Priority Setting ...............................................                                                                6
*   National Level ...............................................                                                      6
*   Zonal Level ...............................................                                                         7
2.3  Proctiremc nt  of Essential Goods and  Services ...........................................8 
*     Procurciiement of Goods ......................................................8 
*     C'ivil Works ......................................................                                                ')
2.4  1 luman  Resources  Development and  Training ........................................... I
*     Staff Rcdeploymcnt ........................................................1. I0
*     Staff l'r-aiiiiiig .......................................................                                       I (0
2.5 Finianlcial Managemenlt and Researcih Funding Aspects .............................. 1 2
*     Projects Accounts, Disbursements and  Audits .................................. 1 2
*     Establishment of Sustainable  Funding  Initiatives .............................6 I 
2.6 Informatics and Documentation ................................................20
*     Information  and  Documentation ...............................................                                  2(.
*     Management Information  System  ..............................................                                .  '1
2.7 Linkages and Partnershiips ..................................                                                                 .23
2.8 g ajor Conistrainsts.- ..
3. Forward Outlook ...........                                                                                                                 28



- 40 -
4.   Athahmenilai,     ts:
r: Status of Implementation of NALRP Components and
Achiievements ........................................                                                           29
II:             Rationalized Institutes and Centres of the DRT ............................. 34
III:            Status of Procurcnilcnit of Goods ......................................                               35
IV:             Scope of Civil Works and Implementation  Status .......................... 36
V:              Sulmmary of Slort and  Loiig-Tcmi Training ................................. 38
VI:             Disburseimient or l'roject Funds ............................................. 40
VII:            List of Approved ARF Projects ..................................                                       41
Vill:           Crop Levies and Estimates of Income Generated .......................... 43
I'1.,.



- 41 -
,ICRON lIS AINDI ARlBRIJ'1ATIONS
AAIRNET          -       Animal Agricultuve Research Network
A C              -       Assistant Commnnissioner, MoAC
A 41)1           -       African DC1evLelopme('nt Bank
AMOl '           -       Af/ican Dev'elopmnent Funtd
ADRIJI           -       Alniaii I)iseases Research Institute, Tanzania
AG(;RIS'         -       Inlterna(ltionll    lin rinaitin Sisicinfi o Agricultiral Sciences and(l T'chnologiv
Al'              -       Agricultural Research l'mnd
A SIRlE( A      -        Association, for Strengthening Agricultural Research
Al?!                     Agricultl lr Rese 'arch Institute
AR'77            -       Agricultural Research and( 7aining Institute
.4 IFP           -       Animal Woork Plan
RARAVESA        -        Banana Research Net-work for Eastern anid Soutther-n Africa
CAlI            -        CA B-International (formerlv 'o Cnmmonwealtlh Agricultural Bureau)
C'A()           -        C'ief Adotinistrtwive Officer
CALD             -       CoYmniissionerfo-r A4griculttrae and Livestock Developmenit
CA Rl15          -       Ctu rrent Agricultural Research Information System
C'47,5           -       C'entre for Arid Zonie Studies
C'D -ROM         -       Compact-Disc Read Only Memory
C'S)8/IISI      -        ( Compqmterized  OCumnentatian Service/Integrated Set of informati(ol Services
( 1 ( '         -        (oininissioi of' tile Eurapean Co(maiunities
('TAI            -       (Cansolidalted Fund(ling Mechanism
('C14 R          -       C'onvultative Group o  Itnternational Agricultural Research
CIR/  I D        -       International C'entre for Agricultural Researclh and Development. Falice
C()"'l'ECII     -        C nommissionfiw- Science andtd 7echnjology
C7Ti            -        Technical Centrefink Agricultural andc Rural Cooperation
CTB?             -       Central Te'ndler Board
1)11 '1)         -       1)(epartmen:t 6I 111ter1n1a1tiona(l Oevelopment
)I?lT            -       I)e(pcrtinci o/ I?      (ir'Irc and 'Irnining, AfoA(
1T)TC(          -        l)epartmental Tender Technical Coniunittee
ECA RSA A!      -        East and( C'entral Afiican Reseacrch Network on Sorghumir  and Millets
Ecahren         -        East aned Central Alfirican Bean Research Network
ERP             -        Economic Recoverv Programinme
FAQ0             -       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSA              -       Fariming Systems Appproach
FISR             -       Farming ,Systems Research
FY               -       Financial Year
GDP             -        Gross Domestic Product
GIS              -       Geographical Intlrination System
GoT              -       Government of Ta7,-ania
(;7                      G (,ermanvy Technical Axsistanmce Agencly
IA R( '          -       International Agric rlowal Research C(eln tre
C/(1             -          International Comiptitive Bidding
11)4            -        International Dev'lwinment Association
I)11            -       Information ind l)ocumnenwation Unit-l)RT, MoAC
ll)RC '          -       International Dev'lopnment Researilch Centre
INFORM           -       Inforiniation for Agr icuiltura(ll Research Manaiagemilent
IAFORA !-R       -       Info rmation.for A gricultural Research AManagemient- Revised
ISNAR            -       International Service for National.4gricultural Research
LC               -       Letter-s of Credit
AIIS             -       Management 111finfmation Sy-stems
lvo,'l C         -       A'tinisty qo'Agriti ttIre and CooPeratives



- 42 -
MoU            -       MeImorandum of Understanding
MT             -       Mfanamgeme'nt Tleam
AI TTC         -       Ministerial Tec/hiic(l Tend(er- Committee
MTR?           -       Miid-Terin Reviewi'
NALRM          -       National Agricultural andl Livestock Resealrch Masterplan
NALRP          -       National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project
NARF           -       National Agricultural Research Ftud
NARC           -       National Agricultural Research Council
NARS           -       National Agricultural Research Syvem
NGO            -       Non-Governmental Organixation
NORAD          -       Norwegianl Agencyfor International Development
NRI            -       National Resourses linstitute, UK
ODA            -       Overseas Developiment Adlministration, UK
O&M            -       Organisationi and Management
PMEU           -       Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
PME            -       Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
SACCAR         -       Southern African Centrefor Cooperation in Agricultural Research and Training
SADC           -       Souitherni Alfiican Developmenit Community
SARRNE T       -       SADC Regional Rootcrop Research Network
SCOPO          -       Stand(ing Conmnitteefor Parasiatal Organisations
SDI            -       Selective Dissemination of Information
SIDA           -       Swedish International Development Agency
15            -       SPAAR ln/i'irmnation S)lstein
SKR            -       Swvedish Kr-oinor-
SPAA R         -       Special Prvgranunefor Afiican Agricultural Research
SUA            -       Sokoine University oJ Agriculture, Tanzania
SUN            -       SUN Accounting Systemn
TA FORI        -       Tanzania Forestmy Research Institute
TAI.IRO       -       Tanizania Livestock Resear ch Organization
TARD           -       Tanzania Agriculiural Researcih Database
TARO           -       Tanzania Agricultural Research Organization
TARP 11        -       Tanzania Agricultural Research Project - Phase 11
TDT            -       Technology Development and Transfer
TPRI           -       Tropical Pesticides Research Institute
UAC            -       Uyole Agrictiltural Centre
UDSM           -       University of Dar Es Salaam
UNESCO         -       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
VEO            -       Village Extension Officer
ZAC            -       Zonal Advisory Committee
ZTC            -       Zonal Technical Committee
ZOPP           -       Ziel Orientierte Projekt Plannung (Goal Oriented Project Planning)



- 43 -
NA 7710NAL. AG(iRI('CtI.T7'11IIAIL AND) 1.11'I1.'S7TCK RESEA RCHJ PROJEC(T
(NI,LRII)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(ICR)
INTIRODUCTION
1.1   GENERAL
Tlanzania cconiomily depends lieavily on the agricultural sector, which accounits for
about 60%) of the GDP, over 61 % of the export eamiings and about 84% of rural
employment. The majority of the peopic (>90%) live in the rural areas and are
cigag(gd in subsistence farminig, withi an average of 1.2 liectares per household.
Alilotigil the national population lhas growil by about 2.8% per annum in the last
1() - 15 years the overall agricultural production has kept pace with the increasing
populilation growth, with exccption of drought years when food is imported lo
mieet shortage. This has been attributed to horizontal expansion of the cultivated
arca and improvements in vertical productivity of several food and commercial
crops. Notable gains reported in the last 10 years (1985/86 - 1995/96) include
pro(LIctivity increases (anilual averages over the 10 years) in maize (4%), rice
(3%',`), cotton (4%1,) and tea (6%,). I lowever, due to expansion of the services aztIt
the indLJustrial sectors (particularly sinice liberalization of economy), the over-Ill
shiare of the agricultural sector in the national economy, though significaint
(>60% of GDP), has continued to and will tend to decline over the years.
1.2   RATIONALE FOR TIIF NA'I'IONAI, AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK
R ESEARCIHI PROJECT (NAl,RPl'):
It has been realized that the agricultural sector can become more productike it
improved technological packages can be utilized, taking into considerationi 01h
specific agro-ecological and socio-economic environment of the various rarrnfitLi
communities.
Thus, the development of technologies, which are responsive to farmers' necei
and the use of appropriate transfer and adoption mechianisms are regarded is
essential pre-requisites for increased farn productivity and household incomnecs
The Govemment has taken cognizance of this and that is why research  r d
extcinsion services have been given top priority status among the various futincii
oftihe Ministry of Agriculltirc and Cooperatives (MoAC).



- 44 -
Tlic Tanzania agriculItIural rcschiii systcim likc (lhose of many African countrics,
hias been and is still faced by such problems like inadequate funding, lack of clear
research orientation and priorities, poor research-extenision-farmer linkagcs and
poor research environment including low research staff morale.
In order to overcome the above constraints, the Government of Tanzania, with
the inspiration and support of various bilateral and multilateral donor agenicies,
appraised the Tanzania National Agricultural research system (NARS) in 1987/88
within the framework of the Economic Recovery Programme (ERP), which was
initiated in tle mid-1980s. Details are containied in StaffAppraisal Report (SAR)
No. 6926 - TA of July 1988.
As a rcsult of the appraisal, tlhe National Agricultural and Livestock Researchi
Project (NALRP), was formulated in 1988 as part of the overall Government
effort to revamp the agricultural sector.
The NALRP was considered the first phase of a long-term research progranm,
which aims at establishing an efficient, cost-effective and sustainable research
service capable of developing appropriate technological packages for the
Tanzanian farming community.  It was planned that in the early phase of
[1989/90 - 1992/93] NALRP, consolidated and streamlined organizational
structure and research management systems would be put into place, staff training
would be initiated; capacity for planning and managing research would be
strengthened.; a research masterplan for the future would be developed and
essential vehicles, equipment, and other research materials would be procured to
sustain the delapitated research infrastructure.  The later phase of NALRP
(1993/94 - 1996/97) would furthier strengtiheni organizational, managerial and
planning capabilities anid prioritized research programmes would be adequalely
funded. For more details refer to page 15 of SAR, paragraphs 3.01 and 3.02.
1.3    MAJOR COMPONENTS OF NALRP:
The NALRP, whose implementation started in mid-1989 and was completed in
December 1997; had the following major components:
i. Establishment of a new organization structure for agricultural research,
including the consolidation of the management systems;
ii. Preparation of a Research Masterplan, which would set priorities for
research,. based on the national goals and objectives and overall impact on
the national economy and farm productivity in the short-and mediuni-
term;
iii. Procurciement of essential research  facilities such as vehicles and
equipment;



- 45 -
iv.  limproveiuciit of' skills lbr the rescarh sMAIf thrLolgh shiort-and(i loing-tcr-in
ti-ainiing in rcsearch tecihniiquics, mietihodologics as well as nianagement alid
accotunling;
v.  Rehabilitation  of the  research  stations  and  construction  of a  new
lhcadqJuarters b uikli ig for rcsearchl cstablislhment; and
vi. Establislhment of an Agricultural Research Funld (ARF) to finance priority
research lprograniics proposed in thc Research Mastcrplan.
The total cost for the iiziplcicniiitationi of the NALRP  for a Five-year period was
estimated to be US $ 25.3 iillion, and( was covcrcd tlhroughi credits from  the
Workl Blank/lDA  and( tihc African Dcvelopmnct  Bank/ADF, and grants provided
by tihc governm nits of thc Uniitcd Kingdomii, lIhe Federal Republic of Gemiany and
thc Nethicrlanalds, as well as sonic contribLItioll from  the Govemment of Tanzainia
tlirough ithe normal subvenitions from the Treasury.
Table I shows the breakdown of the estimated costs andl funding sources.
Table  I :Project Cost Estimates and Fundinig Sources:
Project Costs
Appraisal estimate ( US$M)     Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Item                Local  Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign       Total
Costs   Costs                 costs      Costs
1. Research Programs                  1.7    5.6           7.3       1.7        5.6          7.3
2. Organisation & Management          1.7    5.6           7.3       1.7        5.6          7.3
3. Research Fund "                    0.8     4.0          4.8       0.8        4.0          4.8
4. Veh, Equip & Material Fund           -    3.0           3.0       0.0        3.0          3.0
5. Physical/Price Conlingencies       0.8     2.2          3.0       0.8        2.2          3.0
Total      5.0   20.4          25.4       5.0       20.4         25.4
_   =        =.    ._- 
Project Financing
Appraisal estimate ( US$M)     Actual,latest estimate(US$M)
Item                Local  Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign       Total
Costs   Costs                 costs      Costs
1. IBRD/IDA                           1.9    6.4           8.3       1.9        6.4          8 3
2. ADB/ADF                            0.9     7.3          8.2       0.9        7.3           8 2
3. Netherlands                        0.4     2.3          2.7       0.4        2.3          2 7
4. United Kingdom                       0     2.9          2.9         0        2,9           2 9
5. Fed. Rep. of Germany                 0     1.6          1.6         0        1.6           1 6
6. Government of Tanzania             1.6       0          1.6       1.6          0           1 6
Total      4.8   20.5          25.3       4.8       20.5         25.3
*    1n IV93/94Y 11)MA (redti No. IQ '70ifA Ivas rwicwed and l  l n-cl-c r e-allocated to caterfor the Agr icultroal
** A( Iiuul cot ntrihuhnft  of the Netherland(s w%os incereseul na (IS $ 3.1 million.
* locn  mluds I/.S $f (.7 ZSprilion cv (on trilut ion, ns Sl 'A .II f /n,,l,er ftorfinancingprepo rat ion of thle Resear ch Masterplan.



- 46 -
2.  REVIEW OF PROGRESS MADE IN THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF NALRP:
The NALRP became effective in August 1989 and came to an end in Decemnber
1997. The Mid-term Review (MTR) was conducted in April/May 1993.
The summary of overall NALRP implementation (see Attachment I) shows that all
expected key activities dcscribed in the SAR, the MTR and other legal documlelnts
have becn unidcrtakcn. TIhlcsc includc. the establislinieit of the DRT. preparation
of the Research Mastcrplan (including the establishment of national and zonal
research priorities), human resource development, rehabilitation of research
infrastructure, procurciiiemet of cssential goods, establishmenit of thle ARF and tlhc
carrying-out of agreed research activities with demonstrable outputs.
Below is a brief revicw of the progress made in NALRP implemcntation by
component over the 8-year period ( 1989-1997).
2.1    CONSOLIDATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF THE DRT:
(refer to paras 3.04 and 4.03 of the SAR).
In the early phase of the project, (1989/90 - 1991/92), consolidated and
streamlined organizational structures and research management systems werc put
in place. These included the creation of a unified research establishment by
merging the resources of the defunct parastatals TARO in 1989 and TALIRO (and
later in 1993, the Uyole Agricultural Centre), into a single management unit - the
Department of Research and Training (DRT) under the Ministry of Agricullure
and Cooperatives.
In order to be more effective and responsive to farner needs, seven zonal rescairchi
and training centres based on agro-ecological considerations, were created ulider
the DRT.
In the consolidation and restructuring exercise, the Government was assisted by a
consultancy team, with technical expertise in organization and management
(O &M), which was funded by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
of United Kingdom.
Work on the O&M component was carricd-out between May 1990 and October
1992 with the support of a team of external consultants, from Hunting Teclhllical
Services and Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte comprising specialists in managemient.
research planning, finance, procurement and computer systems. The teaml of
external consultants worked alongside counterpart local staff in the course of tihe
implementation of the component.
Various recommendations were tabled by the O&M  specialists (see O&Nl
Consultancy Report of January 1991 anid End Report of October 1992) and tlhcsc



- 47 -
togcltclr with  tllose resiiltiig  from Ilthe MTR  of April/May  1993, wcec
inicorporated in tllc NAI Kl' Workplanis.
Among the m1aniy recommeniidationis made by tilc O&M  conisultanicy teaml,
inclIdcd hlie improvement of nationial and zonal maniagement structure (suchi as
appointmenit of the Commissioner, Assistant Comiltmissioners and headis of
essential managemenit Llllits at the Head Office); the establishment of the National
Ag\ricultural Rcsearcih Council (NARC), Zonal Advisory Committees (ZACs) and
Zonal Tcchniical Committecs (ZTCs); improvemiienit of the financc/accouinit rig
systcmils (throuighl computerization an(i the introductionl of the SUN AccouLitirig
Svstcmil); establishment of imlproved procuremenit and material/asset managemcit
procedures; huLimani resources needs assessment and personnel managemient.
1il addlitioll to the above recommendations, the Mid-term Review of April/May
1 993 cmpihasized thc need to expedite the introduction of tilc approvcd
0 rM  systems throughlout the DRT system, particularly the SUN Accountitig
Systemi and the Management Informationi System (MIS) particularly the INFORM
package as well as the PM&E procedures.
i)Diling the iriplellciltalioll of' NAIRPlI', most of tihe basic zonal ian;iiagemrciti
stirctlles  proposed by the O&M  Consultanicy Teamil were put in place. Tllesc
ilncludcd 7onal Techinical Coimimlittees (ZTCs) and Zonal Advisory Comilmittees
(ZACs).
In addition, most of the appointments for senior zonal administration positions
were made. These included Zonal Directors, Zonal Research Coordinators, Zollnl
AccouLnltants.
Procedures for procuremiient of goods and services were prepared anid adoptedl.
All the zonal FSR teams were assigned an additional mandate of providing
linkage between research and extension services.
hlie DRT also endeavoured to improve its planning, monitoring and evaluatioll
(lM Ill F) of its rescarclh activitics in or(ler to improvC tlilc crflciclicy ill ilic
allocation and. usc ofresources and shlow accountability to the fundilnlg agenlcies as
well as other stakeholders. To accomplish this task the DRT, in collaborationl
withi ISNAR and the O+M  Team organized PM+E workshops whicih involved
senior DRT managers and scientists from both the headquarters and zones.
The workshops reviewed the current planning, monitoring and evaluatioll
pr-occ(urcs in D)RT anid recommeilinldcd appropriatc PM+E principles andl concelis.
witli the overall goal of strengtheninlg the ability of DRT managers and scielntists
in tihe management of researchi projects. The procedures and guidelines, whcllch
werc developed during the workshiops started to be applied beginning 1995/96.
The INFORM  package developed by ISNAR was institutionalized at the D)R 1
ileadquarters and to a limited extent at the zonal level (see also section 2.6).



- 48 -
2.2.2   PRI()IT'l'Y SF'l"l'IN(;:
(reker t(o par:s 3.1)9 :mi;d 4.1)6w ofh Ile SAI )
A major constraint identified during the appraisal of the Tanzanian NARS was the
lack of clear research priorities.
Tlhus, lpriority setting was viewed as an important pre-requisite for re-invirogating
the NARS, particularly the restructured DRT.
The priority. setting exercise was conducted at both the national and zonal levels.
Priority Setting at National Level:
The preparation of the National Agricultural and Livestock Research Masterplan
(NALRM) from  1989/90 to 1990/91 involved the expertise of the Tanzanian
rescarcih scieintists anid senior managers witli tic support ora few consultanits lroni
The financing of the NALRM  preparationi, whichi amounted to US $ 1.5 million
was provided by three member countries of the Special Programme for African
Agricultural Research (SPAAR), namely the United Kingdom, Federal Republic
of Germany and the Netherlands.
The rcsults of tle priority settinig cxCecisc can be summiillarized as follows:
a) Priority I Programmes
Coffee, cotton, tea, rice, animal health/livestock diseases, ruminant meat/milk,
soil/water management, agroforestry, farming systems research and
agricultural economics.
h) Priority 11 Prograntmnes
Maize, roots/tubers, plhaseolus beans, grain legumes, vegetables and( oil secds.
c) Priority III Programmes
Sugarcane, caslhew, sisal, sorghum/millets, coconuts, bananas, pyrethrunm,
poultry, wheat/barley, tobacco, agricultural engineering and others.
Priority research activities were also identified for each of the research
programmes, particularly those in priority I and II.
The rationalization of the research station network was one of the key
recommendations of the NALRM. Downsizing of the network through station
closure and finding alternative use for some of the low priority stations, were the
main ways of rationalization. The overall goal was to improve efficiency arid
reduce operating costs. Out of the 56 research stations/centres, only 26 were
considered as adequate for an effective research establishment. Attachmentt ll
shows the rationalized DRT research station network as of June 1998.



- 49 -
O) tliesc 26 rcscarch stations, 1 5 wcIc catcgorizcd as priority statiolis and fu.nd(s
wvcrc providcd undir(l  tilc NALRI' for their rchabilitation in order to create a
conidLucivc researchi environiiment.  The selected stations were: Ifakara (ricc)
Kifytililo  (tca),  Mliiingaino  (soil/watcr  maniagemncit),  Ukiriguru  (cottoni,
roots/ttilbcrs),  TuIllbi  (agroforcstry),  Naliendelc  (oilseeds  and  cashew),
Marikitanda (tea), Tcngeru (horticulture), Uyole (maize, beans &  livestock),
llonga (maize, legumcs) anld  4pwapwa, Kongwa, TTRI Tanga, LRC Tanga,
AD)KI ''enlicke - (livcstock rcscarch). l)cDails of the or lhe station rehabilitation
prograniiiiic arc presenicd in 8cctioni 2.3.2.
Priority Setting at Z,onal Level:
In order to complemnenit the national priorities set in the NALRM, and to ad(d-ess
zonal-speciFic researchi problems, the DRT  organized zonal priority sctilig
workshops in all the seven zones between October 1994 and January 1995.
Participants to these workshops included all stakeholders/beneficiaries (famiers,
extension  officers, representatives of agro-industries, NGOs and  research
scicintists) in the respective zones. The primary exercise aimed at establishiilng
l'cw, well-focuse(i and  cost effective  prior-ity  rescarch  programmes  anmd
reseachabic  topics, whose  results coul.d  have  iniicdiatc  impact on  lirm
productivity.



- 50 -
2.3 I')IOCUREMENr OF IESSENTIAL COODS AND SERVICES
(refer to paras 3.11 and 3.21 of (he SARI)
2.3.1  Procuremiienit of Goods
During the appraisal of the Tanzania NARS in 1987/88, various weaknesses were
noted in the field of purchasing and supplies, which compounded the inherelit
weak research management. These included distorted procurement procedures,
inadequate duration of bid validity, widely dispersed research stations (frequently
far Frotn reliable marketing centres and GoT stores); poorly stocked GoT stores to
cater for specialized requirements for research materials and equipment;
reluctance by traders to lhonour GoT clleques or to supply goods without prior
payment; and poorly qualified procurement and supplies staff.
An O&M  consuiltanit on procuremcect, supported by 8 local coutlierpart staff,
assisted in introducing improved procurement procedures for the DRT.
Among thie various achievements realized in the course of implementation of the
proctirement sub-comiiponcnit illcu(lCd thlc following:
-  appropriate procurement managemenit systems for the DRT  were
introduced and relevant supplies and procurement manuals prepared,
*  Eight local counlterpart staff wvere trained in procurement management and
a procurement unit established. The Unit staff were exposed to both GoT
and World Bank/IDA procurement procedures and this Unit has managed
procurement activities without external technical assistance since 1992/93.
*  Formats for regular procurement status reports were designed and
computerized oni Rcflex 2 database.
As a rcsult of tllc abovc, various goods were successfully procured uSillg
internationial competitive biddinig (ICB), National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
and other procurement methods approved by IDA.
Between 1989 and 1997, various items were procured and distributed to the
research stations and programmes.  These included 71 4-WD vehicles, 48
motorcycles, 3 water pumps, 15 tractors, 25 computers, 4 photocopiers and othier
materials.  Details of the procurements status under the World Bank/IDA
component are shown in Attachiment III.



- 51 -
2.3.2   (ivil Works
Ihlle SAR provided anl overvicw ol lhe problemiis of plhysical infrastructure of tde
Tanzanian agricultural research network. Besides dilapidated and decaying staff
houiscs laboratory and office buil(dings; basic utilities like water and electricity
wvere noted to be grossly ina(lequate or non-existent in some stations.
Base( o01 the reconml1elidationis of the Research Mastcrplan, a civil works/station
rehabilitationl prograimc was prepared and has been a priority undertaking unlde
thc NALRP.
The overall objcctive of civil works programme was to create a condiucive
cnvironment, wlicll would  enable  research  staff to  develop  appropriate
tcchnllological packages aimied at improvinig farn  productivity.  Condulcive
cnivirollment iiicals ap)propriate lhotisiiig, adequate onlicc space anid laboratory
Facilitics and (tllher social anicnities.
hlie programme included the construction of the DRT headquarters building at
Temneke, Dar Es Salaam and relhabilitationi of 15 key research stations nationwide.
Wliile the constructioni of DRT headquarters building was funded by the World
Bank/IDA, the rehabilitation of research stations was funded by both the World
Bank/IDA (9 stations) and the African Development Bank/ADF (6 stations).
In preparing the scope of works for the rehabilitation programme, priority was
givcie to services like water, electricity, rehabilitation of existing structures andl
some new works dependinig on1 the iieeds of the respective stations.
'lie DRT headquarters builillg, wlhose construictioni started in September, 1994
was completed by Dccember, 1997. The initial (latc of completion was mid-
D)eccmber 1995, but problemiis of ina(lcquaLtc availability of building materials anl(
poor cnginieering consultaniicy scrviccs resulted in the long delays.
Thle rehabilitation of thc nilc stations funLdcd by IDA started in thc December
1995 at(i was partially comiipleted in Dccember 1997. Rehabilitationi of Tulmbi.
Mlingano and Marikitanda was completed in the first quarter of 1998.
The rehabilitation of the six stations under the ADB/ADF funding started in
December, 1997. after all hurdles pertaining to the disbursement of funds fiom
ADB/ADF were cleared.  Rchabilitation should be completed before thc end
of 1998.
Attwclil7ent IV  shows the  scope of works and  the  progress made  ill
implementationi up to December 1997.



- 52 -
2.4 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING:
The SAR (para 3.10) and the Research Masterplan (1990/91), made a detailed
assessment of the DRT's physical, financial and human resources, including
specific requirements for these resources at least in the medium-tern (i.e. five
years).
Tllc invcntory of the DRT  inanpower situation  inidicatcd strcnigtlhs and(
weakncsscs. 'lihc strciigthis inicluded a hiighily traincd imianipowcr (60% of the 317
research scientists had either an MSc or PhD) and a favourable ratio of scientists
to support staff of 1:4.
The weaknesses were noted to be eneven distribution of the few research
scientists across too many programmes, i.e. 317 scientists spread across 53
research locations and 43 different programmes.
In order to create a critical mass of scientific staff and consolidate the high
priority research programmes and stations four ways were possible:
* recruitment of fresh graduates,
* further training of existing staff in particular disciplines,
*  transfers/redeployment of staff from low to high priority programmes
and stations; and
* use of technical assistance.
Of the four possible ways, the transfer/redeployment of staff was viewed as the
most effective and quickest way to reach the desired critical mass. This was
followed by training, particularly, short courses in specialized disciplincs and
postgraduatc training in dFcicient arcas. In this regard a total of 12 rcscarchl
scientists, 17 technicians and 7 support staff were redeployed in 1993/94.
However, further redeployment of scientists had to be discontinued due to
budgetary limitations.
Staff Training:
In order to address the training needs for the DRT, a comprehensive five-year
training plan (1992 - 1997) was developed in 1991. The following criteria were
used for selection of candidates:
*  need to fill gaps in knowledge and skills in priority programmes, -
without disrupting on-going research work;
. academic capability of potential candidates including proven
experience and technical know-how in the respective disciplines.
While most short courses were conducted locally and in neighbouring countries,
for cost effectiveness), most of the long courses were pursued in North America
and the United Kingdom and Netherlands.



- 53 -
1Ilhe overalIl olbjective ol tllc training programmie was to achiieve the followinlg:
i liliproveilcint of wotk perlorimiticc of 'rscarch and sipporot stal',
aIssist in building stireigtlhs and capabilities of potential research
scientists;
lhelp the research staff withini the managerial, scientific, technical and(
support categories to becoImie more effective.
A total of 21 research staff were eamiarked for postgraduate training (under the
Al)13/A[)F component) and( 713 for short-terimi training (690 under IDA and 23
under ADB/ADF).
As of Decembcr 1997, a total of I  postgraduate candidates (3 PhD and 16 MScs)
had completed their studies in the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Canada andl
Sokoinc Univcrsity of AgricLIlturc. Thic remainiing two candidates (one PhD and
one MSc) were expecte(d to complete thlcir studiCs in the United Kingdom1 before
thic Clnd of 1998.
Durinig the period between 1992 and end of 1997, a total of 661 staff (639 ull(ler
IDA and 22 uLi(ler ADB/ADF) attended various shiort courses. This substantially
iclhievc(d the planned training programmc. Sec A/iIchnient V for details.
In addition to thic abovc the Nelhelland(s, thl-ougil the FSR Project, supportedi (lie
DRF staff in ololg and( slhort-terilm traininig. During thle period under review, 9
rcscarch staff were trained at MSc. level and one at PhD level.
Also, researcih and support staff, particularly those under the FSR  Project
participated in various short courses, workshops and seminars in the Eastcrn and
Southern African Region and a few, overseas.
Several livestock  researchers were ti-ainied  throtigih  collaborative  research
programmes between DRT and othier agencies: 8 MSc and 4 PhlD  tlhroulgih
SAREC; 2 PhD thIroughi DFID/NRI; I PhD through IDRC and 1 Msc throuigh
NORAD.
Also various intcrnationial organizations like UNESCO, CTA, SPAAR, ICRAF.
ILCA and ISNAR sponsored a total of 18 sliort courses in informnatics .*rr<l
documenltation for DRT staff ill the course of NALRP implementationi.
The total training output during the NALRP period therefore amounts i.
45 postgraduatc (1 1 PhD and 34 MSc) and over 700 staff in short-term courses



- 54
2.5  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ANI) RESEARCII FUNDING
ASPECTS
(refer to paras 3.26 throughi 3.31 of the SAR)
2.5.1  Project Accounts
Prior to the establishment of the DRT as a Government Department in 1989, the
research parastatals TARO, TALIRO and Uyole Agriculture Centre (UAC) were
operating financial and accounting procedures of SCOPO (tile Presidcntial
Stan(ding Committee on Parastatal Organizations).
The parastatal accounting systems that were in place, could not handle, very
adequately, transactions related to donor fuinded projects. That is why there were
no sotiiid( accounting systems, to cater for donior funded projects at the begilning
of NALRP implementation. Thus, for the DRT to operate soundly, all financial
management activities had to be changed and harmonized in line witlh GoT and
other donor regulations.
The newly created DRT, with the technical assistance of the O+M Team had the
task of improving the existing financial management systems to meet the
followinig requirements:-
. ensure compatibility with the existing Government accounting
requirements
3  facilitate the financial control and reporting requirements of individual
donor agencies contributing to NALRP;
*  record detailed accounting documents of prime entry such as cashl books,
Ie(gers, ctc;
*  ensure provision of future donor funded project accounting;
X  provide managers with financial monitoring and control information;
*  provide financial information that will assist in research planninig,
monitoring and evaluation.
Bascd on the above requirements, the 0 + M consultant on financial managemenit,
together with the five counterpart local staff, had to revisit the.existing DRT
accounting systems with the overall aim of gauging its strengths and weaknesses.
This team came up with number of recommendations that aimed at establishing
an improved and efficient financial management and accounting system.
The recommendations of the O+M  team on sound financial and accountilng
systems were included in an action plan, which was implemented under the
NALRP between 1992/93 and 1996/97.



- 55 -
Sih'llific:1nt achicVCmne,its iii,c(k. included:
*      }}Icl)krparaioll of' ;' Iur'ol,cct ICCoiullitiliiig sii;l, wlhiclh iI1COi1)i;utC
finanicial andl accounting procedures lor botli GoT anld donor
agenicies;
*      training oF25 accounts stalf from the DRT Headquarters and zonial
centres on imiiproved Finanicial managemenit, particularly the usc of
various comlpuIter sortwarcs, mainily spreadsheets (Lotus  1 23,
RCflex, etc.);
*      computcrizatioll Of tile plroject accounits at the DRT Headquarters
ulsinig the SUN Accounting Systemii;
*      ability to manage projects accounts without external technical
assistance  since  1993/94  after the  departure  of the  O+M
consuIltants.
2.5.2  I)isbursiaeient of Foreign annd L.ocal Ftuids:
Giveni the fact that the NALRP was financed by various donor agencies in
addlition to the Govemment of Tanzanlia, disbursements levels varied in the course
of project implementation.
Thc disbursenicnt for all project funds stood at US $ 20.63 millioll (i.e. 81.54%.,)
at the cnd of December 1997.
While all the approved funds tihrough bilateral support (i.e. grants) were disbursed
duLinlg the period under review (between 1989/90 and 1996/97), the same is not
truc of tle credits and GoT subventions.
For instance, tile World Bank/lDA had disbtirsed all the approved  US $ 8.3
nililoni  (or 100%) by 31 Dcccmber 1997, but the ADB/ADF had only disbuirsed
US $ 3.3 million (or 41%). Table 2 shows the status of credit utilization by
coniponent and category as of 31 December 1997.



- 56 -
I'ablc 2: Project Fun(d Utilizistion by Component and(i Catcgory( US $'000,000 ):
1989/90 to 1996/97
A: World Balnk / IDA - Componenit
No               Category              Amount allocated      Amount         Balance
Utilized by 31
Dec' 97
1 Civil Works                                   2.461           2.859     Exhausted
2  Vehicles and Equipment                       1.886            1.957    Exhausted
3  Consultancy Services and Training            1.758            1.880    Exhausted
4  Administrative Capital Costs                 0.066           0.072     Exhausted
5  Vehicles and Equipment Operating             0.527           0.556     Exhausted
Costs
6  Agricultural Research Fund                   0.124           0.193     Exhausted
7  PPF                                          0.281           0.262     Exhausted
8  Non - Salary Recurrent                       0.577           0.617     Exhausted
9  Initial Deposit: Special Acct. "A"           0.370
Acct. "B"                0.148
TOTAL                8.379           8.399         8.399
Note: The original allocated amount from IDA is XDR 6, 000,000 = USD 8,400,000. 77te above
table shows the figures at a prevailing exchange rate of I XDR = USD 1.3784
B: ADB / ADF - Component
No               Category                Amount Allocated        Amount
Utilized by    Balance
Dec'97
I Civil Works                                       2.203               -    2.203
2  Equipment                                         1.461           0.512    0.959
3  Vehicles                                          0.828           0.814    0.014
4  Materials                                         1.083               -    1.083
5  Training                                          1.268           0.886    0.383
6  Agricultural Research Fund                        0.243           0.062    0.181
7  Incremental Operating Costs                       1.319           1.081    0.247
TOTAL                    8.404            3.35    5.049



- 57 -
Re-arding   GoT   suihvcnitions  to  agricultural  rcsearch   as  a   wvllole
(NAi .KRI incIluIled), tIhC diisburIsemIenlt tIrenid was unevcn.
Whilc almost all the approvcd fLunlds wcre disbtursed in the early phasc of NALRP
iipilemnientation (1989/90 - 1]993/94) tIhereafler tllc sittlation changc(i adversely,
when only about 60.4%,,, 27.5(o, 1 .5%  of tilc approved funds were dlisbuiscd( in
the years 1994/95, 1 995/96 andl 1996/97, respectively. Attachlment VI gives more
details on the (lislburseilieiit or local Ftundls.
2.5.1.3 Atudlits:
Project audit reports wcre prepared and subnmitted on time during the citile
pr-oject period and have been free of serious audit qualiFications. The Office of
thie Controller and Auditor Gcneral was involved in the auditing of tlle project
accounts (luring the period unlder review. The latest audit report was that for
FY 1996/97 and waas ulqualified.



- 58 -
2.5.2  l'S;'I'AIJI,ISIIMIEN'I' OF   IS'I'AINAIII,J FUNDING INJ'I'IATIVES:
lcinig . long-tcrmi activity, 'Ptgriticultural rescarch dleimianids adequate anid timiiely
provision of financial resources, particularly recurrent operating funds.
Experienlce and the assessmenlt of current global economiiic trends, inidicate that the
traditional sources of research financing (i.e. Governmcnt subventions and donor
ageincies) depict inherent flaws in tern-s of adequacy and timeliness of provision
of research funding.
In the course of NALRP implementation, the DRT had attempted to seek other
sustainable research funding sources. These included the ARF, revenue retention
schemes and private sector support, especially the contribution of the agro-
industry in supporting research through cesses and levies.
2.5.2.1 Agricultural Researel Fuin(d (ARIF)
Thc main objective of the ARF is to provide a transparent financial mechanlism
for the DRT to receive anid disburse fLin(ds in suipport of the Research Mastcrplan.
Con1ceptually, ARF is regarded as a prototype of eventual full-fledged
Consolidated Fun(ling Mcclhanism (CFM) for a sustainable agricultural research
system. The concept of CFM is one of the key elements of the Framework for
Action (FFA) (an initiative developed by the Special Programme for African
Agricultural Research (SPAAR). Tanzania (i.e. DRT) has been piloting the FFA
principles for the SADC Region since 1991.
More specifically, the aim and objectives of the ARF are as follows:-
  to establish linkages between various research institutions within and
outside Tanzania;
*  to improve the number of opportunities available to researchers for
carrying out research work;
*  to improve researchi environment within the government service;
  to facilitate thic disseminiationi of knowledge between governmnenit and
non-govemment institutions;
*  to provide a metlhod of coordination of research effort witlh tlec
University community and the private sector;
*  to facilitate the acquisition and administration of funds provided by the
private sector, donor organizations and the Government of Tanzaniia
(GOT);
.  to  ensure  that significant research  findings are  applied  and
opportunities for further research are identified; and
*  to promote cost-effective research.



- 59 -
'I'lic ARF whiose Sccrctariat is based at tihe DRT I-lcadquarters in Dar Es Salaain,
is managed by a 12 meiliber Managemenit Team (ARF-MT), made up of senior
DRT maniagers, and represenitatives from the extension services, the two national
univcrsitics(ie. Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA) and the University of
Dar k's Salaam (UDSM)), private sector, r ural financing institutions and the donor
comuilnlility. The ARF Secretariat reports to the ARF-MT.
Initially, tljc ARF is initcilen(e to support collaborative and contract rcscarcih
piooccts, whicih arc (cnmaind-driven and( clicnt-oricnted, particularly the core
priority research prograimmes/projects recommended in the Research Masterplan.
Olliet ARE categories, sucIh as rescarchi awards, publications, travcl grants ad(l
honoraria for visitinig scientists hiavc ICss cmphiasis aIt this initial stage.
Alt F Financing:
The World Bank/JDA, ADB/ADF, SIDA (Sweden) and the Government of
Tanzania pledged a total of US $ 753,182 to the ARF as seed money
(hl)A: US $ 350,000; ADF: 228,000 SIDA (Sweden): SKR 1.0 million
(equivalent to US $ 132,182) and GoT: US $ 43,000). Sofar, ADF lhas released
US $ 62,000, whlile IDA, SIDA  and GoT have contributed US $ 148,326,
UIS S 1 32,182 and tJS $ 30,000, respectively.
AIRF Financial Control andl Accountability:
Financial control and( aecountalbifity arc importanit aspccts of ARF in order to
CenstitC  hlaat funiids arc  usc(l as autlihoizcd  by  Governmenlt and  donors.
CLtaill Measures liave bcct taken in order to acihieve tlle necessary financial
contIols, accountability and( tranisparenicy.
These include tlhe following:
*  Opcining of a scparatc banik account (No. 6503000063) at the National
Microfinanice Bank - Bank H-louse Branchi.
*  Use of the com1puterized SUN accounting system installed at the DR T
T-leadquarters facilitates proper financial transactions and record keeping.
based on activity and source of funiding per donor.
*  LBoth the principal investigators and the collaborating institutions have toi
sign  agreemeits, WhiCh1 stipulate  accountability, before  fuilds  are
dlisbursed.
*  Quarterly disbursement of funds to collaborating institutions/collaborators
is only madc to formally appr-ove(i proposals by the ARF-MT and
subsequent agircmecit of accountability. Disbuirsements automaticallk
cease if quarterly reports arc not subinitted within two monthis aflcr libe
cn(l of the qutarter.



- 60
i. Following the approval and circulation of the ARF Constitution in
October 1992, the Fund became operational in July 1993. The
ARF Secretariat, whiclh was established in July 1993, comprises:
the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO), the Secretary and the
Finance Officer.
ii. Publicity of the ARF was effected by using an ARF brochure,
which had an outline of ARF aims and objectives, scope of award,
ARF  managemcnit, cligibility for submiiission of researchl projccls
proposals, critcria for specific awards and the selectioni and
reviewing process.
The Secretariat has also developed a format for writing and
submission of collaborative research proposals, and the expected
agreements for financial accountability and formats for quarterly
reports.
iii. The Secretariat has developed accounting procedures (reliable
tracking and monitoring of multiple sources and uses of funds) that
satisfy the standards of transparency and accountability expected
by the donior community.
iv. The ARF lhas not only facilitated collaborative research with thle
universities, particularly SUA; it has also enhanced quality
research through encouragement of competition amongst researcl
scientists.
As of 31 December 1997, a total of 92 research proposals have been submitted
and processed. Out of these, 19 have already been approved, 29 are being
recasted and 36 are under peer review. Only eight (8) proposals have been
rejected. Attachment VII gives more details.
2.5.2.2 Revenue Retention Scheme:
Among the various potential sources of research funding, revenue acrued from the
sales of surplus research products and other farm produce as well as other services
has played a role in the DRT research establishment and has helped to alleviate
the inherent problem of inadequacy as well as timely availability of non-salary
recurrent funds.
However, over the years, such revenue had to be delivered to the Treasury as part
of the overall Government income. This was the situation until 1991/92, when
various reviews recommended revenue retention.
The revenue retention scheme, which was recommended in fiscal year 1992/93
was Finally approved by the Treasury in fiscal 1994/95.



- 61 -
As of' 31 D)cccniricr 1997, a total ol0 24 research skitions (oit o0' 26)hiavc
cstabI ishcd rcvcri11c rCIention sccI11Cs which1 clnablC(I lh1CI1 to opCn self-hlpCi)
IaccoLuts Witil local bankinjg institutions.
BctwcCI1 1'994/95 and FY  1'996/97, a total oI rsIs. 412 millioI1 weIC realized
thIrouhll the revcilc retentioni schelmces.
Thcse hunds have l?cCI verIy hitApful in casing thie fina;icial pressure, particularly
over the past two years, wheli the non-salary recuT-enit fund allocation from
Treasury hias severely been curtailed due to the poor performance of the national
econtoiiy    (see also Attachment Y).
2.5.2.3  Involvemenit of the Agro-In(dustry in Research Funding:
lIn elic couise of NALRP implciiementationi of various strategies werc worked-oLit
(i.e. policy and legal Framneworks) to enable the agro-induistry to participate morc
activcly in agricultural researchi. The overall aim was to reduce the public sector
burden on research services and( increase the level of involvement of the privatc
sector, particularly in thlose cominodlities, in wlichi tlhey are the main beneficiaries
of'rcscarch output.
ConsCeuILently various memoranda of uniderstanldinig (MoUs) were prepared and
sigilcd for cighit cash crops, nalilely coffee, tea, cotton, cashew, barley, sugarcanc,
tobacco and sisal. In thle case of tea, the entire research has been privatized. The
Tea Research Institute of Tanzania (TRIT) was fortnally established in July 1996.
There are similar privatization initiatives for tobacco and coffee.
Atachmeini VIII silows the  list of agro-industrial bodies, the  respective
commodities involved and the funds acruing from thle collection of cesses and
levies.
It has bccri cstimuated (1'997 cstimatcs) that abouit Tshs. 1,931 millioni lhas becn/can
be mobilized aninually thiroughi levies and cesscs from the eight agro-industriil
bodics.



- 62 --
2.6   INFORIMATFICS ANI) I)OCUMENTA'I'ION:
Siince its cstablisIniicni in 1989, tl  L)RT D las atcemiipled acccss, mzallage and
disseminiate information in an integrated manner, with the overall objective of
providing timely and relevant scientific and management information to research
maniagers, researchl scientists and othler users.
Beside the improvement of scientific information and documentation services,
emphasis was also placed on the introduction of new management informationi
services (MIS) since as INFORM, ZOPP, GIS, PM+E procedures, SUN
Accountinig System, etc.
2.6.1  IN FORMA'I'ION ANI) I)OCUM FNTATION:
Thle importance of inforniiationi an(d documelltation services lies in thle flact thlat the
development and tranlsfer of improved technologies cannot be ulldertaken
effectively and efficiently without adequate information and documentation.
The appraisal of NARS in the 1980s and the Rescarchi Masterplan underscored the
importance of this service to the DRT and the need to improve it. Among the
constraints identified included inadequate financing, poor facilities, poor staffing
(both in quality and quantity), particularly at the zonal level and weak inter-
institutional linkages.
During the implementation of NALRP (1989 - 1997) efforts were made to
establish appropriate systems of information acquisition, management and
dlissciliiiiatioil.
Though modest, some achievements were recorded  in the course of NALRP
implementation. These include the following:
*  establishment of the Tanzania Agricultural Researchi Database (TARRD),
whlich involved the accessing and arclhiving of all previous literature on
agricultural research in Tanzania up to 1988 (see P.D. Smith, 1990);
* access to and document delivery through acquisition of relevant journals,
books and other publications of current world agricultural research
literatures;
.  procurement of a desk-top  publishing  facility  and a heavy duty
photocopier - two items which have enabled the DRT's Information and
Documentation Unit (IDU) to reduce printing delays and operating costs
drastically;
*  provision of SDI (selective dissemination of informnation) to the DRT
system throughi copies of tablc of contents of selected journals;
*  identification, ordcrinig anid cdelivery of core scientific journals andl text
books;



- 63 -
*  tratililg of inloallation and doctilmiciltation stall, till-ouighl sliort courses
in(lcr tihc NALRI' Training pirogramimiic:
[DU stafTparticipated in about 21 diffecrclt short courses, ranging
rrom onc to cleveni weeks on suchl diverse subject matter like
scientific  writing,  computer-based  agricultural  information
management, (lesk-top  publishing, etc.   While  the  World
Bank/lDA covered the cost of three of the above mentioned
courscs, otlier organiizalionis stclh as CTA, UNESCO, COSTECHi,
SPAAR, ctc. covered the rcst.
*  acquisition and installationi of CD-ROM workstation;
* access and input to externalotlier information networks in the World such
as CABI, FAO (AGRIS, CARIS), SPAAR (SIS), etc.
2.6.2  NIANAGENIENT INFOIMA'I'ION SYSTEMS (MIS)
Tlhese included the INFORM package, zonal baseline data/ZOPP - activity
databases; Planning, Monitoring  +  Evaluation  (PM+E) procedures  and
Geograplibical Informationi System (GIS).
*  INFOIRM:
Thic INFORM package, whichi was developed by ISNAR, was introduced
at the DRT Headquarters in 1992/93. It enables research managers and
rescarclh scientists to get information on researcll management issues suchi
as priority setting, programme formulation, bludgeting, resource allocation,
mon(ilitol-illg 4- cvalu1ation as wcll as 1huml11an and physical resour-cc
111m11aageniclit aspects.
A tecihniical advisor fromn ISNAR, wlho was stationed of the DRT HQ for
21- years (1993 - 1995), worked closely with three DRT staff from the
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in order to maintain continuity.
As of December 1997, the INFORM database had records of 354 researcl
scientists and all first priority research programmes.
*  ZOPP (Ziel Orientierte Projekt Plannung) or Goal-Oriented Project Planning:
The ZOPP or logical framework, is a technique for planning
intcrdisciplinamy research activities by merging activity data-bases and
problcm scts in rclationi to the existinlg farming systems in the zonics.
During 1994/95, wheln the zonal priority setting exercise was being
undertaken in all the seven zones, logical framework or ZOPP was also
incorporated.
This ensured that the research agenda was more client-oriented and
demand-driven. Thus, at the moment, all the zones have zonal baseline
data/ZOPP-activity databases, which are vital for future research
endeavours.



- 64 --
*'NI+E P'roced(lu ces:
Appropriate planninig, monitoring and evaluation (PM+E) procedures were
introduced into the DRT system during 1994/95 with the support of
ISNAR. The improved PM+E procedures were put into use beginning
1995/96.
The staff of the Planinilig, Monitorinig and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) at the
DRT Headquarters were trained in the use of these procedures and tlhcy
offer technical backstopping to the entire DRT system.
* Geographical Information System {GIS):
The GIS is a relatively new management tool in the DRT system. It was
initiated in 1994/95 through the Fanning Systems Research Project funded
by the Govemment of Netherlands.
Three DRT staff understudied the Technical Advisor or FSR/GIS from
1994/95 to 1995/96, when she left.
The DRT has now established a Farmning Systems database incorporatinig
GIS and various maps have been digitized. These include those for
topography, soil moisutre, anid others describing the Tanzanian farming
systems and agro-ccological zones.



- 65 -
2.7    LINKA(GES ANI) IPAIZ I NEIRSIIIIPS
In  ordcr for the  agricultural researcih  agenda  to  be  client-oriented  and
dlern(l-n-driven, it has to be planned in such a manner that beneficiaries have
iinfticncc in the process of tecinology development and tranisfer (TDT).
It is cr-uicial, therefore, that all stakelholders involved in TDT are properly and
effcectively linikedl.
13clow is a brief ircview of (lic progrcss made and lprobIcis faced by thc DRTI in
the arca olf linkages in thc couirse of NALRP impicmcntatioln between 1989 and
1997.
*   Resei i-l i- Extellsifion-F'  i rtnr-H iik:aiges:
This is the linlkage bctNveenl the researchi scrvice (i.e. DRT) and various
tcchinology tranisfcr agencies suchi as the Extension  service, farmer
organizations, NGO's, ctc. and( the farmners themscives.
Between 1989/90 and 1996/97, the DRT systemn, through NALRP, forgcd
fairly close linkage withi thle nationial extensioni service.
Not only were Village Extension Officers (VEOs) and farmers able to
participate incrcasinigly in on-farimi research; the research scientists also
took paart as resource persons in the regular training workshops (monthly
an(l bimonhiliy) organiized by thlc extension service.
In a(ddition, sCIeior extCensioIl ofricers attcndedt various research meetiligs
organized by the DRr at the zoonal level (e.g. ZTC, ZAC, etc) and at
national level (NARC, annual research coordiniatinig meetings, etc).
The extension officcrs and farmers also participated in agricultural silows
and Ficeld days organiized by the bothi the research and extension services.
*  I Ankagcs hetweeii the M)IT lesearcit System an( tliiivcrsi(ics and otiler Natiowd:
lustitutiolls:
Over the past 5-10 years, the DRT has established close collaboration withi
SUA, TAFORI, TPRI and to a limited extent, the University of
Dar Es Salaam. This was deemed necessary in order to avoid or minililize
duplication of effort and( also take advantage of complementarity.
Not only did DRT managers and researchi scicntists participate in variolis
mectings and  workshiops in such institutions; some of the DRT stlff
were/are also members of the managing boards and councils of suIcIh
instittitions. Some of hile managers of collaborating instiutions are also
memilbers of DRT's National Agricultutral Research Advisory Council
(NARC).
As of Decembcer 1997, the DRTR has sigincd mmciioranida of understanding
(MolJs) on rescarich collaboration withi SUA anid TAFORI.



- 66 --
I,inkages ivitlil Regionial and linteriiationial Agricultural Researcil Cenltres:
The DRT has forged close linkage with such regional bodies like
SACCAR and ASARECA and the International Agricultural Research
Centres (IARCs), through whichl regional research networks are funded
andl co-ordi nated.
Most of the key DRT research programmes are involved in various
networks  - e.g. phaseolus  beanis (ECABREN), roots  &  tubers
(SARRNET), banania (BARNESA), sorghumn & millets (ECARSAM),
animal agriculture (AARNET), etc.
*   )Rr - D)onor Co-ordinationi:
Donor support has played (an(d will continue to play) a significant role in
DRT's efforts in agriculItUral techn,lology devclopilmenlt and transfer.
Since, various donor agencies have diverse interests, the DRT has
maniaged to co-ordinate their activities through regular (at least quarterly).
consultations.
The coordination  started  durinig  the preparation  of the Research
Masterplan in 1990/91 and has continued ever since.  This close
collaboration has enabled the donor agencies to know DRT's research
agenda and priorities and consequently their support has been channeled to
those areas deemed relevant for the development of the agricultural sector.



- 67 -
2.8    MAJOR1  ('ONST'RAIN'I'TS ANI) IM1ITA'TIONS:
2.8.1   Consolidation and Restructurinig of the DRT:
Atlhough1 all the objectives for institutional reorganization were achieved, a few of
the activities such as regLilar holdinig of mieetings of Zonal Advisoiy Committees
(ZACs) and Zonal Techniiical Committecs (ZTCs) was inadequate due to funding
constrain ts.
2.8.2  1'riornilv Seting:
elMayed provisioni of'lic(dged( funds froil thc SPAAR (lonors and late signing of
ilhc nmemnorandumi of tinderslanding (MolJ) on llow dollor funds wcrc to bc
ii iaullgtl, contributed significantly to) the delayed takc-off of (lic Rcscarch
NI lstcrphll plrcparl;oiin exe'lcise fbr alimiost 2 years, i.c. fioml 1988 to 1'90.
2.8.3  P'i ormiemetllt IIl of I. NNelt Ii   : (odsmdii Su rvices
The main problems encountered in the procurement management include the
followilg:
-  Long 'renderingProcedures:
ltemls procured thiroughi ICB had to be approved by a chain of committees,
namiiely Departmental Techniical Tender Committce (DTTC), Ministerial
Techinical Tender Coommittee (MTTC), Central Ten(ler Board (CTB) and
WVorld Bank/lIDA, whichi gavc the final approval or no objection.
Significant (dclays (utp to 3 montlhs) have beeCn cxpcriecIed in getting the final
local aplproval at the CTB.
*  Inalequate lDurationt ol Bid Validity:
hlc bid period of 90 days is grossly inadequate wlhen donor approvals arc
reqluire(l.  A  minior delay at any stagc of the biddinig proccss or poor
commnmiiiication can cause the entire procedure to be repeated or validity
extension requested.
Thle proposal for bid validity of up to 120 days has not yet been approved hv
GoT and IDA.
*  Dclays in Opening of Letters of Credlit:
Most of the finanicial instittutions lack experience in opening of letters oif
credit (LCs), and this contributed to a lot of frustrations in the whole
procureinent process.



- 68 -
Inade(qluate Staffing at Zonal Level:
Despite the successful training and und(erstudiyinlg (attachnclnt) of five
procuremenlt staff at the DRT HeadLquarters, most of the zonal centres lack
qualified supplies/stores personnel. Efforts to recruit and or redeploy staff
have been hampered by budgetary constraints.
2.8.4  Civil WVorks
Inadcquatc'scrvices rcn(ciced by onc of the enginlccrinig conisultinig Frim,
Mcssrs Dorsch Consult, contribuLtcd to cxtrcmcly long delays (particularly for the
works for the Headquarters building and station rehabilitation at Tunibi) and this
had ncgative impact on1 the overall performanice, especially cost overrlls. The
services of this consulting firm had to be terminated in mid-1997 and was
replaced by another firm, Messrs Inland Associates..
The station rehabilitation programme supported by the ADB was also delayed and
todate, some stations are still being renovated (see also Section 2.3.2).  It was
only after the restructuring of the ADB/ADF management in Abidjan between
1992/93 and 1994/95, that disbursement started.
2.8.5  Finiancial Management ani( Researcih Fundinig Aspects:
The overall economic crisis affecting the GoT revenue collection resulted in
ulltimiiely and inadequate provision of funds, not only for agricultural research,
but to thc cntirc nationial production scctor. This was the miajor constraint.
Dclaycd  establishmenit of the  new  managemenit structures at the  DRT
hcadqUarters andl zonial centres contributed to delay in timely start-up of activities.
The low levels of disbursements of the ADB/ADF component was caused, to a
large extent, by the restructuring of the entire ADB/ADF management in Abidjan
between 1992 and 1995. Consequently, most categories, notably civil works,
could not be started as planned.
2.8.6  Establishment of Sustainable Funding Initiatives: Agricultural Research Fund:
i. Limited Donor Pledges: One of the major issues raised during the regular
DRT-doilor consultationl meltinlgs was that most of the doonors havc
their prioritics an(d that  is why they have not come out with fini
commitmcnts to contribute to the Fund.
ii. Lack of Awareness: Initially, not many researchers responded to the ARF
as a source of research funding. However, after the distribution of the
ARF Publicity Brochure in 1994/95, the response has been significant.



- 69 -
iii. ('umhersoIle PrI)pOsal Rc'vicwv Proccdures: Sinice the ARF Secretariat hiad
MMIa(dltIatc CxpCr-iclCC alld li11itc(d cxposure to the operations of a fund(
like tlle ARF, approval of rcsearcil proposals took longer than usual,
particularly at the carly stages of operationalization. These were later
silliplificed.
2.8.7   Io, ilornation and D)otciumenitation:
Viariotis li mitations,  hampcde the introdluction of improved informiation and
dociuinwnlitationl services in the course of NALRP implementation. These included:
*  ina(leqtate funding, wlvich curtailed
+ the subscriptionl of essentiat journals and other services;
+ procurement of cquipment, hard+software, books, etc;
I tralilning of I DU stain,
4 cxpalnsion of information and docunieiitationi scrvices to the zonal
cenitrcs.
*  poor staffing, particulalrly at the zonal centres: the ban on new cmploynient
in 1iC Civil Scrvicc, hais compounded the probe1m trmcincio(louisly;
2.8.8  ,ihik:agcs aud Partnerships
The major limitation in the linkage arena was lack of commitment by the various
bo(dies/ institutions, resulting in some agreements not being fully implemented.
The otiler major bottleneck was (and still is) poor funding or facilitation. Most
m1eCti;ngs could not be held due to inadequate funding.
Conflicting intcrests, and tihe wish to "hoist in(lividual flags" particularly amionigst
soIm1e of  the donor agencies, had hampered linkages and close collaboration
(lurinig implementation of various activities. However, the regular DRT-Donor
consultations has helped to reduce this problem to a large extent.
I,ack of cicar policy guidiclinics on collaborative linkages was also noted to be a
stumblinig block in effective linkages.



- 70 -
3.   IFORWARDI) OumlOOI(
By and large, the implementation of NALRP went on smoothly. The project
review conducted in December 1997, gave a positive assessment of project
performance as depicted in the preceeding clhapters.
Thie overall future objective is to maintain and accelerate the momentum realized
thirough NALRP in supporting the generation of appropriate technology to
increase efficiency and productivity of crop and livestock production systems witlh
SLustainablC leSC of natural rcsources, fOcLIsilng Onl tile needs of tlhe smilallholdcr
sector.
Based on the succCssful implcmcnitation of NALRP, the Govemnment of Tanzalnia
has cnmbarked on a follow-up lplase - 'l'anzalia Agricultural Rescarchi Project
(TARP 11), witlh support sougLlt fromll botlh bilateral and multilateral dollor
agencics.
Already TARP II has been endorsed by the World Bank/IDA and various bilateral
dlonors suchi as Netherlands, Ireland (Irishaid), Norway (NORAD), Sweden
(SIDA), European Union, United Kingdom (DFID) and Germany (GTZ) have
made pledges to support it. The World Bank/IDA supported TARP II became
effective in June 1998, and is now under implementation.
-A total of US $ 21.8 million has been approved by the World Bank/IDA for a
five-year period and another US $ 23.1 million has been pledged by the various
bilateral doonors mentioncd above. Some of the bilateral funds lhave already beenl
confirmlcd and project componlent implementation has already started in various
zonal centres.
More importantly, the Ministry of Agricultural and Coo-operatives has given
agricultural research and extension first priority status in resource allocation. This
meians the problem of inalequate cc)unterpart fuincilig for various donior-ai(lcd
projects will be reduced to a large extent.
The key words in future  will remain "client-oriented and demand-driven
research" and it will be the duty of the DRT to ensure that these noble words are
translated into actions with measurable outputs.



- 71 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page I nt5
STATIJS OF IMIPLEMENTATION OF NALRP COMPONENTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS:
1989- 1997
(Rcfer SAR pp 16 - 22 anWd DCA 1970-TA pp 13 - 14).
S/No             Conmijonent                                       Achlevenieiits
I    a)  Establishmntent of NeIv      A  nil'icd agricolititral rescarch scrvicc was established by dissolving thc
Organialional Strietuire    rcscarch parastatals 'T'ARO, T'ALIRO and IJyole Agricullural Centrc andl
for National Agrictilttiral   merging thelii into a singlc unit - the Department of Rcsearch and
Researchl                   Trainmig ([)RT) tin(ler the Ministry of AgricLilture and Cooperalives
(MoA('). 'I'hc [)R' was further subdivided into seven zonal rcscarch
cenlres (each comprising a lead station and several associated stations
based 0n agro-ccological considerations.
a)  Improvement of              At the national lcvel, a Commissioner for Research and Training (CRT),
Organization anid          reporting directly to the Principal Secretary, MoAC was appointed to
Nianagement                 head the consolidated DRT.  The CRT is asisted by five Assistant
Commissioners (Acs) responsible for crop research, livestock Research
factor (special) programs, farming systems research and training.
A broadly based National Agricultural Rescarch Council (NARC) was
established to advice the Minister of Agriculture on matters reiated to
agricultiral rescarch in line with macro-economic policics.
At the onal level, a Zonal Director for Research and Training (ZDRT).
reporting directly to the CRT, was appointed to head cach of the seven
ones.   onal Advisory  Committees (ZACs) and  Zonal Technical
Committees (ZTCs) were establishcd in each zone to advice the ZDRT
and to ensure that local adaptive rcsearch is demand-driven and is in line
with the prevailing onal socio-cconomic cnvironment.
2.    i'rlorilizltion,   of  Research   A priority sttinig excicise was undertaken between If 19/91 in ordic mI
Aclivities.                    have a rcscarch agenda based on national goals and objectives.  A
national Research Mastcrplan was produced and endorsed by the
tiovernmcnt and the donor community in 1992.
In oicder to be more focused, and address zonal probieiis more squareiv.
zonal research priorities were prepared in 1994/95.
3.    Improvement of the Research
Infrastructure:
a)  I'rovision   of  Essential  The World Bank/IDA  support enabled the procurement of transport
Research Facilities        facilitics (71 4WD vehicles, 48 motorcycles, and 25 bicycles) farm
maciihicry and equipment (15 tractors and three water pumps), office
equipmcnt (25 computers, II typewritcrs, four photocopicrs, four telce
machiics, ctc) and various laboratory equipment and materials.
a)  Rwhabilitation of           Niie key research stations, namely Uyole, Ilonga, Ifakara, Ttiribi,
Researclt Stations and      Kifyulilo, Mlingano, Marikitanda, Tengeru  and  Nalicndele  wcrc
Construction of DR'I' IIQ   rehabilitated whereby essential amenitics such as watcr and electriciry
Building                    were r' stored and staff houses, offices and laboratories were repaired.
A nrc, DR'F headquarters building was constructed in Dar Es Salaam
In addition to thc above, six stations (ADRI Temeke, Kongwa, Ukiriguru.
I.RC 'irtnga, Mpwapwa and TTRI 'T'anga) are being rehabilitatc(ignilncr
lie A fP l It 'Cnoponent.



- 72 -
A'll'ATACIIMEN'r I
Page 2 of 5
S/No          Comnponent                                  Achicveniients
b) Rehabilitationi of       Nine key research stations, namely Uyole, Ilonga, Ifakara, Tumbi,
Research Stations and    Kifyulilo, Mlingano, Marikitanda, Tengeru and Naliendele were
Construction of DRT     rehabilitated whereby essential amenities such as water and
IIQ Building            electricity were restored and staff houses, offices and laboratories
were repaired.
A  new  DRT  headquarters  building  was  constnicted  in
l)ar Es Salaamn.
In addition to the above, six stations (ADRI Temeke, Kongwa,
Ukiriguru, LR.C Tanga, Mpwapwa and TTRI Tanga) are being
reliabilitated under the AfDB Component.
4.   lImprovemtienlt of Skills for  A  total of 713 DRT staff (690 under IDA  and 23 unlder
ltescrclh Staff             AD)B/ADF) were earmarked for short-term training in researchi
nmetlhodology, research maniagemiienit, scientific writing, priority
setting,  financial  management  procurement  of  goods,
computeriation, etc.  As of December 1997, some 661 staff
(639 under IDA and 22 under ADB/ADF have attended the short
courses.
In addition, 19 DRT staff out of 21 received postgraduate training
(3 PhD and 15 MSc and IBSc, under AFDB support.
See also Attachment V.
5.   Establishment of an         The ARF was established in collaborative and contract research
Agricultural Research       between the DRT and other allied institutions, especially the
Fund (ARF)                  universities.  Seed money, amounting to US $ 621,000, was
contributed by the Government of Tanania, World Bank/IDA and
AfDB.  As of December 1997, a total of 92 research proposals
lhave been processed by the ARF Secretariat, out of wlhichi 19 have
already been approved, 29 are being recasted by proposers and 36
are under peer review. Only 8 proposals were rejected. See also
Attachment VII.
6.   a)  Sutpport to Priority    Cotton, Roots an(i tubers and farming systems research (FSR)
Researchi Activities    were ideiitilied as priority research programs prior to thle
preparationl of [lic ltescarch Masterplan in 1990/91.  Wlhilc
ADi3/ADI7 lhas covered the cotton and roots/tubers research
programs in terms of staff training, research infrastrucutre (mainly
at Ukiriguru Station), the Netherlands has supported FSR to the
tune of US $ 2.7 million. Areas covered under the FSR Program
included on-farm research (mainly in Lake Zone, FSR
methodology, staff training (9 MSc and I PhD) and various short
courses.



- 73 -
A'Tl'A('IIMNEN'T' I
Page 3 of'S
b)  Other Researelc
Achievemilenits           Durinlg the period between 1989 and 1997, the following are some
of the researcih achievemenits recorded in DRT:
Wheat:
Foui imilproved( varieties (Tausi. Juhtidi, Kware and Viri) were released and adopted by 80-100% of large
scale (armers (27,000 ha) and 25-30'%/ of small scale farmers (25,000 ha).
R?hizoclonia sohlai, which causes the patcliy stuntilig of wheat (PSW) was identified after 23 yeals of
research.
Five fungicides (Folictir 250EC, Folicur combi, Alto coinbi, Impact and Granit) were recommended and
approved for registration.
Ba1rlcv:
' Iliee improved Ihigih yieldinig varieties (Kibo, .Subira anid 8579) were released and adopted 100% by large
d rid sirallI scale flamers in teie Nor(tlCIii Zonlc.
Rlice:
'Three improved varicties/lines ( Dak.83, L.ine 85 and Line 88 were released and adopted by farmers in
Monlogrgor rt''g i ll.
Sorglium arid Mlillet:
I'lhree varieties (Okoa, Sliibe and I'ato) have been released and are on on-farn testing.
Beans:
Seveni superior bean varieties were released and adopted by farmers in the Northern, Lake and Southern
Hliglilands zones. These are Lyamungu 90, Uyole 90, Uyole 94, Uyole 96, Ilomba and Njano.
Four herbici(les (Galex 50EC, Stomp 500EC, Flex and Fusilade) were recommended for weed control in
bean lieklds.
Maize:
Suitable varieties/hybrids for lowland( mid altitide zones were released and adopted by 70% of the farniers
Tlhcse are Staha, Kito, llonga composite, TMV- I and CG 4142.
Four maize streak tolerant open pollinated varieties (Kito-ST, Kalumani-ST, TUCA-ST and Kilima %%ete
releasedl.
Nitrogeni application, weeding frequency and planting patterns bave been adopted and practiced by 4V'..
84% and( 99%X. of the farmers respectively.
Banana:
A methodology of mass trapping of banana weevils was developed and 10% of farmers in Kagera region
have a(loptedl it.
Oilseeds:
'Itree varieties of sesame released and were adopted by 10% of the farmers in Nachingwea and I indi
districts.
I Jorticulture:
Five orange varieties were recommended for semi arid central zone (Matombo sweet, Washington na' 'i
Valencia late, Java and Mediterranean sweet).
Five varieties of grape vines (MakutuIpora red, Clhenin blane, 31ack rose, Ruby seedless and Ar *- -
lavallac) were recommended for semi arid central zone.



- 74 -
AT'IACHMENT I
Page 4 of S
CocoIuIt:
Improved small scale oil processing techlniques (rotary graters, ram press and bridge press) were developed
and introduced in Coast and Dar Es Salaam regions.
Agroforestrv:
flnrce Australian Acacia spp. (A. crosx(sWap(, A. leptpcarpa antd A. jullifera) were identifled as promising
for Tabora conditions for fuelwood for tobacco curing.
Tobacco:
A flue cured tobacco cultivar (P1)4) was relcased in 1994 and is n7ow widely grown in Tabora region.
Coffee:
At least six clones with high level of resistance to Coffee Berry Disease (CBD) and Leaf Rust were isolated
under multilocation test in the Northern and Southern Highlands Zone.
Appropriate coffee/banana intercropping pattems were developed and adopted by 25% of the farmers
replanting coffee in Kagera Region.
Cotton:
The cotton variety (UK9 I) were released and has been adopted by majority of farners in the Lake Zone.
Use of scouting technique to minimize use of insecticides is widely used by cotton farmers.
A new sprayer (ULVA+) was recommended for dual application of oil and water based pesticides on
cotton and it has been adopted by over 50% of the farmers.
Suearcane:
Five varieties of the East African Series have been developed and arc used for commiercial production in
Northern Tanzania (TPC Moshi).
Three soil applied insecticides (Mocap IOG, Miral lOG and Suscon Blue IOG) were identified and
recommended for the control of sugarcane white grubs.
Cashew:
Cost effective control methods against Powdery Mildew Disease (PMD) were identified and adopted by
about 15% of the farmers in the Southern zone.
A tip wedge technique for vegetative propagation of cashew was recommnended and adopted by
approximately 15% of the farmers in the Southern zone.
Pvrethrim:
Three improved pyrethrum  clones were released, multiplied and handed to Pyrethnim  Board for
distribution to farmers. They are widely grown in the Southern Highlands zone (Mbeya Rural, Makete and
Njombe districts).
Cattle:
The dual-purpose Mpwapwa breed together with improved management packages have been introduced to
local farmers in Dodoma region.
A suitable dairy cattle adapted for the hot and humid environment of the Coastal areas of Tanzania was
developed.



- 75 -
A'T"rACHMEN'I' 
Page S */t5
A locally fo;mulated  mineral pre-mix (Bavslick) lor livestock was developed and supplied to farmers in
Tlanga, Morogoro and I)ar Ils Salaam regiolns.
Water mtclon as a souIcc of watcr for livestock was intro(duced antd adopted by farmers in Dodoma antd
Singi(la Regions.
A forage and lpastuec genchank (53 lIrage accessions) was estahlishcd oni-stalion.
Aniiiial Tracetion:
live prctent (5%) of tlhe farmers usinig Oxcie in Mbcya and ( Mbozi districts are weediing miaizc withi (lc
recomlimellded ainim al drawn cullivalors.
iPlost-h1 r vest 'I'ccililology:
Thriee types of improved storage structures for maize (Burnt bricks, Bamboo and twig work baskets as well
as rolle(l grass-plastered cylindrical baskets) have been widely adopted by small holders in Iringa, Mbeya
an(i Rukwa rcgions.
Wa,,, M



- 76 -
ATTACHEMENT II
Page I of I
(A): Rationalized Institutes and Centres of the DRT
Zone                          linst(liites                                    Centres
Eastern        Ilonga, Mlingano, liakara, Kibaha, Mikochcni     LRC-Tanga, Dakawa
Ccntral        Mpwapwa                                          Kongwa, Hombolo, Makutupora
Westem        Tumbi 
S/Highlands    Uvoic                                            Ugano
Lake           Ukiriguru, Maruku
Northem        Selian, Lyaniungu, Tengeru                       West Kilimanjaro*
Southern       Nalicndclc
National       ADRI                                             TTRI Tanga
*To be under the Tobacco Industry, butt wvill be responsiblefor agro-forestry researcht
**Livestock Gcrrnplasm Mainitcnauice Cenltre (LGMC) to enterfor livestock researchi natiolnwide
B: Other DRT Centres anid Stations and thieir Future Roles:
Zonc        Station             Major                                   Remarks
Continodity/Activity
Dakawa         Ricc                   To bc handcd-ovcr to NAFCO by 1998
Muhcza         Horticulture          Taken-over by Extension Services (for horticultural activities)
_ in 1997
Eastcrn     Mpiji          Horticulture                                     - do -
Marikitanda    Tea                    Taken-over by the Tea Industry as part of TRIT in July 1996
Westem      Scatondale     Tobacco                To be handed-over to Tobacco Industry by 1998
Mtanila        Tobacco                To be handed-over to Tobacco Industry by 1998
Southem     Mtopwa         Food crops             Trial Site*
Nachingwea    Food crops, Cashew      Field Station**
Ndengo         Coffee                 Trial Site
Suluti         Food Crops, Pastures   Trial Site
Southem     Mitalula       Coffce                 Field Station
i lighlarnds
Mbimba         Cofrcc                 Ficld Station
Igcri          I'yrctliruLI1, I'otatocs    Trial Sitc (undcr Pyrcthrum Board)
Southern    Ismani         Maize, Oilseeds         Field Station
Ilighlands
(contd)
Nkundi         Whcat Maize            Ficld Station
Kifyulilo      Tea                    To bc taken over by the Tea Industry as part of TRIT.
Lake        Bwanga         Cotton                 Trial Site
Mwamala        Cotton                 Closed in eariy 1996
Cotton seed production activities will be taken-over by Meatu
District Dev. Programme.
Lubaga         Cotton                 Closed in early 1996 and handed over to Shinyanga Municipal
Council.
Kanziga        Cotton                 Trial site. Also to be used for cotton seed multiplication
Mwanhala       Cotton Tobacco         Field Station under Tumbi, Western Zone
Kituntu        Food crops            C(losed in 1995
Malya          Livestock              Closed in 1995
Northern    Miwaleni       Food crops              Trial site.
______________________ __TPRI to usc it as open quarantine station.
Notes.
*Tril Site:      Epeprintenial sit witlwout infrastructrre or petC'rnanent staff Researchers carry-onit
crperiments/trials an the site antd r etur, to their respective stations.
**F'eldStation,:    Resenrch activlities are planned at trnd slations and carried-out herefollowilig
insirurtionsfirom lead scientists.
Administered by a Fieldl Officer (Diplomn lioltikr) with 1-2 assistants.
lIfrastruritur linitiied tofew houses to arcomodate the staff muentioned above as ivell as
a smiall ofJire amld store. 771ere coold be a vehiele or molorcycle
34



- 77 -
ATTACHMIENT III
pagc I (o I
Statis on the Plrocurementof Goods: IDA Component December 1997*
Items          Goods I'laiiiied    Goods Delivered as of 31 Deceimiber
1989-1997                        1997
4WD Vehicles                71                   71                 100/'
M ilil)LUSCS                 I                    I                 I 00%)
Motorcycle                  48                   48                 1 0(%
lticycles                   25                   25                 1 00%
Radiocalls                   8                    8                 100%
Water Pumps                  3                    3                 100%
|(cnerators                  I                    I                 100%
FIractor anld               1 5                  15                 100%
implemenits
|lrmcks                      2                    2                 100%
Desk Top Pub.                1                    1                 100%
Facility           _                 _
Laser Printer                4                    4                 100%
Pliotocopier                 4                    4                 100%
Laboratory                 Misc.               Misc.                100%
l'(1lIipm11c1t   _I                    I__
('omputcrs                  25                   25                 100%
Workshop Tools             Misc.               Misc.                100%
'ITelephionie                 I                   I                 100%
Switclhboard_
Telex Machine                4                    4                 100%
Fax Machine                  1                                      100%
Typewriters                  1 1                                    100%
*Note: During the same period, ADB/ADFfunds were used to procure thefollowing items /)Y
internalional shopping: 44-4 WD vehicles, 33 mnotorcycles. 67 bicycles, 3 generator.s,
mi.scellaneous ojfice/lahoratory equi/)pnent, chenmicals ani( reagents a(td (vorkshop tools.
Also, in stupporting the National Forming Systems Research Project (77.189/014, the Nethecrlanrd
Government assisted in procurement of 8 vehicles, 4 motorcycles, 6 computers and various other
equipment.



- 78 -
ATTACIIMENT IV
Page I of 2
The Scope of Works and Implementation Status up to December 1997.
Stope (or Works                           Status
Contract No.     Station          Major          Origini.       Revised       Budget                             Funding
Coverage    commodities/a        Scope          Scope         est.USS     start     Compl.       Source
ctivities                                     ('000)     Date        Date
KRP             DRT-HQ         HQ               N/HQ  -1      N/HQ       -1   645.00      Sept'94    Dec'97      IDA
0004/1171/91 V    Building                  _
Kifyulilo     Tea              R/rest hse -I   NIGD A hse -I
N/GdA hse--  N/w.shop   -I
2             N/Lab       -I   331.15
N/GdB hse-
2
N/w.shed
N/W.shop
KRP                                            N/Lab
0()05/4/95/1W  W
Uyoic         Pyrcthrum        Compicle      R/olliee block              Jan'96     Dec'96       IDA
Irish potatoes  GdB.hse -8
Il'as.hcalns     N/Gd Bi hse-
Maizc,hortic.    2
Dairy/beef       N/GdA hse-                     236.42
2
Farm road
R/Officc                   _
llonga        Maize,coton      R/GdA hse-   R/GD A hse -3
Rice,legumes     5             N/GD B lise -3
Sorgh/millets    R/GdB  -10   R/water syst
N/Gd B  -3   N/GD C hse -I   357.63
N/Gd C  -2
___________ _  _______R/water syst
KRP             Ifakara        Rice             RJGd A  -2   R/Gd A hse -2                Jan'96     Mar.97      IDA
0005/3/94/91 W                                  R/Gd B  -10   RlGd B hse -5
Rlgodown      R/water syst
R/Workshop   R/office block    237.27
N/Gd A -
2
N/Gd B   -2
Mlingano      Soils            R/workshop    R/workshop
Sisal            R/office      R/office block
R/Gd B  -3   RIOd B hse -3
N/Gd B  -4   N/Gd B hse -2   170.68
RAM/(( A  -2   R/(id A hsc -I   _
KRI'            Ma'kitanda    Ica              N/Gd BI  -2   N/Gd B hse -2               Jan'96     Apr.98       IDA
0005/1/92/91 W                                  N/Gd C  -3   N/Gd C hse -I
N/store       N/store          147.79
Tengeru       1-lorticulture   R/Gd A  -2   R/Gd A hse -1
RNGd B   -I   N/Gd B hse -1   48.03
N/Gd B   -I
_______                         N/Gd C   -I
KRP             Naliendele     Cashew,Oil       R/waTe hse    R/ware hse
0005/5/97/91W                  seeds,Ground     R/Gd A   -3   R/Gd A hse -3               Jan'96     Mar.97       IDA
nuts             R/Gd B   -3                    73.46



- 79 -
Attachlnilit IV
Page 2 of2
Scope of Works                               Status
Contlact iNo.      Station         lMlajor           Origin.          Revised        Budget      Start      Compl.    Funding
(overage      comnm,odities/       Scope            Scope         est.USs      Date        Date        Source
aetivities          __                       __ ('000)           __ _          _ _
KRP HI'           luhi.            lbhacco         R/ol'iice        R/ollice hlock
(K)0l5/2/1)3/91 W                Agrofirestry      R/G(i A   -5    R/Gd A hse -5                 Jan'96     May'98       IDA
N/GdI A   -3    N/Gd ll11 C -2
N/t-d B   -2    N/Gd A hse -I   240.49           .
I.I'RI         A niial brcedg.   R/lamrn&AI      R/ftrm&AI
Nfpwapwa       Animal nLItritn.   N/Gd 13 -2     unit
Pasture/lorages   R/cold room     N/Gd B hsc -4
K/diary nllit   I/cold room
R/ollice        R/diary U(it
N/pasttire &    R/oll-ice block
KRI'                                               Iomage lah      N/pasttirc &      373.00
it)t)5i7/91/91 A                                   N/Gd A   -3    forage lab
N/Gd C   -2
1*1M          (Grazig riais      N/Gd A   - I    R/olfice bllock              Jan'98      Expected    APIVADF
Kobngwa        I'asi e studies    N/fid It  -j    Kt/d A lise -2                         I)cc4)X
N/(id l   -2                      114.00
It/otlice &
Mtorte
I Ikiuigolru   Coltton           N/G di A   -8    R/GdI A hsc -5
Roots &  'tuliers   N/id 13 -10    N/Gd A hse -10
Sorgh/Millet      R/Gd A   -5     NlGd B hse -10
KRl'                                               R/Cid it  -5     N/workshop                              Expected
0005(1/97/91 A                                     N/worlkshop      N/Lab                        Jan'98     Dec'98       AIDB/ADF
N/Lab           N/exp.building    1325.9
N/exp build.    N/office
N/office
ADRI            Animal           N/(Gd A  -3   I/Labsh   -3
'I'emckc       diseases          N/G;d 13  -i    R/olfice block
N/Gdc   -I                        37131
IVLabs  -3
(Compl FMD
laboratory
IK/oorfce
KRI'              IRC            I.ivestock        R/Gd A   -2    R/(id A hsc -2                 Jan'98     ExpIspted    Al1.AI*
ft)5/8/4)/9/91A    'I'anga       research          R/Gd 11  -2      R/farm                                   Vec'98
/;Cd ('  -6    blil(ling          109.00
N/( id I  -1    K/RGd t lisc -2
N/Gd ('  -I
R/farm.build
T1'R1         *lFsetse andi      N/fid II -1
'Ianga        'I'rypallollmiasi  N/( Ci (   -2
researchi         R/labs                            7X.00
Iegeeed:
,V  New  e works
R = Rehaibilitntion nor/ks



- 80 -
ATTACHMENT V
Pege 1 of 2
Suitmnary of Slort an,dld,ong-'rerm  Trainting: 1991 - 1997
A: Long-Term Training: (ADB/ADF only)
Research Plrogramme       PhD level      NI.ScI/NPhil    B.Sc level     No. Trained:
__________  clvel                     Dec. 97
Colt(ol                        1               6             1                7
Roots anid TIulbers           2                5                              6
Rnminant Meat and Milk         1               2                              3
Animal Diseases                                3                              3
TOTAL                         4                1}            I               19*
*1 Ph1D (rools/lubers) (and I MSc (notioil) to complete studies by Sep?t. '98
1B: Short Term Training: (IDA+ADB/ADF)
Fieldl/Discipline         Target Groups          Venue/Location   IPlanned    Actual
to be      trained
trained
I. Research Management  Assistant Commissioners,    ESAMI/Mananga/         80        70
Dev.                  Zonal Directors,            Bradford/USA/
Programme Co ordinators,   DSM
Senior Research officers and
Heads of research stations
2. Staff Performance                - do-            ESAMI                 65         65
Appraisal
3. Team Building                    - do             ESAMI/Dsm             21         17
4. Research MIS                     - do-            ESAMI/ISNAR            34        34
5.Computers in                      - do-            Mananga/Dsm            8         8
Mau1agcnicnt
6. Management of staff              - do-            UK                     2          2
training and dev.
7. INFORM, Monitoring   Assistant Commissioners,    KARI/lndial            30         25
and Evaluation        Zonal Directors,            ESAMI/ISNAR/S
Heads of research stations,   UA
Project Planning & Eval.
Unit,
Information and Doc. Unit                   .
8. CD-ROM/SIS            Information and Doc. Unit   UK/Poland/ltaly        2          2
9. Research Methods and   Research officers          SUA -BACAS             80        76
Experimental Design    Senior Research olilcers
10.Scientific Report               -do-             SUA/ISNAR              80         76
writing and reviewing        _
11. PC/SAS/MSTAT                    -do-            SUA - BACAS            40         31
12. Hlelminthology                 -do-             United Kingdom          I '
13. Tropical Pest Mgt.             -do-             United Kingdom          3         2
14. Cattle Emlbryo                 -do-             ILCA/Tanzania/          2         2
transler                                         United Kingdom
15. Plant pathology                 -do-            United Kingdom    1_I _
16. Indigenous Resource             -do-            USA                     I
Dev. for fertilizer
sector



- 81 -
ATFACIINIENT V
Page 2 of 2
Fiell/l)iscipline         'I'arget Groups        Venue/Location   P'lanned    Actual
to be      trained
trained
17. Study Tours                    -do-                                    10         6
I1. Advanced 'lea                  -do-             DSM/Silsoe             7         7
T'esting                     ___        .        College U.K.                 _
19. Planning, Monitoring   Project Planning Ol'ticers  UK/USA/lndia/       37        37
and Evaluationi        Mid-level Managers (Hqts)   Morogoro
Reseatcli Farm Managers
201. Research Farm Mgt.            -do-             Mlingano               16         16
21 .'Tissue ClIt(ure     Technical and( field olticers  11TA                I
(fliolecliniology)
22.Pasture Seed                    -do-             Netherlands             I
Production
23. Microbiology                    -do-            United Kingdom          I  I
24. Laboratory                     -do-             University of DSM      25        25
Equipment
Mainlellnancc
25.Agric.Fungi                     -do-             United Kingdom          I         I
Identification                                                ,
26. f inancial           Finance and Accounis Stafl   USA/ESAMI/            3         3
Management                                       Kenya
and Disbursement
27. Accounting                      -do-            Arusha/Morogoro        25        25
Procedtires and
'l'ccnlliiques                                 ___. -
28. IProcuircmenlt Mgt and  Procuremlient Ol'l'icers  ESAMI/USA/UK         11         I I
Conttract Negotiations
29. Supplies system                 -do-            DSM-DRT HQ             15         15
30. Human Resource Mgt.  Manpower Mgt. Ofticers     ESAMI                   2
Development           Office Supervisors
Registry Officers
Personal Assistants
31. Clerical Skills                -do-             Civil Service -        15         14
Tanzania
32. Personl Asst. course            -do-            Mananga                 2         I
33. WP and Lotus 1-2-3              -do-            DSM                    29         26
34. Office Attendants              -do-             Civil Service -        II         I I
Skills                                           Tanzania
35. P'revenitive Vehicle  Drivers,      Mechanics,  National Inst. of      26         26
Maintenance           Workshop Teclnicians       Transport (NIT)
36. Vehicle Repair                 -do-             NIT/Mlingano           13         13
37. Workshop                        -do-            Dar Tech/              12         12
Technology and                                   Mlingano
Management
TOTAL                                                                      713       661



- 82 -
ATTACIIMENT VI
Page I of I
Disbursement of Project Funds
A: II)A Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual: 1989 - 1997
FY       FY    FY      FY       FY      FY    I  FY |  FY
89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   961977
Appraisal estimate         0.800  1.600   1.600   1.400   1.300   0.800   0.600   0.200
Actual                     0.261  0.502   1.008   0.427   0.723   1.090   2.503   1.785
Actual as % of estimate    32.57  31.35   62.98   30.52   55.59  136.25  417.14  892.28
Date of final Disbursement 31.12.97
B: Disbursement of Local funds (Tshs.000)*: 1989/90-1996/97.
Financial Year                              Budget Type and                  Total
Allocation                 Disbursed
Developmiienit     Recurrent
1989190          Approved           53,941.00         640,572.62        694,513.62  .4
Actual           53,941.00        423,434.27         477,375.27  A>
1990/91          Approved           45,010.00         518,528.16        563,538.16
Actual           45,010.00        518,528.16       e563,538.16  $
1991/92          Approved           122,807.00        536,298.36       j6S9,105364
Actual          122,807.00        455,761.65       5
1992/93          Approved          230,500.00         496,758.58      `727,258.58-.*
Actual          230,500.00        496,758.58       - 727,258.58
1993/94          Approved           199,923.00        447,717.74       ,647,640.74
Actual          145,593.00        444,179.31       ,589,772.31
1994/95          Approved           514,772.00        431,872.62        946,644.62
Actual          140,204.00        431,324.45         571,528.45
1995/96           Approved          400,000.00        431,074.90         831,074.9
Actual           91,000.00         137,221.46        228,221.46
1996/97          Approved           800,000.00        582,310.30        1,382,310.3
*Include both developmnent and recurrent fundsfor r esear ch related activities but excludes personnel
emoluments.



- 83 -
ATTACHMENT VII
Page I of 2
List of Approved ARF Projects: Status of December 1997
Project Title         Project Code      Start Date   Dura-    Total Funds    Total Disbursed up
Number                       tion      Approved in    to Dec. 1997 US S
(US$)
I.  Imprllovemelint of         (AD)           Marchi       3 yrs             20,588              3,960.40
Riuminanlt Mcat        ARF/CR/93/003    1994
tliou,glil ilillroduction
(o, fodd(e Icrecs iln
Central zone
2.  Incorporation of Rust       (ADF)         January       3 yrs             23,709             20,424.00
RZesistance Genes into   ARF/CR/93/010    1995
Commercial Beall
(I'liascotlus vulgaris
I..)
3.  Improvement of              (ADF)         March        3 yrs              22,892             16,182.20
biological Nitrogen    ARF/CRJ94/016   1995
rixation of Pliaseolus
heans in four major
growing areas in
1Tanzania.
4.  i valuatioti or locally    (ADF)          September   2 yrs               12,436             10,773.00
available feedl        ARFICR/94/020    1995
resources for dairy
cattle in T'anga
region.                               _
5.  Investigltion of            (AD[7)        Novemilber   3 yrs              20,795             15,072.50
problem 'Y' oin        ARIFC/('R93/028    1995
1lascoi"s beasls ill
Northen 'I'Tanzania
6.  Integrated striga           (ADF)         August        3 yrs             11,200              2,933.20
control in maize for   ARF/CR194/025    1996
small scale farmers in
Tanzania.
7.  Development and             (ADF)         August        3 yrs             30,000              7,627.00
testing of feeding     ARFICR195/042-  1996
packages for
improved dairy cattle
under smal1holder
farmning systemiis in
seini-ari(l areas of
C'entrl 'anzania
8.  Effect of Sulphur           (IDA)         October      3 yrs              2000                10,815.00
dusting on soil         ARF/RG/96/003    1996
acidification and
performance of Cashew
and Cashcw intercrops
growing in Southem
'I'anzania
9.  UJtilization of Rock        (IDA)         July, 1994    3 yrs             20,000              19,460.00
Plllosphate with FYM in    ARF/RG/96/002
Cowpea-Maize
Cropping sequence in
Acid Tropical soils.



- 84 -
A'I"rACIIMENT VIl
l'oge 2 of 2
I'roject 'I'itlc     I'roject Code    Start Date   Dura-    I'otal Funids        lTotal
Number                     tion      Approved        Disbursed up to
Dec. 1997
(US $)            (US $)
10. Integrated Pest           (1DA)        January     4 yrs            29,600             19,773.00
Management (IPM)      ARF/CR/96/008   1995
for the Control of
Bean Foliage Beetles,
Ootheca spp.
Coleoptera:
chrysomelidac in
Tanzaniia.
11. Iilianceinient ot         (II)A)       Marcih      3 yrs             29,531            9,590.00
Plhosphorus from      ARF/CRI94/015   1995
Panda and Minjingu
phosplhate Rocks by
Rcactioll witl Pyrite____________ __                      _____ __               _
12. IiidligineoCUs            (I )A)       Scpteiiber   VI yrs          25,851            24,643.45
muIltipurpose trees  AR Fl/CRG/94/018  1995
and slhrbs survey in
Mkata plains.
13. .Evaluation of the       (IDA)        August       3 yrs            20,474             4,935.00
indigenous finger     ARF/CR/95/031   1996
millet (Eleusine
corocana:Gaetrin)
cultivars collected
14. On - farm                 (IDA)        August      3 yrs            28,683             16,372.40
verification of newly    ARF/CR/95/032   1996
developed
components of [lie
cotton and cowpea
intercropping
technology.
15. Control of               (ADF)         August,     3 yrs            30,000                  000
Astripomea            ARF/CR195/039   1997
hyscanoides: a
noxious weed in
pastures of Central
Tanzania
16. Characterization and      (IDA)        June, 1997   3 yrs           29,000                 o 00
evaluation of the     ARF/CR195/036
potential of various
crop residues to
supply nutrients to
crops for sustainable
system.                                                                                 __
TOTAL                                                                   374,759            1S''  1



- 85 -
ATTACHMENT VIII
lPage I of I
Crop Levies and Estimates of Income Generated per year
(Tshs '000)*
Institution    Researchl      Funding arrangement       Contribution
Programme                                    per year
1TCB        Colfee         0. 1 25% cess                       1 16,600
T1TA        Tea            2.5% cess                          598,516
TCMB        Cotton         1.65 Shs per Kg of seed            715,036
cotton sold
CBT         Cashew         Annual contribution                 60,000
TBL         Barley         Annual contribution                  10,000
SUDECO    Sugarcane        2 Shs per Kg sold                  399,386
TTMB        Tobacco        0.5 Shs per Kg of leaf tobacco       18,272
sold
TSA         Sisal          Annual contribution                  13,500
TOTAL                                                        1,931,3 10
*Estimates of 1996. Exchange rate / US $ = Tshs. 600.



I



- 87 -
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1970-TA)
APPENDIX C
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION






- 89 -
Appendix C
Supplemental Information
1.       Organisational Charts
1.1 Structure of the Department of Research and Training Head Office at Project
Completion (December 1997)
1.2 Zonal Organisation Structure at Project Completion (December 1997)
1.3 Organisation Structure for the Directorate of Research and Development
(December 1998)
2.       Supplemental Tables
2.1 Rationalisation of Research Institutes, Centres and Stations
2.2 DRT Scientific Staff Distribution by Discipline at December 1997
2.3 GoT Recurrent Fund Contribution to DRT from 1987/88 to 1997/98
2.4 Industrial Crop Cess Funding for 1996/97 and 1997/98
2.5 Bank Annual Staff Inputs and Costs



Chart 1.1 Structure of the Department of Research and Training Head Office at Project Completion (Dccember 1t'#
MINISTER
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| Principal Seretry ]
AC                                            AC                                           sHed of                                     Head of
ACop ReerAietCkRsac                       Famidng Systems               ACiu                 Specia              Accounitant           lsalhnetinforma ton and                       Research and
Crops Research       Lvestock ResearchJ          Research                                     Programmes                                                        Documentation        Planning Evaluation
- Research policy & priorities            - FSR                  - Management of        - Research policy       - Maintenance of    - Personnel           - Library services       - Development &
methods                training institutes    & priorities           vote book                                                           recurrent
- Coordination of national programmes                                                                                               - Staff'welfare       - Infornation &            budgeting
- Diagnostic           - In-service           -Coordination of       - Payments                                   documentation
- Crop & iHvestock research monitoring     surveys                training                agroforestry &                            - Registry                                     - Research
soil & water         - Cashiering                                                         progranuing
- Supervision of       - Manpower              management                                 - Transport
zonal FSR              planning                                                                                                        - Project
teams                                                                                                                                    coordination
- Monitoring &
evaluation
Zonal Directors



Chart 1.2. Zonal Organisation Structure at Project Completion (December 1997j
CRT
(Commissloner for Research and Training)
|           ~~ZEC('|
L  (Zonal Executive Commditte)     r
ZDRT
(Zona l Drector for Research & Tratining)
Station Manager
-Establshment/Perosmel Officer
-Accounts & Fhinane Officer
-Supplies Officer
Infornat-on/Doc-entatlon/wbrary
ZRC                             ~~~~~~~~PRINCIPA                          Officers in charge
ZRC            C ;              v                      |       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~InsfftutestStatfons
F     (Zonvi Researc h Coordinator)ThngF                                                              IsttStos
ZTC             (2)
|(Zonal Technical Conmmittee)|
Head                                       Head                                           Head              (3)                       Head
Crop Research                             Livestock Research                            Spedal Programmes                             Socio-economics
- Coordination of zonal research agenda    - Coordination of zonal research agenda        - Coordination of zonal research agenda     - Technical back-stopping on
on plant breeding, agronomy,                on animal breeding, animal health,            on soils, agroforestry, agric. engineering, etc.  on fanning systems approach
plant protection, etc.                      animal nutrition, etc.                                                                   - Management Information Systems (MIS)
- Economics
- Planning, monitoring & evaluation
- Impact/adopting studies, etc.
(1) ZEC is responsiblefor generalpoliy guidance on zonal research agenda, resource mobihizauon, aflocation and controL
(2) ZTC is responsiblefor reviewing and endorsing the research project reports and new proposals.
(3) Special Programmes: cross-cutting research programmes.



- 92 -
Chart 1.3 Organisation Structure for the Directorate of Research and Development
(December 1998)
DRDl
(Director of Research and Development)
Accounts Unit
Planning Unit
Administration Unit
Procuremest Unit
Information & Documentation Unit
CR0 - Crop Research   I     |   CRO - Livestock Research               CRO- Special Prog. Research
4- ZEC
Zonal Research Officers
ZEC -_
Administration Unit
Accounts Unit
Farm Management Unit
Information & Documentation Unit-
Head Crop            Head Livestock             Head Special           H Nead Socio-economic    Officer in charge
Research               Research           Research Programmes                Research                   ARls
II                                  I                                        I
Prog. Leaders          Prog. Leaders             Prog. Leaders               Prog. Leaders
- Maize                 - BeefCattle                 Agric. Engineer                Econ./FSADev.
- Rice                 -Dairy Cattle             -Agroforesty                   PM & E
- Sorglhum & Millet    -Small Ruminants              Soil & Waler Mtg.
-Root & Tubers            Non Ruminants
- Horticulture            Pastures & Forages
- Grain Legumes
-Cotton
-etc.
1/ The Department ofResearch and Training was created in 1989. In 1998, The Training Section
was separated and DRT renamed as The Directorate ofResearch and Development.



Table 2.1 Rationalisation of Research Institutes, Centres and Stations
ZONE        -        LOCATION    STATUS    STATUS         MAJOR COMMODITY -                      ('(%I I)t S Fr  - ram %R[.
1989        1998            PROGRAMMES
EASTERN        I        Ilonga      Institute    Institute   food crops, cotton           Zonal Research Centre llcadquarters (Kulosa)
2       Ifakara      Institute    Institute   rice
3       Kibaha       Institute    Institute   sugar cane, roots & tubers
4      Mikocheni    Institute    Institute   coconut
5       Tanga        Centre       Centre   livestock breeding, pasture
6      Mlingano      Institute    Institute   soil and sisal              National Soils Services, Sub-zonal headquarters (Tanga)
7       Dakawa       Station      Station    rice, maize, horticulture    To be handed over to NAFCO, but still debated
8       Muheza       Station    CLOSED    (horticulture)                  handed over to extension services
9        Mpiji       Station     CLOSED    (horticulture)                 handed over to extension services
10    Matikitanda    Station    Institute   tea                           Transferred to the tea industry in 1996 (TRIT)
11     Chambezi      Station    Field Station  coconut                    under ARI Mikocheni
CENTRAL        12     Mpwapwa       Institute    Centre   livestock breeding, pasture     Zonal Research Centre Headquarters
13     Kongwa        Centre       Centre    livestock breeding, pasture
14     Hombolo       Station      Centre    sorghum and millets
15    Makutopora    Institute     Centre    viticulture, food crops
WESTERN        16       Tumbi       Institute    Institute   tobacco, food crops, agro-forestry  Zonal Research Centre Headquarters
17      Urambo       Station    CLOSED    (tobacco)
SOUTHERN       18     Naliendele    Institute    Institute   cashew nut, oilseeds, food crops   Zonal Research Centre Headquarters (Mtwara)
19     Mtopwa        Station    Trial Site  food crops
20    Nachingwea     Station    Field Station  food crops, cashew nut
NORTHERN    21          Selian      Institute    Institute   food crop, wheat and barley  Zonal Research Centre Headquarters (Arusha)
22     Lyamungu      Institute    Institute   coffee
23      Tengeru      Institute    Institute   horticulture
24     Miwaleni      Station     CLOSED    (food crops)                   Open Quarantine Station for TPRI (parastatal)
25   West Kilimanj.   Centre      Centre   livestock breeding             also Nat. Livestock Germplasm Maintenance Centre
LAKE           26      Ukiruguru    Institute    Institute   food crops, cotton           Zonal Research Centre Headquarters (Mwanza)
27      Maruku       Institute    Institute   tea, coffee
28      Bwanga       Station     Trial Site   cotton
29     Mwamala       Station     CLOSED  I (cotton)                       handed over to Miatu District for cotton seed production.



Table 2.1 Rationalisation of Research lnstittites. Centres And Station%
ZONE             LOCATION    STATUS    STATUS              MAJOR COMMODITY -                             ll \
1989        1998            PROGRAMMES
LAKE (Ctnd)   30        Lubaga       Station     CLOSED    (cotton)                        handed o%cr to Shinmanga Mlunicipal ( ounit I in
31      Kanziga      Station     Trial Site   cotton                       also used for cotton seed production
32     Mwanhala      Station    Field Station  cotton, tobacco             field station under Tumbi (West Zone)
33      Kituntu      Station     CLOSED    (food crops)                    closed in 1995
34       Malya       Station     CLOSED    (livestock)                     closed in 1995; some staff and livestock moved to ZRC
35      Mabuki      Trial Site    CLOSED    (livestock)
36      Kasulu       Trial Site    CLOSED    (food crops)
SOUTHERN        37       Uyole       Institute    Institute   food crops, livestock        Zonal Research Centre Headquarters (Mbeya)
HIGHLANDS   38           Ugano        Centre      Centre    coffee
39      Ndengo        Station    Trial Site   coffee, food crops
40       Suluti       Station    Trial Site  food crops, pasture
41      Mitalula      Station    Field Station  food crops, coffee
42      Mbimba        Station    Field Station  food crops
43       Igeri        Station    Trial Site   potatoes, pyrethrum          to be handed over to the Pyrethrum Board
44      Ismani        Station    Trial Site  food crops, oil seeds
45      Nkundi        Station    Trial Site  food crops (wheat, maize)
46      Kifyulilo    Institute    Institute   tea, food crops
47    Seatondale     Station    CLOSED    (tobacco)                       to be handed over to tobacco industry
| 48  IChunya (mtanila)   Station  CLOSED    (tobacco)                     to be handed over to tobacco industry
OTHERS         49       Temeke       Institute    Institute    Livestock diseases          National Animal Disease Research Institute (ADRI)
50      Temeke      headquarters  headquarters  N/A
51       Tanga       Institute    Institute    Trypanosomiasis control     Tanzania Trypanosomiasis Research Institute (TTRI)
--    TPRI/Arusha    Institute    Institute   pesticide research/quarantine  Parastatal, not part of DRD
Notes:    TRIAL SITES: experimental sites without infrastructure or permanent staff. Researchers reside in their respective stations.
FIELD STATION: trials/experiments carried out on Field Stations are planned at lead stations; administered by a field officer (Diploma
holder) with 1-2 assistants. Infrastructure is limited to a few houses, a small office, store and one vehicle or motorcycle.



- 95 -
Table 2.2 DRT Scientific Staff Distribution by Discipline at December 1997
Veterinary/Livestock and Pasture             61        17%
Economists/Sociologists                      26         8%
Soils                                        52        15%
Crop Breeders                                43        12%
Agronomy                                     89        26%
Others                                       77        22%
Total                                       348       100%
Source: INFORMlDRD -December 1998
Table 2.3 GoT Recurrent Fund Contribution to Research
In Actual and Constant Values T. Shs Millions
Financial Year              Actual Values                Constant Values
1987/88 (SAR Ref. Year)               454.2                          454.2
1989/90                     477.4                          372.6
1990/91                     563.5                          334.7
1991/92                     578.6                          260.8
1993/94                     589.8                          172.2
1994/95                     571.5                           128.7
1995/96                     228.2                           39.2
1996/97                      58.6                             8.1
1997/98                      153.2                           18.0
Total annual release from recurrent and development budgets for recurrent expenditure
excluding salaries and allowances (Source: DRD).
Source: actual DRD - constant values based on IMF Consumer Price Index.



Table 2.4 Industrial Crop Cess Funding
Institution   Research       Cess Funding Arrangement    Contribution per year     Cess Funding Arrangement    Cess Release to Research    Organisational
Programme                                        (T Shs '000)                                     I       (T Shs '000)          Status in 1998
1996/97                                                 1997/98
TCB         Coffee     0.125% cess                           116,600         0.25% of value of exports                142,000               Statutory
TTA          Tea       2.5% cess                             598,516         1.5%                                     330,567               Statutory
TCMB         Cotton     1.65 Shs per Kg of seed cotton        715,036         Shs 1.6 per Kg seed cotton               288,000               Statutory
sold
CBT         Cashew     Annual contribution                    60,000         1% FOB for Research & Develop.           200,000               Statutory
TBL         Barley     Annual contribution                    10,000         -                                        20,000                Voluntary
SUDECO       Sugarcane   2 Shs per Kg sold                     399,386          2 Shs per Kg sugar ex-factory          . 60,000            MOU Sugar Act
under Prep.
TTMB        Tobacco    0.5 Shs per Kg of leaf tobacco sold     18,272         .                                         NIL              MOU under Prep.
TSA          Sisal     Annual contribution                    13,500                                                   NIL              MOU under Prep.
Total                                                        1,931,310                                                1,040,567
Exchange rate estimate 1 US$ = T Sh 600 for 1996/97.                             Exchange rate estimate I US$ = T Sh 650 for 1997/98.
Source: DRD.



- 97 -
Table 2.5 Bank Annual Staff Inputs and Costs
Year     I      Activity             sws                 USD '000
1985            LENP                    4.7                 10.6
1986            LENP                   25.8                 62.4
1987         LENP/LENA                 54.7                128.0
1988         LENA/LENN                 59.3                117.0
1989          LENN/SPN                 32.3                 39.0
1990             SPN                   32.7                 92.7
1991             SPN                   30.4                 88.0
1992             SPN                   17.9                 56.5
1993             SPN                   47.8                101.5
1994             SPN                   35.0                 76.6
1995             SPN                   21.7                 50.3
1996             SPN                   17.4                 45.1
1997             SPN                    9.1                 19.6
1998           SPN/ICR                  4.7                 15.9
1999             ICR                    9.0 (plan)          28.6 (plan)
Total                                 393.5                 913.7
Source: WB Management Information System.






- 99 -
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1970-TA)
APPENDIX D
MAP






Location of Research Institutes, Centres and Stations
MarUku0LO                                                                                                                                    MM A1JA
SUKOBA
-Kuntu      LAKE VICTORIA      EUSOMANYA
Kanziga                                                                                                  . .   . .
*Ukiruguru5Malya                          Tengeruz                                 (   CONGO\;g -,* ' ' 'e'g'u'     c    Indian
J  LX  ,,{_~t   Mabuhd                            "I   Kilimaniaro 0                                    A N ZA N I A    ttaa
03Larmu gu 
SelianO    MONI
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /  Lubaga                                                   mo ;Ij*Ml0  '--''--- Ocean
SHINYANGA OMwamala         L Eysi     Manyaa        M.waleni
S \> ~~~~~~~~~WanhalaA,                                                                                                                 1  zMA j0$  
r 0Kasutu   \             S I N G I D A9}                                              '   MarikanMBda                                     Z
KIGOMA            }/ Urambo 0      OTABR                         _                                  Mlinganot3< 
<1|1(                         (      Tmi                           f                       f          Muheza 0 j   GAP
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*       \  \  1   XJ MakutoPra  %Jf   --_  >/   5\                  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ZONES                    O
\HomboloM     0                  Cha                                   (D  LAKE ZONE
M          ~~Dakawa\\ -MP pu(Mkchn                            NORTHERN ZONE
\              Kib(hlonga   a ibah  R ES SALAAM      WESTERN ZONE
MPOROGORO   *0e  
CENTRAL ZONE
INDIAN                 EASTERNZONE
\\ *Nk          Rukwi   Oi\                   IRINGA Seatondale ) g < ({) SOUTHERN HIGHLANDS ZONE
S\%  BUMBAWANGA<      (0)                  /              ACI If akara     /<                                             SOUTHERN ZONE
{,) \\\\     z t!    ~~~Chunya (Mtanmla) 0tttt J   /
(   MB yA^AO e  i                                                    O CEAN            *  Zonal Research Centre Headquaters
M__M bimba-                                                                                         [3{  <  )  |:| Institute, Centre, Staton
A  Downgraded to Trial Site or Field Station
International Bound ry                                                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Closed
tF   Country Capital                             A fS   tgeri                                            ~ LINDiA              M  Privatized
- --R Region Boundaries                                  @                                                                 MT/WARA&
Regional Cal      A Sulub               Nachingwea A    _   r-TWRA             *  Para-statal (TPRI)
A Ndengo                                    -       Naliendele@             DRD Headquarters
Agricuftural Research Zones                    0: \SONGEA                                          mt           /    <;
Boundaries ~ ~      ~                 tUgano                                   
0    50   100  150  200 Km
TC1199-O5WTANZ99-1



