Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
&GJZ I 9 07ca -TF
Report No. 6926-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
July 25, 1988
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restrcted distribudon and may be used by redplents only In the pedonmauce of
their oficld dudes. Its contents may not othendse be disdosed without Wodd Bank autoiatidon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 m T.Sh-90.O0 _
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF        -      African Development Fund
FSR        -      Farming Systems Research
GOT        -      Government of Tanzania
MALD       -      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
RTD        -      Research and Training Department
SPAAR      -      Special Program for African Agricultural Research
TALIRO     -      Tanzania Livestock Research Organization
TARO       -      Tanzania Agricultural Research Organization
TPRI       -      Tropical Pesticides Research Institute
UAC        -      Uyole Agricultural Centre
I/  At Februerf 1,   jU



TANZANIA                   O  OFCAL US OnLY
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ...        ...............................  i-ii
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND      *      ................................    1
A. Project Genesis  ........  . ............. * 1
B.  The Economy ....... ..................                    1
C.  The Agriculture Sector .........................          2
D. IDAts Iliwolvement, Sectoral Strategy and the
Proposed Project .......4...........,                    4
E. The Role of Other Donors .........................    5
II. THE AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH SYSTEM                7
A* Institutions              7.................        ...    7
B. Policy Guidance, Control and Coordination        ..........    9
C.  Research Program Planning andBudgeting .............. 10
D.  Pesearch Funding ......      .............................   10
E. Major Constraints and Shortcomings ................  11
-tt. THE PROJECT                                                  15
A. Rationale and ProjefAct Objectives *-..*7..-.-..-.-...    15
B.  Summary Description    ................................   15
C.  Detailed Features      ............       ......         16
D.  Cost Estimates .....                                     22
B.  Project Financing .....................   23
FP  Procurement ..........0. ...... ..                       24
G3  Disbursements           ....................    26
B. Accounts and Audits             ........                  27
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                       29
A.  Organization and Management   ........................   29
B. Research Master Plan .......................... ..   30
C.  Research/Extension Linkages   ........................   31
D. Linkages with International and Regional
Organizations and with Sokoine University of
Agriculture .                                            32
Note:  This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Tanzania in May 1987, comprising Messrs. A. Seth (IDA and      ,
mission leader), M. Creek (FAO/CP), and D. C. M. Corbett, J. A.
Chettoe, H. Idris and A. Leacock (Consultants), and the findings of
a follow-up mission comprising Messrs. G. Stern (IDA) and J. A.
Chettoe (Consultant) that visited Tanzania in February 1988.
This document has a restrited distdbution and may be used by recipients only in the performe
of their oftltal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discklsed without World Bank authorization.



PagLe No.
B. Donor Coordination ...........................    32
Fe Annual Work Program    ... ...32.e......   32
G.  Mid-Term Project Review *....*..................   33
H. Reporting and Monitoring  .........................   33
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS *      ...................    34
A.  Benefits and Justification ..* ...................     34
B* Risks ....*       .............*..................*.    35
C. Environmental Effects ....................    35
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........   36
ANNEXES
1.  Present Agricultural Research System - Organization
Charts
2.  Research Services Consolidation
3. Organization and Management Consultancy - Terms of
Reference  ...                  ...       ....
4.  Research Master Plan - Terms of Reference
5. Summary of Training to be fanded under the First
Project Phase ................. ..
6* Cost Tables ...........       ...... *
7. Disbursement Schedule
8.  Documents Available in the Project Files
9.  Implementation Schedule ........................
WAPS    IBRD No. 20654       Rainfall
IBRD No. 20655      Potential Land Use
IBRD No. 20656      Research Institutes and Centers



- i -
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LI MSTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Government of Tanzania
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
Amount:           SDR 6.0 million (US$8.3 million)
Terms:            Standard IDA Terms with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:      ADF Loan                  US$8.2 million
Netherlands Grant         US$2.7 million
-United Kingdoam GrantV/  US$2.9 million
West German Grant 1/      US$1.6 million
1/ Includes US$0.75 million contribution, as.SPAAR member
for financing preparation of the Master Plan.
Project           The project would be the first phase of a long-term
Description:      program to strengthen Tanzanian research.  The five
research agencies would be consolidated, and planning,
management, financial control and monitoring activities
improved. Concurrently a Master Plan would be drawn up
identifying priorities for a sustainable research
program. Cotton, root and tuber and farming systems
research would be Improved in the early stages, while a
research fund would finance other priority programs
identified by the Master Plan. There would also be funds
for early purchase of urgently needed vehicles, equipmect
and materials, to sustain the ongoing research program.
Civil works, technical assistance, training, and foreign
recurrent costs would alsG be financed. The
participation of the Special Program for African
Agricultural Research (SPAAR) should ensure close donor
coordination by agreement to tie the research program to
the Master Plan
Benefit & Risks:  There would be major institution building benefits that
should revitalize the research effort and build a
sustainable research system, sensitive to national
priorities. Strengthening of key research programs, and
closer research-extension-farmer linkages should
translate into technology messages to help farmers
increase production and raise their incomes. Main risks
are problems with institutional changes, inadequate
funding and lack of adoption of research recommendations
by farmers. Technical assistance would facilitate the
institutional changes. To maintain adequate
funding, assurances were obtained that present budget
provisions would be maintained in real terms. Farming
systems research and attention to close research-
extension-farmer linkages should help to ensure program
relevance; while economic dialogue and IDA lending
program focus on incentives, inputs and marketing, should
foster farmer uptake of econottically useful messages.



- ii -
gEtimated Costs:
Local    Forei       Total
A. Research Programs                                     …i------U    ml--
Roots and Tuber Research                          0.5       1.3        1.8
Cotton Research                                   0.6       2.4        3.0
Farming Systems Research                         0.6        1.9        2.5
Sub-total Research Programs  /              1.6        5.7        7.3
B. Organization and Management 3/                    1.7       5.6        7.3
C. Unallocated Research Fund                         0.8       4.0        4.8
D. Vehicles, Eqspment & Materials Fund               -          3.0       3.0
Total Baseline Cost 2/                      4.1       18.3       22.3
Physical Contingencies                            0.2       0.2        ^.4
Price Contingencies                              0.6        2.0        2.6
Total Project Cost 1/  /20.5                                    25.3
_           -         m
Financing Plan:
IDA 3/                                               1.9       6.4        8.3
ADF                                                  0.9       7.3        8.2
Netherlands                                          0.4       2.3        2.7
United Kingdom               4/                      -         2.9        2.9
Federal 'epublic of Germany 4/                       -          1.6       1.6
Government                                           1.6       -          1.6
Total                                       4.8       20.5      25.3
Estimated Disbursements f7om IDA Credit:
89     90      91     92     93-   94       95      96
--- - ---- -  -US$ millioni---
Annual               0.8    1.6    1.6    1.4    1.3    0.8    0.6    0.2
Cumulative           0.8    2.4    4.0    5.4    6.7    7.5    8.1    8.3
I7Tsaxes and duties are negligible.
2/ Minor inconsistencies in totals and sub-total due to rounding to nearest
US$0.1 million.
3/ Includes a PPF of US$0.5 million.
4/ Includes US$0.75 million contribution as SPMAR member for preparing
Master Plan.



TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Is SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Prole     u Genesis
1.01      Discussions concerning Bank assistance for agricultural research
in Tanzania took place in the late 19709. They were discontinued due to
differences between the Government and the Bank over fragmentation of
agricultural services, including the research services. When crops and
livestock were brought under one ministry again in 1984 and the prospects
for consolidating crops and livestock research looked promising, the Bank
resume& its discussions with the Government of Tanzania (GOT) on a possible
.esearch project. A Rant project ideutification mission visited Tanzania
in July/August 1985. A follow up mission in February 1986 cleared the way
for project preparation. This was initiated in mid 1986 and was carried
out by the Government assisted by consultants. Bank missions that visited
Tanzania in September and November 1986, and February 1987 monitored
progress. The project is based on the resultant Report "Tanzania
Agricultural and Livestock Research Project", dated April 14, 1987, the
findings of a Bank Appraisal Nission that visited Tanzania during May/June
1987, and discussions between the Government and a follow-up mission in
February 1988. The Government has indicated that it is committed to
eliminating the multiplicity of research organizations and introducing a
consolidated structure. The proposed Project, which would be the first
phase of a longer term program, is aimed primarily at putting a new
organizational structure in place, training staff and developing a capacity
for research planning and administration.
B. The Economy
1.02      At Independence in 1961, Tanzania was one of the poorest
countries in the world, almost solely dependent on subsistence agriculture
and a few estate crops, with a very small industrial base and a limited
number of educated and trained personnel. In the first six years after
Indenendence Tanzania relied largely on market forces and stressed the
objectives of growth in per capita income and national self-sufficiency in
skilled manpower. However, with the enunciation of the Arusha Declaration
in 1967, development policy changed and was directed towards establishing a
socialist society, with greater emphasis on broad-based rural development,
domestic self-reliance and social services. To accomplish these goals, the
Arusha Declaration emphasized that the State, with guidance from the Party,
should play the leading role, especially in the reform and creation of
appropriate institutions. This led in the late 19609 and early 19709 to
the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and finance, the
formation of Ujamaa (communal) villages, and the replacement of farmers
cooperatives with State run crop marketing authorities responsible for all
aspects of collection, processing and marketing of Tanzania's main export
crops. The Government also embarked upon an ambitious program of
industrialization based upon import substitution and the creation of heavy
industries.



-2-
1.03      With the advent of these policies, the Tanzanian economy entered
a period of economic decline from which it is just now starting to
recover. While the overall downturn in the economy was caused in part by a
series of external factois including successive droughts, the rapid
increase in oil prices, the collapse of the East African Community and the
war with Uganda, the crisis also drew attention to some of the underlying
weaknesses in the management of the economy. These included inadequate
incentives and resources for the agricultural sector, an over-ambitious and
uneconomic industrialization strategy, excessive administrative controls
over economic activity, and the continued growth in the s±ze of the public
sector without due regard to the limited financial and administrative
capacity available. Between 1978 and 1982, GDP grew by only 0.4% per
annum, with agricultural and industrial output declining by 2.9X and 16.6%
per annum respectively. Inflation accelerated, the fiscal situation
deteriorated sharply after 1979, with deficits averaging about 16X of GDP,
and exports and imports both declined significantly. By 1982 import
voltmes were 32X below the level in 1978 and 241 below the level of the
early 1970s. Throughout the early 1980s the economy continued to decline
despite the introduction of various adjustment programs.
1.04      It was not until June 1986, with the introduction of the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP), that the reform measures became strong enough to
begin to have a positive ;ipact. Reforms aimed at improving the
functioning of the Tanzanian economy have been introduced in the areas of
exchange rate policy, foreign exchange allocation, trade policy, prices,
fiscal and monetary policies, interest rates, as well as in the key sectors
of agriculture, industry and transport. In support of these measures an 18
month standby arrangement of SDR64.2 million was approved by the IMF on
August 28, 1986 and a multi-sector rehabilitation credit was approved by
the Bank on November 20, 1986, which incorporated financing from IDA and
the African Facility (about US$100 million), and attracted Special Joint
Financing (about US$50 million) by the Federal Republic of Germany, the
Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
C.  .egctureSector
Structure
1.05      Agriculture is the largest single sector of the Tanzanian
economy. It provides 40-50% of GNP, 752 of exports, and over 80X of
employment.  The main cash crops are coffee, cotton, sisal, tobacco, tea,
cashew nut, pyrethrum and cloves, and the principal food crops are maize,
sorghum and millet, rice, grain legumes, cassava, banana, wheat and
sugarcane. Smallholder production (over 831 of total holdings) dominates
the sector. Private estate production is important in tee and sisal, and
government estates contribute significantly to rice, wheat, sisal, sugar
and meat production.   Some areas of Tanzania have relatively low rainfall
and are, therefore, subject to drought. However, in many areas of reliable
rainfall, overall population density remains low (19 per sq. km), and good
agricultural land is underutilized. Only about 6 million ha out of 39
million ha are under cultivation. There is, therefore, considerable
potential for agricultural development.



-3-
Performance
1.06      The decade following Independence saw a rapid expansion of
smallholder export crops as the volume of marketed coffee, cotton, cashew
and tobacco doubled between 1960/61 and 1966/67, and by 1973/74 doubled
again for cashew and tobacco. Self-sufficiency in food-grain production
was also achieved by the late 1960s.
1.07      However, the adoption of several new Government policies in the
late 1960s (including villagization, dissolution of cooperatives,
establishment of parastatal export and food crop marketing monopolies,
closure of private shops, confinement1/ of agricultural inputs, and
encouragement of heavy industry at the expense of smallholder agriculture)
led to a steep decline in food and export crop production throughout the
1970s and into the current decade. Between 1978 and 1985, real
agricultural GDP grew at only 1.0X per annum - well below the corresponding
population growth rate of 3.4% p.a. Detween 1976/77 and 1985/86, the
production of major export crops declined by 8% per annum, and agricultural
export revenues declined by 571 from a peak of US$426.1 million in 1977 to
iS$184.1 million in 1985, which had a devastating effect on the overall
economy.
Government Policy and Recent Strategy
1.08      The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy
remain food self-sufficiency and improving national nutrition standards;
restoring agricultural exports to former peaks and then expanding them, and
improving rural living standards. To attain these objectives and to
reverse the disappointing performance of recent years, the Government has,
over the past two years, introduced major reforms in agricultural
strategy. These form part of the Economic Recovery Program (para 1.04).
In addition to a major devaluation and continuing real adjustments in the
exchange rate that have benefitted the producers of export crops, the
Government has: (a) increased producer prices in real terms; (b) widened
quality margins; (c) completely liberalized the marketing of foodgrains;
(d) re-established cooperatives to take over from the parastatals the
responsibilities for farm-level crop purchases; (e) liberalized the
marketing of minor export crops; (f) permitted several private estates and
cooperatives to export directly instead of through marketing boards; (g)
privatized several previously expropriated coffee, tea and sisal estates;
and (h) started to "deconfine" input supplies and distribution. The
liberalization of food grain marketing has already led to dramatic
increases in supply and subsequent reduction in consumer prices, and the
improvement in export crop production incentives, allied to favorable
weather, has almost restored cotton production to its former peak.
1.09      Despite the policy changes thera remain some critical bottlenecks
to the recovery of agricultural production and exports. These include:
(1) the lack of mediur- and long-term foreign exchange to finance the
rehabilitation of agricultural enterprises; (Ui) the inadequate capability
of the banking system to channel agricultural term and seasonal lending to
the sector; (iii) the serious deterioration of supporting research and
extension services; (iv) severe rural transport constraints; (v) persisting
1/ Confinement to a few agencies.



- 4 -
shortages of critical inputs, implements, and consumer goods; (vi) problems
of the land tenure system which tend to discourage long-term private
investment in land and employment of farm labor;, and (vii) severe problems
of marketing agricultural produce. The Governaent realizes that in the
short-term, pricing, marketing and inputs policy changes will have the
greatest impact on agricultural production. However, to sustain and expand
production over the longer term, attention must be given to overcoming the
remaining constraints. The IDA. lending program (para 1.13), of which this
project is a key component (pars 1.14), is designed to help the Government
in that task.
D. IDA's Involvement, Sectoral Strategy and the Proposed Project
1.10      Between Independence and the late 1970s agricultural projects,
including integrated rural development programs, accounted for about 30% of
the Bank Group's lending program. Assistance was provided for 18
agricultural and 3 rural development projects consisting of US$240 million
in IDA credits and US$37 million in IBRD loans. By the end of 1980, it was
apparent that: (a) production was falling well short of projections that
had been based on the early growth period; and (b) project implementation
problems were common to the whole agricultural sector, rather than being
project-specific. Accordingly, the Bank Group-stopped most agricultural
project lending, pending a careful reassessment of the sector. After 1980,
lending in the agricultural sector was substantially curtailed and was
either for specific balance of payments support (Export Rehabilitation
Program, US$50 million under Credit 1133-TA), or Technical Assistance
(Third agd Fourth Technical Assistance Projects, US$12 million under Credit
1206-TA and US$10 million under Credit 1524-TA).
1.11      The emphasis in previous IDA agricultural assistance efforts in
Tanzania was on crop-specific projects around agricultural parastatals and
regional development authorities. IDA's support for agricultural credit
was channelled through the Cooperative and Rural Development Bank. In line
with Government policy, few of these projects provided financial assistance
to private entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector. Many of these
projects are now recognized by the Government and IDA as having been
unsuccessful. The principal reasons for this record of failure include
lack of recurrent imports due to the shortage of foreign exchange,
unfavorable macroeconomic and sectoral policies, and mismanagement and
politicization of parastatals. In addition, the problems of insufficient
funds and managerial deficlencies have been ubiquitous, affecting all
agricultural projects. Lack of trained technical staff has also been a
frequent problem. Disbursements have lagged and significant sums have been
cancelled upon the closing of projects. The agricultural portfolio has
been considerably reduced as a result of the four-year lending hiatus and
only eight projects are currently under execution, two of which have been
totally redesigned. Due to the closing of several problem projects, the
redesign and streamlining of others and recent changes in the overall
policy environment (para. 1.08), the project portfolio is beginning to show
substantial improvement.
1.12      IDA's operational strategy in agriculture over this difficult
period has and continues to be two-pronged, based on a small core program
of institutional support for the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development (MALD), which would prepare the ground for policy changes, and



-3-
a discretionary program which is more contingent on the implementation of
broad-based economic policy changes.
1.13      The core program has included support for the basic agricultural
services such as research, extension, market analysis and planning. The
latter two areas are already being supported through ongoing technical
assistance projects. The research project, is the subject of this report,
while the proposed exteutsion project is under appraisal. With the
Government's recent changes in policy, the discretionary aspect of the
Bank's strategy has become active. A Multisector Rehabilitation Credit
(Cr.1741-TA) supporting, among other things, agricultural marketing
reforms, was approved in November 1986 and a supplementary credit to this
was approved in January 1988. In addition, an Agricultural Export
Rehabilitation Credit, supporting agricultural export enterprises, was
approved recently (March 1988).
1.14      The proposed project, which is part of the core program, clearly
complements the macro-economic objectives of the Government's recovery
program. The recovery program is predicated on a significant and sustained
increase in agricultural exports, which account for most of the country's
foreign exchange earnings. While recent improvements in farmer incentives
brought about by various pricing and marketing reforms, have done much to
stimulate export produetion, sustaining this growth on a permanent basis,
requires the steady flow of new and improved technology to the farmers.
Such technology is not reaching farmers as can be gauged from the paucity
of new recommendations for introducing improved technology or for dealing
with pests and diseaseF that decimate agricultural produce in Tanzania.
Building up a research capability in Tanzania to deal with these problems
is a long-term process. The proposed project constitutes the initial
phase.
E. The Role of Other Donors
1.15      Several other donors support the agricultural sector in
Tanzania. The European Development Fund has been supporting coffee
production and processing since the late 1970s while thc UK and Netherlands
Governments are helping to rehabilitate the cotton industry.  The UK
Government also assists with recurrent "non-confined" imports and through
the Commonwealth Development Corporation may )o'9 to rehabilitate selected
coffee estates. The World Food Program has for s-everal years helped the
recovery of the sisal industry through its Food for Work Program.
1.16      Focussing more specifically on research there is quite a long
list of past and ongoing donors assistance, shown below:



6
Donor                               Research Subiect
EEC                                 Coffee
Nordic Countries                   Uyole Agricultural Center
(para 2.05) Regional Research
USA                                 Farming System*, Maize
Netherlands                         Soil, Farming Systems
UK                                  Oil Seeds, Stored Products
Canada                              Wheat
Italy                              Cashewauts
Federal German Republic             Coconuts
North Korea                         Rice
Sweden                              Livestock Feeding, Pasture
Improvement
International Development           Livestock Farming Systems
Research Center
1.17      The above list may not be all inclusive, but it does illustrate
the diversity of donor assistance.  Most donors have become increasingly
concerned over the piecemeal nature of their assistance and the lack of
planning, identification cf priorities and coordination.  It is, therefore,
opportune that the proposed research project is going ahead at a time of
growing international cooperation of donors who are helping to improve
agricultural and livestock research in Africa. The Special Program for
African Agricultural Research (SPAAR), closely linked to the Consultative
Group on International Agricultural Research, has been established for that
purpose. The Bank plays a leading role in the Special Program, and
mmbership includes major bilateral and ru 'Iti-lateral donors active in
Africa. Tanzania has been selected as the first country for which SPAAR
embers would provide resources for agricultural and livestock research and
coordinate assistance in line with a master plan (para 3.09) to be prepared
with funds from SPAAR members as part of this Project.



-7-
II. THE AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH SYSTEM
A. Institutions
2.01      The history of agricultural and livestock research in Taptania
dates back to the early years of this century. Since then a considerable
research capacity has bcen developed, comprising mainly four parastatal
institutes--the Tanzania Agricultural Research Organization (TARO), the
Tanzania Livestock Research Organization (TALIRO), the Uyole Agricultural
Centre ('WAC) and the Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI).
Collectively they have a staff of 3000 including almost 300 scientists, and
operate a network of about 16 institutes and over 30 associated research
centers or substations, that cover the main areas of crop and livestock
production (Map IBRD No. 20656). Some research is also conducted by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD). Sokoine
University of Agriculture (SUA) and private estates.
The Tanzania Aricultural Research Or anization and Tanzania Livestock
Research Organization
2.02      The Tanzania Agk-cultural Research Organization (TARO) is the
largest of the institutes followed by the Tanzanian Livestock Research
Organization (TALIRO). TARO has t1e national mandate for basic and
applied crops, soils and farming systems research. TALIRO has a similar
mandate for all forms of livestock research. Both institutes were
established from research departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Ministry of Livestock Development respectively, in 1980; before these
Ministries were amalgamated. Both TARO and TALIRO are semi-autonomous
parastatals, each headed by a Director General, responsible through their
respective councils, answering to MALD. There is no linkage between these
two institutes or with the other research institutes or agencies.
2.03      TARO employs 1573 staff of which 133 are professionals including
74 with graduate degrees. It operates 19 programs, (17 on crops, 1 on
soils and 1 on farming systems research) on 11 institutes and about 17
centers located in different agro-ecological zones (tiformation as of early
1987). Its research covers the main grain, pulses and oil seeds, and the
major cash crops such as cotton, coffee, tea, tobacco, cashewnuts and sugar
cane. Relatively few recommendations to farmers have resulted from its
work in recent years, but this may be partly due to lack of communication
with the extension service.
2.04      TALIRO has a staff of 884 including 78 professionals of whom 41
have graduate degrees. It operates five programs (aniaal breeding,
nutrition, range and pasture development, vaccine production and pest and
disease control) on three research institutes and ten centers. In addition
to research, TALIRO gives animal disease diagnostic services to the
Veterinary Department and produces vaccines on a very small scale. For
instance, the six veterinary investigation centers associated with the
Animal Diseases Research Institute are primarily prov'ding animal health
services. Their return to MALD veterinary services is uader
consideration. Similarly, whether vaccine production is best situated in a
research organization also requires consideration. These two issues would
be addressed during preparation of the Research Master Plan (para 3.09).



-8-
Thus most of TALIRO's work is concerned with animal health delivery
services. More focus on farmers' problems is considered to be desirable
for the research program.
Uyole Agricultural Center MUCC)
2.05      Established in 1976, UAC serves as a regionally-based ('zonal')
agricultural research and training center ln the Southern Highlands. Its
Director reports to a Board of Directors, answerable to the Minister for
Agriculture. It is the only fully integrated research institution in
Tanzania, with 13 programs--8 for crops, 4 for livestock and 1 dealing with
soils-and has a training institute for diploma and certificate level
students. The Center has about 509 staff (August 1986) including 43
professionals (29 with graduate degrees). External donors (now the
linnish Government) have supported UAC strongly since 1968, both with
technical and financial assistance. UAC has been more successful than the
other three parastatals in reaching farmers, helped by its extension
section, which produces extension leaflets and similar publications.  UAC
can be regarded as a useful model for regional adaptive research which
could be replicated. The experiment of combining training and research has
also worked well.
Tropical Pesticides Research Institute JTPRI)
2.06      TPRIs in the past a regional research center under the former
East African Community, was established in 1979 to undertake (a) research
into pesticide behavior and human, animal and crop pest entomology; (b)
service functions related to plant quarantine and the national herbarium;
and (c) pesticide regulation and control. It is also headed by a Director
responsible to a Board of Directors, answerable to the Ministry of
Agriculture. In addition to the main research station at Arusha, there are
two substations. TPRI has about 235 employees (March 1987) of whom 32 were
professionals (21 with graduate degrees). About 14 research programs had
been planned, but operations are restricted by funding constraints. TPRI
has not assigned priorities for its limited resources. Consequently,
research output has been disappointing. In any case, TPRI is primarily a
service and regulating agency and, as such, its future place in the
research program should be studied.
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development
2.07      The Directorate of Research and Training in the Ministry apart
from a policy formulating, program coordinating and monitoring role (para
2.11), conducts rice research at the Dakawa Agro-Scientific Research
Centre, fruit and vegetable research at the Tengeru Research and Training
Institute, and coconut research under the National Coconut Development
Program. Staff engaged in this research numbered 180 including 51
professionals.
Sokoine University of Agriculture
2.08      This University was created in 1984 from the former Faculty of
Agriculture, Forestry and Veterinary Science of the University of
Dar-es-Salaam, and is at Morogoro (200 km west of Dar-es-Salaam). About
140 BSc, 30 MSc and 9 PhD students in agriculture and livestock graduate



-9-
annually. Members of the teaching staff of about 193 lecturers and
professors conduct joint research programs with scientists from the
research institutions and collaborate with extension and research
organizations to provide practical research and field experience for
students. However, the impact of these joint programs has so far been
limited. Sokoine University maintains the largest technical agricultural
library in the country containing some 50,000 books and 1,150 periodicals
and journals.
Other Research Organizations
2.09      Some research is undertaken outside the four parastatals, MALD
and SUA, by other parastatal organizations and private estates,
particularly for plantation crops. In addition, while not undertaking
research themselves, several crop production parastatals provide financial
support to TARO for specific programs. These include the Tanzania Coffee
Marketing Board; Tanzania Tea Authority; Tanzania Tobacco Processing and
Marketing Board; Tanzania Cashewaut Marketing Board; and Tanzania Cotton
Marketing Board.
B. Policy Guidance, Control and Coordination
2.10      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development is
responsible for policy guidance, coordination and budgeting control for all
agricultural and livestock research, except that done by the University and
the private sector. While the four parastatals have virtual autonomy,
their councils or boards are answerable to the Minister for Agriculture and
Livestock Development. Three departments of the Ministry are mainly
involved--the Directorate of Research and Training, the Directorate of
Manpower Development and Administration, and the Planning and Marketing
Department. The latter two are concerned with research funding (para
2.14).
2.11      The Directorate of Research and Training is responsible for:
formulating agricultural research policy and objectives; assisting to
establish programs to fulfill the policy and objectives; and, by membership
of parastatal boards and counc'ls and of program coordinating land
committees, to coordinate, help to control and monitor the n;stional
research effort. It has not succeeded in this role, particularly in
providing liaison between MALD and the various research institutions;
between the different institutions; and between research and the MALD
controlled extension services; or in program planning and introducing a
system of priorities. The Directorate's authority has been inadequate for
that 'purpose vis-a-vis the parastatals and these shortcomings are one
reason for the modest performance of Tanzanian research in recent years.
2.12      The line of control of the various research organizations is
straightforward. The head of each institute of TARO and TALIRO or of each
department of TPRI or UAC reports to the Director General or Director of
the institution. Officers in charge of supporting research centers or
substations, in turn, report to the head of their institute or department
head. However in TARO, crop research programs are coordinated by national
crop coordinators situated at the Institute with national responsibility
for the crop, e.g. Kibaha for sugar cane; Lyamunga for coffee; and
Marikitanda for tea, etc. In discharging this function the coordinators
are subject to two lines of control: technically, they are responsible to



- 10 -
the TARO Director of Research and administratively to their institute
director. In addition, coordinating the programs throughout the country is
excessively costly and time consuming at present. The Master Plan
preparation team (para 3.09) would design ways of improving this system.
C. Research Program Planning and Budgeting
2.13      The planning process varies in details, but is similar for the
four parastatals. Research projects are prepared each year by research
scientists and then undergo several reviews. This process can take from
four to eight months and is more elaborate and time consuming for TARO,
with national coverage, than for the much smaller and more localized TPRI
or UAC. In each case individual proposals and the previous year's results
undergo detailed technical review, within the originating unit and by
committees of senior scientists, before aggregation of selected programs
for consideration by the managing Council or Board. No financial ceiling
is known to the planners at this stage. Justification is apparently based
mainly on scientific grounds, with less emphasis on addressing priorities
in line with Government policies, scarce resources, farmers' needs -except
by UAC which has established good farmer/extension/research linkage- or
coordination between research institutions to avoid duplications.
2.14      The recurrent budget is largely derived from the research
program proposals, which are costed in detail. At the same time, the
institute's management prepares a development budget for civil works,
vehicles and equipment. After approval by the council or board, the budget
and the research program are sent to MALD. There the recurrent budget is
reviewed by the Directorate of Manpower Development and Administration,
while development estimates are reviewed and revised by the Planning and
Marketing Department. Apparently, there is little coordination between
these two reviews.
2.15      In the absence of budget ceilings or guidelines, estimates from
the parastatals are usually much too high and have to be cut considerably
when MALD receives budget ceilings from the Treasury. As a result, the
research plans and development proposals have to be revised, often quite
drastically. However, each parastatal is subsequently able to defend its
own budget in the Treasury and submissions continue to exceed ceilings
until the final Treasury ruling is received. The present planning and
budgeting system is lengthy, time consuming and cumbersome. A more
rational system is desirable, and would be dealt with as part of major
institutional improvements to be supported by the Project (para 3.08).
D. Research Funding
2.16      Agricultural research in Tanzania is funded mainly by allocations
from GOT's recurrent and development budgets, from bilateral and
multilateral donors, and to a limited extent (on avera'ge about TShlO
million per yeusr) from the various parastatal crop authorities. Foreign
assistance comprises about TSh6O million Finnida funding for UAC and about
TSh63 million equivalent for several commodities, farming systems research
and administration assistance from EEC, Canada, USA, Netherlands, UK and
PAO. The table below illustrates Government allocations to agricultural
and livestock research. The data may be incomplete, but is comparable and
indicates the trend of Government support.                   I



- 11 -
Government Budget Allocations for Research, 1981/82 - 1985/86
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
-----------------(TSh million)-
Recurrent                     73.9      120.3     142.9     156.6      152.2
Development                   23.7      38.2       59.4      90.6      99.5
Total                         97.6     158.5      201.3     247.2     251.7
Total in Constant Prices      78.1      97.8       97.7      88.3       69.5
Total as a X of
Agricultural GDP            0.4       0.6        0.6       0.5       0.4
Funding for research has declined in real terms and as a percentage of
agricultural GDP from 0.6Z in 1982/83 to 0.4% in 1985/86. The decline may
be within the range of error for the data, but one can conclude that
support has not gone up during the review period. By comparison,
expenditure for research in Eastern Africa as a whole rose from 0.53% to
0.81% of agricultural GDP from 1970-1980.
2 *7      The bulk of Government research finance is used by the research
parastatals. Their 1986/87 budgets derived from data provided to the
appraisal mission are shown below:
Government Budget Allocations for Parastatals 1986/87
---------TSh million-----
TARO      TALIRO      UAC      TPRI     SUBTOTAL
Recurrent                    102.0      58.6       56.0      19.4      236.0
Development                   35.0      22.2       66.0.     13.7     136.9
Total                        137.0      80.8      122.0      33.1     372.9
Z of Total                    37        21         33         9       100
No. of Staff                1573       898       509        235        --
No. of Professioual
Staff                     133        78        43         32        --
No. of Stations               26        12          8         3
iAC, thanks to Finnish assistance, is relatively best endowed and can
consequentllv operate most effectively. The other institutions suffer
funding shortages, to some extent exacerbated by resource allocation
decisions (para 2.19) and uneven release of funds by the Treasury.
E.  MaJor Constraints and Shortcomings
Organization and Management
2.18      Fragmentation of research services ranks as one of the main
causes for the vietual stagnation of research in recent years. There are
too many iastitutions, boards of directors, resevrch stations and programs,
which have drained resources to an extent that vitiates the research



- 12 -
effort. The wasteful proliferation of expensive research stations and
institutional administrations and programs has left little funding for
conducting effective research. Staff is paid, but lacks equipment or
inputs to implement their programs. Attempts at national research program
planning, based on priorities, have foundered due to the strongly defended
autonomy of the research institutes. They do their own brand of planning
with scant reference to each other or to the national need. Various ideas
for coordinating planning, including coordination by HAY), have been tried
and have failed. Other shortcomings of the rese3rch system described below
are mostly related to the fragmentation problem. The only effective answer
is a .onsolidation of the research agencies into a single institution.
The Government and the Bank agree with this.
Planning, Budgeting and Financial Controls
2.19      There is no mechanism for drawing up and regularly updating a
national long-term research plan and selecting research priorities
consistent with national agricultural policy and available resources.
Consequently, there is no framework for the most effective application of
local and donor funds. Furthermore, allocation of funds for recurrent and
development expenditure is approved by different MALD units (para 2.14) and
is therefore largely uncoordinated. It is not unusual for development
funds to be available for new schemes and new construction, while existing
programs lack recurrent resources and existing facilities deteriorate for
lack of maintenance funds. Improved program and financial planning
are badly needed.
2.20      Financial control in TARO and TALIRO has shortcomings.  There is
a shortage of accounts staff at headquarters and in the field. For
example, in Februqry 1987 the post of chief accountant was vacant at TARO,
TALIRO and TPRI. The quality and timeliness of accounting are
unsatisfactory, and accounting systems are not standardized for the various
research agencies. Audits report large discrepancies between financial
reports and supporting records. In two out of four fiscal years reviewed,
auditors would not certify the final accounts. Monitoring of expenditures
against the budget varies from none to satisfactory, and some of the
accounting systems are weak in costing research programs and stock control.
2.21      TARO has been most troubled by financial control problems.  It
has been receiving assistance for improving budgeting, recording and
reporting procedures by an FAO adviser. A local accounting firm is helping
to eliminate its accounting backlog. However, more remedial action is
needed throughout the research complex and would be provided by the Project
(para 3.08).
2.22      Defective financial control has resulted in misallocation of
funds. Systems need upgrading; staff need to be trained and in some cases
recruited. Measures are needed to increase the frequency and accuracy of
management and financial reporting, introduce more discipline on the
accounting process, including a uniform accounting system for research
agencies. Improved financial control is also needed for reporting to
donors. Present shortcomings are a reason for donors wanting to set up
eeparate accounting systems.



- 13 -
Funding
2.23      The inadequacy of funds to sustain ongoing institutes, centers
and their programs and the lack of central planning, which exacerbates
funding constraints have been indicated (para 2.19). Shortage of foreign
exchange is a major problem. With the exception of externally funded
research programs, there are not enough fuel or usable vehicles for an
adequate supervision of trials. Funds for essential agricultural inputs
and supplies, or spare parts to repair laboratory equipment, vehicles and
farm machinery are also insufficient to sustain the research program.
Similarly, foreign exchange needed for maintenance and repair of station
facilities and station roads is lacking. Local funds are also inadequate
and approved funds are not always released on time. This causes failure of
experiments and consequent discouragement of research workers. Both, a
foreign exchange injection, and improved planning, in particular, assigning
priorities and designing the research effort to accord with available
resources, are equally important for effective future operations. Some
programs may need to be curtailed to attain research program
sustainabililty.
Staffing
2.24      There is a cadre of experienced senior researchers, but research
management ability is seriously lacking. In addition there is a sizeable
group of junior scientists and technical staff that requires further
training, particuiarly in research techniques. Research staff faces many
frustrations due to resource constraints -fragmeuted research efforts and
management shortcomings. Terms of service do not compensate for these
difficulties. Remedial measures are needed that include more attention to
human resource development. Among other measures, improved terms of
service and training opportunities should -be provided to eisure a motivated
and enthusiastic staff of research workers and measures to initiate
improvements would form part of the Project (para 4.03). In addition, the
staffing of commodity programs needs review so that the research resources
are applied to reflect the economic importance of the crop. There are
anomalies such as wheat (with 1.2Z of 1985 total crop value) which has four
times the staff of root and tuber crops (9.3% of 1985 total crop value).
Research Extension Linkage
2.25      With the exception of UAC there has been little productive
research/extension dialogue in the past. Recently, a few institutes that
have initiated farming systems research work have established some
research/extension liaison, but elsewhere, there is no contact of
researchers with extension workers or farmers. One reason for the dearth
of technical packages may well be lack of pressure from farmers and
extension workers for information. It is, in fact likely that much useful
information has been gathered by research in recent years that has not
reached farmers. Improving research-extension-farmer linkages requires
attention.
Technical Literature and Research Information
2.26     -Except for UAC and Sokoine University of Agriculture and despite
some donor assistance there is a severe shortage of technical literature.



- 14 -
Sokoine University has started some work on a national scheme for
acquisition, storage, and retrieval of research results nationwide which
requires reinforcement. The lack of published results of Tanzanian
researchers may also be one reason for relatively small impact of research
on production. Participating scientists badly need access to scientific
literature and contact with research workers elsewhere, and should be
encouraged to write up their work.
Sumary of Main Constraints
2.27      Tanzania is fortunate to have built up sizeable research
services, with a good station and laboratory network and a group of
scientists and technicians. In the past, these services recorded
considerable successes, but in recent years, results have been
disappointing with few recommendations emerging that have proved of
economic value to the sector. Furthermore, the physical plant is rundown
and the morale of research staff is low. There are several causes for the
difficulties encountered by the research service. These include above all,
the fragmentation and lack of coordination of the services, and resultant
inadequate program planning, in particular failure to identify research
priorities to matqh available resources; unsatisfactory financial planning
and control; and management shortcomings at all levels. These problems
need to be corrected before major investments in specific research projects
would be fruitful. Two measures require early attention. The first, the
consolidation of the research services and related improvements in
planning, coordination, monitoring, financial control and management
capacity; and second, a concurrent exercise in program pl-anning in depth,
to establish the framework for investing in research programs that answer
national priorities and are sustainable in the long run. The design of the
proposed project has taken account of the need to overcome the major
institutional constraints.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale and Prolect Oblectivee
3.01      Tanzania is a country with a large agricultural potential (para.
1.05). However, to realize this potential, it is essential to generate
appropriata new technology. While Tanzania can rely to some extent (and
certainly more than it has to-date) on the materials and findings of the
various Liternational research centers and other more technologically
advanced countries, adapting what is available to Tanzanian conditions will
require local research capability. Unfortunately, for reasons detailed in
Chapter II, the research capability which now exists is not adequate to
meet the country's, needs and has been unable to meet the challenges of the
agricultural sector. The slow generation of useable research results is
particularly unfottunate at the present time, when the Government has
embarked on an Ecdnomic Recovery Program aimed at improving farmer
incentives and reversing the decline in agricultural production (para.
1.04). While these and anticipated further policy reforms can be helpful
in stimulating a short-term supply response from farmers, sustaining
productivity growth over the long-term requires the continuous generation
of new technical packages that only a well organized and eificiently
managed agricultural research system with motivated staff can provide.
3.02      Developing such a research system in  tanzania will take
considerable time.  The main objective of the proposed project is to
implement the first stage in this longer term process and lay the
foundation for establishing an effectivewresearch system. There would be
two implementation phases of this first stage project. In the early phase,
consolidated and streamlined organizational structure and management
systems for research would be put in place, staff training would be
initiated, the capacity for planning and managing research would be
strengthened, a master plan for the future would be developed, essential
vehicles, equipment and materials, badly needed to sustain research
stations and programs in the near term would be provided, and three
specific research programs would be supported. In the later phase,
organizational, managerial and planning capabilities would be further
strengthened and additional programs would be funded according to
priorities indicated in the Master Plan, as such programs are
satisfactorily prepared. The proposad project should be seen as a
precursor to a more investment-intensive stage once the basic institutional
and human resource capability is developed.
B. Summary Description
3.03      Thi project would comprise the following components:
(a) the establishment of a new organizational structure for
agricultural research;
(b) the preparation of a Master Plan for agricultural and
livestock research which, in accordance with national
policies, identifies specific research activities ranked in
order of priority and defines the human physical and
financial resources required for each activity;



- 16 -
(c) the training of staff primarily to meet immediate needs for
management and research methodology, and to support the
programs listed in (e) below pending the preparation of a
more comprehensive training plan;
(d) the provision of vehicles, equipment and materials badly
needed to tide over ongoing research efforts until revised
prdgrams are developed;
(e)  the financing of cotton, root/tuber and farming systems
research programs that have been adequately prepared and for
which priorities have been established; and
(f) the establishment of a research fund for crop and livestock
research programs for which priorities will be established
in the master plan, as and when such programs have been
adequately prepared.
C. Detailed Features
3rganization and Managemnt (US$8.1 Million)
3.04      The MALD will dissolve the existing research organizations and
consolidate their services into a strengthened Research and Training
Department (RTD) within MALD. The main research effort would come from six
or seven zonal research centers, each comprising a lead station and several
associated stations.  The zonal stations each helped by a broadly based
advisory committee would be given a large measure of autonomy. They would
carry out local adaptive research and would also house national research
programs that would design and evaluate trials throughout the country. The
consolidated Research and Training Department would be headed by a
commissioner, reporting directly to the Principal Secretary MALD. He would
be assisted by three assistant commissioners, one each for livestock
research, agricultural research and training. Each zonal center would be
headed by a director reporting to the Commissioner.
3.05      In the first restructuring stage, TALIRO and TARO would be
dissolved. The Uyole Agricultural Center (UAC), which is already
functioning as a zonal center, does not need adjustment to its constitution
in the first instance, but will be brought into line with other zonal
centers later. The Tropical Pesticides Research Institute (TPRI) would be
studied during restructuring and as part of the preparation of the Research
Master Plan (pars 3.09) to design the most appropriate institutional
arrangements. The Government has agreed to the above institutional
changes. To encourage effective and timely implementation of the necessary
institutional restructuring:
(a) assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(i) appoint staff in the positions of Commissioner, Assistant
Commissioner and other division heads during the project
period; and



- 17 -
(ii) make an institutional arrangement satisfactory to IDA to
integrate UAC into RTD by June 30, 1989, and study TPRI to
determine whether or not TPRI's current activities
should be integrated into RTD (para 6.01(a); and
(b) the establishment of the new Research and Training Department and
appointment of key staff listed in pare 3.05(a)(t) above, would
be conditions of project effectiveness (para 6.03(a) and (b).
It is recognized that it will take several years before the new department
is actually operational in the sense of having filled most of the key
posts, created the new divisions (para 3.06), established operating
procedures and occupied the proposed new headquarters facilities (para
3.07). To assist MALD in carrying out these tasks, particularly the
development of an effective management system, technical assistance would
be provided under the Project (Annex 3). By the end of the Project
implementation period, a reasonably well managed and organized new research
organization is expected to be in place.
3.06      As much of RTD staff as possible should be in the field and
engaged in research. The headquarters staff would therefore be kept to a
minimum. However an effective and well organized core organization it'
necessary to provide direction, planning, monitoring and essential services
to zonal stations. This would consist of four divisions: (a) crops, (b)
livestock, (c) training, and (d) support services. The first three would
be headed by Assistant Commissioners (para 3.04) and the other by a
"Director". Two important units would be situated in the Commissioner's
office: (i) the Central Research Planning and Evaluation Unit and (ii) the
Finance and Administration unit.  The Central Farming System Research Unit
would also be at the headquarters. A detailed description of the functions
and activities of each division and the units and an organization chart are
given in Annex 2. The following is a summary:
(i)  the Assistant Commissioners would be the chief advisors to the
Commissioner, would share the burden of managing the zonal
stations and providing representation on numerous boards and
committees. They would ensure the smooth functioning of zonal
centers. They would be assisted in their duties by scientific
advisors.  The nutber would be determined according to the work
load. There are some institutes that may not lend themselves to
inclusion in the zonal system. The master plan study would
examine this issue and would make recommendations.  If confirmed
that some should be centrally administered, they would report to
the relevant Assistant Commissioner.
(it) The Central Research Planning and Evaluation Unit, would be a key
feature of the restructured RTD. It would provide planning
services to the Department as a whole, monitor and help
coordinate preparation and updating of the Research Master Plan,
evaluate the program, play a key role in establishing priorities



- 18 -
for fund allocation, establish and maintain the research
information management system and provide guidelines to managers
for budgeting.
(iii)  The main support services include inter alia soil and land use
surveys, library information services, documentation, biometrics,
agricultural engineering and computer services. They cannot be
regionalized effectively, but should provide services for the
entire research/training system.
(iv) The Finance and Administration Unit would be another key
component of the new Research and Training Department. The
Department needs its own systems, suitably linked to associated
MALD systems for costing component activities of research
programs, to allow management to budget for and monitor such
activities.  This would be central for improving mauagement
information, research program planning, budgeting and control.
In addition, delegation of authority is needed for financial and
administrative action to permit research activities to proceed
without delays. Local procurement procedures also need to be
speeded up. The Finance and Administration Unit would need to
develop, implement and constantly monitor and improve these
systems and would therefore be central to the consolidation
process.
(v) The Central Farming Systems Research Unit would coordinate
farming systems work, organize workshops and training, support
regional FSR work and keep it in touch with the latest
developments in the field. This unit may become the core of an
Economics Department, which is laeking at present.
3.07      The new department would establish a task force (para 4.03),
which would be supported by technical assistance funded by the Project, to
guide the transition from the present to a consolidated research system and
to set up the new, consolidated Research and Training Department. Draft
Terms of Reference for the consultants are shown in Annex 3. For the
initial project period, no physical relocation of facilities and staff are
likely to take place, while the new headquarters facility is being prepared
for occupancy.  The MALD headquarters are overcrowded and cannot
accommodate the core headquarters for the new RTD.  Early action Is needed
to identify a suitable site for the new headquarters and draw up designs.
Assurances were obtained that the site will have-been identified by
November 15, 1988 and that acquisition and design will be undertaken
expeditiously so that construction can start not later than mid 1989 (para
6.01(b)). During the interim period, the newly organized divisions of
crops and livestock of the RTD would operate in the old TARO and TALIRO
facilities, respectively. UAC, being a regional institute would not be
affected by the consolidation process initially and its special funding
arrangements with bilateral donors would be continued. The other divisions
and units would temporarily have to operate out of MALD headquarters until
the new headquarters facilities for research are available. During this
interim period, these divisions and units, with the help of the
consultants, would concentrate on introducing common accounting, planning
and administrative procedures into the research system.



- 19 -
3.08      The project would finance the construction of new headquarters,
and technical assistance to help the task force to plan and execute the
consolidation of research services, strengthen management, financial
control, accountancy and planning capacity. For this purpose, a resident,
an experienced organization and management specialist advisor would be
employed, who has successfully carried out or participated in the
restructuring of a large organization. Funding is also available for
specialists in the fields of research accountancy/financial control,
research management, planning and related economics, computerization,
procurement, and in some other fields, possibly personnel management, to be
identified in the planning phase of the consolidation/restructuring
process. It is estimated that total long-term assistance needed would be 5
expert years while short-term assistance would be 8.2 expert years. Local
contract accountants would be financed, to help bring all accounts
up-to-date and redesign the accounting system. There would also be funding
for: office furniture and equipment; five four-wheel drive vehicles and six
pick-ups to improve operating capacity of headquarters research staff; two
buses and two minibuses for transporting staff to and from work.
Preparation of Master Plan (US$1.5 Million, included in organization and
management)
3.09      Under the Project, RTD would prepare a Research Master Plan.  The
Plan would be prepared by working parties to be set-up by RTD (pats 4.06)
assisted by internationally recruited experts. Because of the interest of
several donors in supporting Tanzania's agricultural and livestock
research, several SPAAR members are planning to fund the experts needed to
help the Tanzanian scientists to prepare the Plan, as well as all other
costs including transport, local staff, equipment, materials, printing and
other costs of preparing the Plan.    As a preliminary, SPAAR members are
funding a detailed review of research work done to date in Tanzania,
followed by a workshop of senior Tanzanian research staff to map out the
strategy for preparing the Plan. The Master Plan would review and define
the total agricultural and livestock research frogram and identify priority
research areas over the short-, medium- and long-term. It would also
identify how these research activities would be carried out (including
contracting out research when necessary) and with what human and ftnancial
resources. In this respect, the Master Plan should include a detailed
review of financial and other resources to allow formulation of a
sustainable research program.  It would, therefore, recomend where
streamlining is necessary and where facilities, stations or activities need
to be extended, rehabilitated or closed. The working parties that would
prepare the Master Plan (pars 4.06) would collaborate with the
restructuring task force to make recommendations on whether and how all or
part of TPRI's activities would be absorbed by the new research
organization. The two teams would collaborate on other issues such as
preparation of a long-term strategy for staff development and trainiag,
including a five year manpower development plan; and review of the terms
and conditions of employment of research staff. In addition, the concepts
and methods for updating the Master Plan on a re&lar basis would be
specified. It is expected that the Master Plan exercise would take from
two to three years to complete. More detailed terms of reference for the
preparation of the Research Master Plan are given in Annex 4.



- 20 -
Staff Development and Training (Costs (US$2.8 Million), included in other
Components)
3.10      The training needs in many areas of research are urgent and the
lack of trained staff would be an impediment tc successful implementation
of the proposed Project. It is important that the training program begins
as soon as possible, while a more comprehensive long-term training program
will be prepared under the restructuring and Master Plan exercises.
Short-term training lasting two to four weeks for research managers, which
would address an urgent need to improve management skills, and in research
methodology, aimed at improving standards of field experimentation, will be
undertaken on a regular basis at appropriate local institutions. In the
initial years, instructors, financed under the Project, will be brought in
from outside who, jointly with Tanzanian counterparts, will prepare and run
the training courses specifically designed to meet local needs. Similar
training would be provided for planning, budgeting, financial management
and control and for upgrading accountancy standards. Special training for
selected senior research managers will be undertaken at suitable
institutions/organizations overseas. Scientists and techWncians will be
tra:ned through several means, including university degree and diploma
programs, training courses at international research centers, study tours
and exchange programs with other countries. The details are summarized in
Annex 5.   The MALW Training Division is experienced in organizing such
training programs and assurances were obtained that the division would
prepare detailed training proposals with details of the qualifications of
selected candidates, to be submitted for IDA review, by March 31, 1989
(para 6.01(c)).
Vehicles, Equipment and Materials Fund (US$3.0 million)
3.11      The ongoing crops and livestock research programs, institutes and
centers are facing difficulties in their work due to worn out vehicles and
equipment and lack of Imported materials such as laboratory reagents.
Provision of the most urgently needed items cannot wait for the completion
of the Master Plan. The project would provide a US$3.0 million fund to
al.-leviate the most important shortages (US$1.0 million for crops and US$2.0
million for livestock research services) so that purchases can be made
early during the project. These investments would not prejudice the Master
Plan as they are fungible and would be needed as part of any of the
programs to be designed under the Plan.
Research Activities (US$ 8.5 Million)
3.12      The:> 'are some high priority research activities which need
urgent support and will fit in with the framework to be provided by the
Research Master Pl-an. Three priority research projects that meet these
criteria have already been identified and proposals prepared for project
finsecing. They would strengthen cotton, root/tuber, and farming systems
research. Livestock research programs have not been included, because
screening of livestock research activities was not completed during project
prepsration. Identification of livestock research priorities would be
carried out by a FAO/World lank Cooperative Program mission in June 1988
and its task would include detailed preparation of ranked priority programs
(including manpower, physical and financial resources needed). The



- 21 -
resultant output would be a contribution to the proposed Master Plan (para
3.09), but may identify investment that would satisfy criteria for
financing in the early project phase, together with the three programs
described below.
3.13      Lotton Research (US$ 3.4 Million) - Cotton ranks second among
export crops after coffee, which enjoys EEC support for its research
program. Cotton does not have such support. New cotton varieties are
needed with different fiber characteristics, to meet changing consumer
demands. Tanzania depends vitally on research to retain its share of the
cotton market in the face of stiff competition from other producers and
man-made fiber. Research must also safeguard the crop against the
particularly damaging pest and disease complex associated with cotton.
Recent work has suffered from decline of facilities at the main station,
Ukiriguru, lack of equipment and shortage of qualified staff. Breeding
programs to evolve new varieties and improve yield and quality, integrated
pest control and strengthened seed production would be supported by the
project. Main investments would include construction of staff housing, a
laboratory and an office block, a cold seed store; also purchase of
tractors, equipment and six vehicles (to replace defunct equipment and
vehicles), seven motorcycles and 40 bicycles to strengthen on-farm testing,
and rehabilitation of the Ukiriguru electricity and water supply systems.
Technical assistance for plant breeding that had been in place but
terminated recently would be reestablished for a further four years, while
local scientists are abroad on fellowships. Funding for short-term
-onsultants would be provided to help solve problems that arise from time
to time.  The staff training program includes 4 PhD and 3 Masters
fellowships.
3.14      Roots and Tubers Research (US$ 2.1 Million) - Cassava and sweet
potatoes are an important constituent of tne Tanzanian diet and in some
parts of the country account for the bulk of the energy food. The crop has
received relatively little attention from the research services in the past
and a modest program has been developed at Ukiriguru, the main cotton
station. As with cotton, roots/tuber programs have been handicapped by
housing, office, electricity and water shortages due to inadequate
maintenance and by lack of reliable vehicles and equipment. Cassava
research needs reinforcing and includes identification of mosaic and brown
streak virus resistant cultivars and biological control of spider mites and
mealy bugs. These are all pests or diseases that are causing or have the
potential to cause heavy crop losses. 'Identification of high yielding
cultivars, agronomy practices and pest and diseased control would be
priorities for sweet potato work. Investments would include construction
of new housing, a laboratory, office building, farm building, workshop and
rehabilitation of houses; purchase of 2 four-wheel drive vehicles, 4
pickups, a truck, 20 motorcycles and 50 bicycles--the latter two items for
supervising field trials; and farm implements and workshops, laboratory and
office equipment. Some of the construction and equipment purchases would
serve to improve Ukiriguru station and thus benefit both roots/tuber and
cotton research. Staff training would provide two PhD and five MSc
fellowships over the project period.
3.15      Farming Systems Research (FSR) (US$ 3.0 Milllon) - FSR was
introduced into Tanzania in the mid 709 and has been established at two
centers and has been strengthened recently by bilateral Netherlands'



- 22 -
assistance. The project would expand it further to cover all zones. FSR
shows promise of bridging the present gap between research, extension and
farmers. Field studies into farmers' constraints would help shape the
research program. Since women carry out mauy of the farming opirations and
their needs and constraints may not have been fully diagnosed to date, FSR
work would pay particular attention to this issue and to identifying such
remedial measures as may be needed. This may require special field
trials. Resultant "on-farm research," in close collaboration with
commodity research staff and extension staff, would be designed for
wide-scale testing of research results on farmers' land. Investments would
include staff housing at the various stations to be served, office and
computing equipment. and incremental recurrent costs including funding of
on-farm trials. Mobility is of prime importance and the project would
finance 11 vehicles, 16 motorcycles and 40 bicycles, the two latter items
partly to help extension and commodity staff to participate in intensive
field experimentation. There would be three expert years technical
assistance to fill a gap in directing the program, while loce1 staff
undergo training abroad. Training would include 2 PhD and 6 Masters
fellowships, funding for short courses or seminars abroad and for an annual
course for all professional FSR staff locally with possible assistance from
guest experts.
Research Fund (US$ 5.7 Million)
3.16      The fund would finance other research subprojects according to
identified priorities and within the reRnurrca  Rp.4ified by the Moster
Plan. Special consideration would be given to livestock research programs
for inclusion in the early project phase (para 3.12). Funding would be
available for all expenditures except local recurrent costs. The Fund
would also be available for contract research locally, e.g., by the
University or abroad if the expertise or equipment needed is not available
locally. The Planning and Evaluation Unit would collaborate with the
different research units (e.g., the maize research team for a maize
research subproject) to prepare subprojects. The Unit would need to
establish a small project preparation cell for that purpose, coopt
specialists as needed or employ short-term consultants for expertise that
cannot be found in the Department. Preparation should be along lines
specified in a subproject preparation manual that is to be drawn up as part
of the preparation of the Master Plan. Subprojects should be reviewed by
the Commissioner of Research and Training, assisted by a panel comprising
the Division Heads of the new Department. Assurances were obtained that
all subprojects through the Research Fund costing more than US$100,000
each, which are to be funded by the project and have been approved by the
Commissioner, would be sent to IDA, for review (para 6.01(d)); and IDA
approval for such subprojects would be a condition of disbursement of this
component (pars 6.02).
D. Cost Estimates
3.17      Total cost of the Project, including physical contingencies and
expected price increasses, is estimated at TSh3,709.9 million (US$25.3
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$20.5 million, or 81X.
The Government does not levy duties and taxes on goods and services
supplied to agricultural research departments or parastatals. Therefore,
no tax element has been included in the project costs. Physical



-23 -
contingencies have been Included at 15% for civil works. The cost
estimates are based on June 1987 prices. Price contingency calculation.
have taken account of the divergence between forecast foreign Inflation
rates of 3X for 1987-1990 and 4X thereafter, and forecast local rates of
30X for 1987, 25Z for 1988, 20% for 1989, 151 for 1990 and 101 thereafter.
The "purchasing power parity" method has been used for contingency
calculations. Thus contingencies expressed in US dollars have been worked
out using the above foreign inflation rates while contingencies expressed
In Tanzanian shillings have been calculated usaing the above local inflation
rates. Project costs by component over an eight year implementation period
are summarized in the following table (details are given in Annex 6).
(TIE 100)                        155
2 TteSl                       * Tt.1
11cal  Focuig.     tXd,u  Cot  Lo4 Fute  Total   d    f Cate
a.  m     mmu
650018 i    MI              44409,9  1191.6  16010.7    75    o  450.5 1,32.4 1fn76.   75    o
IDIIII fEES                 51t254 31.  46a.6 266046.3    61  1U  569.4 2.394.3 2#39    a6   3
Fs_ gms                     52#170s,5. 1m430.O 22to.s    77 n I 57t.? 1.4  M2M         77  1I
Totdl sm l"Do                 U43,t942.1 G.5160.4  A4I430.    7n   33 1599.4 5,472.1  .114  76   33
to tIMI110 l#Da   IT          151,79.6  5s.0 6527*4.      77   32 106M.2 S.564 72M27     77   32
co i1=1D Ro0  fI               6*662.0 3646.2 433531.2    94   22  75l 4051-9 445710     64   22
. goU l.EUi   I  illm            _-  14*00.  270000    100   13        - 3400W   3400.    100   a
TotalS OM 5                    364.52.? 1.646*145.4 24.10.14663  02  100       22.32      84   1o
ital CutbWmcts                16.5.2  11*59.6  34,469.0  4      2  20i.4  179.6  33.    47    2
hi CWA     s                 34239.3 2.21.447S-6    76   63  5.5 1. 990  2.4W           76   It
TaOs) aM1                                                       USs: ^ 2   F.?  40   55 441A 20404 25210.1    S1  113
m.   Project  Financing
3.18          The project costs would be financed by a SDR 6.0 million (US$8.3)
million IDA credit; a parallel US$8.2 million African Development Fund
(ADF) loan; grants totalling US$7.2 million from the Netherlands, the
Federal German Republic, and the United Kingdom; and the balance of US$1.6
million by GOT as follows:
Financig!PEla
Fisulim noe to PreJot Cnmamt
AOstK=     Mast If    IIt   IU IstlW   Mast _llt                2   M t
M161AG       1U1                     -    16116.4 7.      -                           -   272 12.4  2*073.  82
101165 PU_                           -   - 2,40.3 7.0      -   - 752.5 23.3       -   -   195,4 5.7  343   12.4
FM=IIS SIBlum   ll5                 -  -       -   ^ 2t6.6 OM,9       -   -       -   -   2"60 t10.  2.5 1U#7
h-Ttabl EKH2NU                         -   - 4*256.6 50,2 2.6 11.5   601.5  9.5      -   -    50.6 6.9         3.5
L        MN     NO   4M150 4 512                  -   -      -   -  2i2.1#0 26.2 I,615*7 19,9   212.9 2.6  &09f9  32.0
Co liWO IT IME0FOS                3116.6 546 2#1572 s7       -   -       -   -       -   -   40.1 75  579 22
L WW* UIIIFIITIS fA     UL8  ilt  I.. 13,3 1600.0 60..0      -   -           -       -   -   200.0 6,7  3*000.0 11.9
Tbotl  n _ut                        8*267.0 32.7 86213.8 32*5 2*6.6 10.5  2,923.5 11.6  I*65.7 6.4  195936 643 25*2611 10"0
A,t 20 1900 12O



- 24 -
3.19      The total foreign assistance would cover 100% of foreign costs
and 67% of local costs and would all be parallel financing. The
Netherlands would finance the Farming Systems Research Program, the Federal
German Republic, the team leader of the restructuring team; the United
Kingdom, technical assistance for the cotton program and for the
restructuring team; and SPAAR the cost of the haster Plan. At the time of
credit negotiations, the Federal German Republic and the United Kingdom
were the two SPAAR members that had undertaken to finance the cost of the
Master Plan. They expected that other SPAAR members would also contribute,
but in case this did not happen, they agreed to share the US$1.5 million
cost of preparing the Plan. Consequently, a US$0.75 million provision to
fund Research Plan preparation has been included in each, the Federal
German and the United Kingdom grants in the project financing plan. ADF
would support the cotton and roots/tuber components, urgently needed
vehicles, equipment and materials for livestock research and part of the
unallocated research fund; while IDA would finance the balance of the
unallocated research fund, part of the restructuring costs and urgently
needed vehicles, equipment and materials for crops research. GOT would
finance incremental local operating costs. These are not expected to
increase the overall budget due to savings expected from consolidation of
the research services, unless the research program is expanded on
recommendations of the Research Master Plan. To ensure that the project
would not be delayed by financing gaps, it would be a condition of project
effectiveness that all conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of
the UK grant and the West German grant and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the ADF loan had been fulfilled (pars 6.03(c)). In view
of the Government's fiscal constraints, project design has minimized
incremental recurrent costs. Nevertheless, because of conflicting calls on
budget resources there is a danger that the recurrent research budget may
be eroded in the future. This would undermine the main project objectives
of establishing a technically and financially sound and viable research
organization.  Consequently, assurances were obtained that the Government
would: (a) maintain the 1987/88 value in real terms of its annual
contribution to the recurrent budget of all agricultural and livestock
research organizations and their successor organizations; (b) jointly with
IDA and other donors review the research budget annually; and (c) after
acceptance of the Master Plan, revise budget allocations upwards, if
necessary, to accord with agreed recommendations of the Plan (para
6.01(e)).
3.20      Project Preparation Facility.  To help prepare the project a PPF
for US$500,000 was granted. This has been used for hiring consultants,
related expenses and the purchase of vehicles for the use of the project
preparation team initially and for urgent replacement of vehicles used by
research staff. Costs have been included in the organization and
management component.
F. Procurement
3.21      Procurement procedure for items financed by ADF, would be
according to ADF guidelines, those financed by other donors would accord to
the guidelines of those donors, while items financed by IDA would be
purchased according to IDA guidelines as elaborated in paras 3.22-3.25



- 25 -
below. Assurances were obtained that these procedures would be followed
(para 6.01(f)). Where procurement of similar items is concerned, the
project management would ensure reasonable standardization of such items,
irrespective of the source of finance.
3.22      All civil works would be executed by contract and all bidders for
civil works contracts would be prequalified. The construction of
headquarters offices with estimated US$1.40 million cost would be subject
to international competitive bidding. Domestic civil works contractors
participating in the ICB procurement would qualify for a 7 1/2%
preference.
3.23      Whenever possible, purchase of goods, including vehicles,
machinery and equipment will be bulked into contracts of more than
US$100,000 to be procured by international competitive bidding. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers under ICB would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15X of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties or import taxes, whichever is lower. Contracts for goods
below US$100,000 may be awarded after local competitive bidding
(aggregating to US$400,000). International shopping may be used to procure
training aids and equipment. Proprietary spare parts, scientific journals
and text books may be ptrtchased directly from suppliers. In addition,
small off-the-shelf items costing less than US$20,000 each and needed
urgently for project implementation may be purchased by "prudent shopping"
after at least three price quotations. The total value of items purchased
under international shopping, prudent shopping and direct purchase shall
aggregate to US$100,000.
3.24      Consultant services would be procured according to IDA
guidelines, with qualifications and contract terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. Overseas training and local training arrangements
would be subject to IDA approval. Other project expenditures such as staff
pay and recurrent operating expenditures are not subject to procurement
procedures.
3.25      IDA financed contracts for more than US$250,000 and US$100,000
equivalent for civil works and plant/equipment, respectively, would require
IDA review of procurement documentation prior to award of contract. Other
IDA-financed contracts would be subject to post-award review.
Prequalification documentation (invitation and evaluation) would also
require IDA review. Procurement for research fund investments will
generally follow the procedures described above, except that the threshold
value for civil works contracts subject to LCB would be US$500,000,
provided such contracts are in scattered locations. Civil works in excess
of this value will be subject to ICB. LCB procedures. for civil works are
found to be ac,eptable except for preference presently given to
parastatals, which is not acceptable under IDA financed procurement. For
the procurement of equipment under the research fund, the same threshold
values as above would apply (para 3.23). The aggregate values indicated
above, exclude procurement under the research fund. Procurement planning
for the research fund will be monitored closely. The following table
summarizes procurement methods for different expenditure categories:



- 26 -
Procurement Schedule
US$  Million               Other
Expenditure                                       Research  Donors'
Category          ICB    LCB   Other    NA         Fund    Method    Total
Civil Workw        1.4                                        1 _  _  _  1.9  3.3
(1.4)    -       _       _          _       1.91      (1.4)
Vehicles/          1.0     0.4     0.1      -         -       3.3        4.8
Equipment      (1.0)   (0*4)   (0.1)    -           -      13.11      (1.5)
Technical         _        -       0.3      -         -       5.1        5.4
Assistance      -        -      (0.3)    -          -      [5.11      (0.3)
Training          -        -       0.9      -         -       1.9        2.8
-       -      (0.9)    -          -      11.91      (0.9)
Administrative    -        -       0.1      -         -       -          0.1
Costs           -        -      (0.1)    -          -       -         (0.1)
Recurrent          -       -       _        0.7       -       2.0        2.7
Costs           -        -       _      (0.5)       -      [1.21      (0.5)
Research Fund      _-                       -         3.3     2.4        5.7
-       -       -        -        (3.2)   [2.21      (3.1)
P.P.F.            -       -        0.5     _     -            -          0.5
_       -      (0.5)    -          -       -         (0.5)
Total           2.4      0.4     1.9     0.7)       3.3    16.6       25.3
(2.4)   (0,4)   (1.9)   (0.5)      (3.1)  [15.4]      (8.3)
Notes:  (1) Figures in round parentheses () represent IDA finance.
(2) Figures in rectangular parenthese [1 represent other donors
finance whose procurement procedures will apply.
(3) Research Fund investments could be in any or all of the other
expenditure categories (except PPF) and would be subject to the
procurement procedures described in paras 3.22-3.25.
G. Disbursements
3.26      The proceeds of the US$8.3 million IDA Credit would be disbursed
over eight years as follows:
Proposed
Amount       Disbursement
US$ Million     Percentage
(a)  Civil Works                         1.4             100
(b)  Vehicles and Equipment              1.5             100
(c)  Technical Assistance                0.3             100
(d)  Training                            0.9             100
(e)  Administrative Capital Costs        0.1             100
(f)  Foreign Operating Costs             0.5             100
(g)  Research Fund                       3.1             100
(h)  PPF repayment                       0.5             100
3.27      Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full
documentation, except for items 3.26 (e) and (f) above and for expenditures



-27 -
under contracts and purchase orders below US$20,000 equivalent each, which
would be based on statements of expenda.cure. Supporting documentation for
statements of expenditure should be retained by the borrower for IDA
review. The statements of expenditure would be subject to special audit
each year (para 3.30).
3.28      The project has a major technical assistance component.  The
disbursement period over eight years coincides with the Bank profile for
last African technical assistance projects. Measures to help ensure
punctual disbursement include employment of consultants (partly provided by
cofinanciers) to improve the management capacity of the Research and
Training Department; provision of a procurement specialist; and the help of
the Bank's Agricultural Country Officer, whose intervention at critical
moments has speeded up disbursements of ongoing projects. Projected
Completion and Closing Dates are September 30, 1996 and March 31, 1997
respectively. The estimated disbursement schedule for the IDA credit
(Annex 7) is as follows:
- …       -------- -- - -(US$ Million) ----
IDA            FT    89   90   91   92   93   94   95    96
Annual                0.8  1.6  1.6  1.4  1.3  0.8  0.6   0.2
"umulative           0.8  2.4  4.0  5.4  6.7  7.5  8.1   8.3
3.29      Special Account - To ensure that funds for thi project Vould be
readily available when needed and to reduce the number of disbursement
claims to be processed, a Special Account in US dollars would be
established at the Bank of Tanzania. Upon project effectiveness, US$0.4
million would be deposited by IDA into this account to be used to pay for
any expenditures to be financed by IDA (para 3.26). This amount is in line
with the average 3-4 months disbursement rate. Further deposits by IDA to
replenish the Special Account would be made against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documents.
R. Accounts and Audits
3.30      The new Research and Training Department would maintain separate
records of project expenditure which would be audited by an independent
auditor satisfactory to IDA. The auditor would also prepare a report to
verify disbursements based on statements of expenditure and on transactions
resulting from the use of the Special Account. Agreement was obtained on
these accounting and auditing procedures and that the audit report would be
submitted for IDA review within nine months of the end of each financial
year (para 6.01(g)).
3.31      The project would provide assistance, through a finance and
accounting specialist and local contract accountants, to revise and unify
the TARO and TALIRO accounting systems (later, UAC would be similarly
treated) to meet the requirements of MALD and of agricultural and livestock
research. The above-mentioned assistance would help to establish the
accounting and management information section of the Finance and
Administration Unit of RTD and would design or modify and implement
appropriate systems and procedures (especially for research



- 28 -
costing, budgeting, and actual cost reporting, and to account separately
for the contributions of each donor). Internal and external audits would
be undertaken in accordance with normal MALD practice.



- 29 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Implementing and Advisory Agencies
4.01      The implementation agency would be the newly established
Research and Training Department (RTD) within MALD. The Commissioner for
Research and--Training, reporting directly to the Principal Secretary MALD
(para 3.04), would be responsible for project implementation. He would
initially be concerned with establishing the core headquarters organization
of RTD (para 3.06), appointment of division and unit heads and setting up
the consolidation/restructuring task force (pars 4.03) and working parties
to prepare the Research Master Plan (para 4.06). He would be responsible
for ensuring smooth transition of the existing research system into the
proposed consolidated structure.
4.02      To ensure that research policy conforms to national priorities
and to ,.rovide the research services with the benefit of advice from major
Tanzaniandnterests concerned with agriculture and related economic
sectors, a National Agricultural Advisory Council would be set up. The
Government has already established a National Commission for Science and
Technology as the principal advisory organ on scientific research and
technology. The Commission operates under the- Ministry of Finance,
Economic Affairs and Planning and is to establish several committees to
deal with the various branches of technology and research.  Its
Agricultural and Livestock Research Committee would become 'the 'ations'al
Agricultural Advisory Council and would act as an advisory council for the
new Department. Members would be chosen from farmers' groups, academia,
private industry and Government and the secretariat would be provided by
the Department. Assurances were obtained that the Council would be
established by December 31, 1988 (para 6.01(h)).
Consolidation of Research Institutes
4.03      Consolidating MALD research services with TARO and TALIRO would
be given highest priority. For that purpose the Commissioner of Research
and Training would establish a task force, to be chaired by a senior RTD
official. The appointment of this task force, on terms of reference and
with membership satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness
(pars 6.03(d)). To ensure prompt implementation-of the necessary
institutional restructuring, assurances were obtained that: (i) a plan--
including a timetable for consolidating the research services would be sent
to IDA for review not later than six months after effectiveness; and (ii)
the plan agreed between IDA and the Government wo,ld be implemented
according to its timetable (para 6.01(i)). In addition, to ensure adequate
support for the task force, the Government agreed to appoint an
organization and management specialist and a research management specSalist
by December 31, 1988 on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
Government also agreed to employ such other consultants'as shall be
necessary to complete the institutional restructuring task. The
consultant services that may be needed for that purpose are described in
Annex 3. The task force would liaise closely with the working groups that
would prepare the Master Plan (para 4.06). Subjects of close common
interest include designing the zonal research structure, its organization



- 30 -
and staffing, other staffing issues such as training needs, career
structure and terms of service, and the consideration of the future
organization of TPRI and its programs.
4.04      The restructuring process entails, initially, the continuing
operation of research institutions along existing lines, except that TARO
and TALIRO would report to the Commissioner of Research and Training (and
through him to the Principal Secretary MALD) rather than to parastatal
boards. There are several issues that would require particular attention
including:
(a) safeguarding staff terms of service;
(b) closing accounts affected by the dissolution of TARO and TALIR0;
(c) reassignment of headquarters staff; and
(d) ensuring suitable financial and administrative procedures for the
restructured department (para 3.06(iv)).
4.05      The consultants would also assist the Department to strengthen
its management capability. A management information system to facilitate
most effective resource use and that would include research program
monitoring and evaluation would be installed, and functions and job
descriptions clearly defined. In addition, comuon accounting procedures
and methods would be introduced to cover all research institutes and
centers, and the introduction of computerization would be explored.
B. Research Master Plan
4.06      The Comissioner of Research and Training oWuld be responsible
for the preparation of the Master Plan. Terms of Reference for the Plan
are given in Annex 4. He would appoint subject matter working parties (and
a leader for each parties) to be assisted by consultants. For this first
Master Plan, a fair degree of reliance is expected to be placed on the
consultants, with an emphasis on transferring skills so that future
preparation and updating will be largely a Tanzanian exercise. The
Agricultural Advisory Council's recommendations would also be sought during
the preparation of the Plan. Since this Plan will be the key to future
research programs, the sooner it is prepared the better. Therefore,
(a) the Government agreed that by project effectiveness, it would set-up
the necessary working parties to draw up the Research Master Plan; (para
6.03(e)); and (b) assurances were obtained that (i) consultants on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA would be appointed to assist the working
parties, and (ii) the completed Plan would be sent for IDA review by
December 31, 1990 (para 6.01(j)). The Plan, which is expected to take
about two years to complete, should become available towards the second
half of the third project year.
4.07      The Master Plan would provide the details of the decentralized
zonal research station system. This system is expected to comprise some
six or seven zones, each with about three or four administrative regions
corresponding to the various broad agro-ecological areas. The exact
definition of zonal boundaries, the location of lead zonal research
stations, and the number and location of other research centers and
stations would be identified in the Master Plan. Less important stations
may have to be closed. The zonal research station structure would be
established based on the recommendati,Ps of the Master Plan. Facilities
would be identified for either closure or renovation, key staff assignments
would be made and the operating procedures and linkages with headquarters



- 31 -
would be specified. The zonal stations would conduct vigorous on and off
station adaptive research, farming systems research and would be the focus
of research/extension linkage. In addition, some zonal stations tould
house commodity research centers which have a national mandate (pVra 4.08).
4.08      The Plan would also specify type and amount of commodity research
to be conducted and confirm the location of the national centers for each
commodity. At these, the commodity research specialists and the main
research effort for any specific comodity would-be conceatrated, but
results would be widely tested through the zonal station network. As far
as possible, the national centers would be located at and combined with the
zonal stations, but some may not fit this model. The Master Plan would
recommend which institutes or centers would be more effectively
administered centrally, by the Assistant Commissioner of Crops or
Livestock, at headquarters.
C. Research/Extension Linkages
4.09      Procedures to ensure that farmers' problems are investigated, and
that research results are provided to the extension service for advice to
farmers would be the key to successful research programs. The instruments
for this purpose would be the farming systems research program, and regular
contact between research and extension workers. To ensure the success of
those linkage arrangements, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  a senior extension staff member would be seconded to each
farming systems research team to work as research-eitension
liaison officer. He would participate in FSR program
planning at zonal level, would help with selection of sites
and farmers for on-farm trials and would arrange with
extension staff the supervision of some adaptive trials that
the research staff may not be able to cover (para
6.01(k)(i));
(b) the research-extension liaison officer would organize
regular-monthly and not less than quarterly workshops at
which the farming systems research team and such other
research specialists, as may be needed, would meet with
extension service subject matter specialists and extension
staff supervisors. The workshops would serve the dual
purpose of providing extension staff the latest research
recommendations for advisory work for that part of the
season; and extension staff acquainting the researchers with
problems encountered, which may need to be investigated
(pars 6.01(k)(ii)); and
(c) an annual research-extension workshop to be held at xonal
research stations would be arranged between senior research
and extension staff and farmers' representatives when the
research program planning takes place (par& 6.01(k)(iii))
to: ensure an input by farmers and the extension service in
the planning of the zonal research program; plan the
seasonal extension timetable and timing of the regular
research/extension workshops; and plan the on-farm trials
program. The agenda would be jointly developed by the PSR
team and senior extension staff working in the area.



- 32 -
4.10      The details of these research-extension linkage proposals may
need modification to fit in with arrangements to be worked out for the
forthcoming extension rehabilitation project. The project has been
appraised and changes will be equally incorporated into both projects.
D. Linkages with International and Regional Organizations
and with Sokoine University of Agriculture
4.11      Linkages with key international research centers dealing with
Tanzania's main crops and with livestock exist already. These would be
strengthened by more frequent visits by Tanzanian research staff,
participation in the international research programs conducted by these
centers, including acquisition of improved germplasm, and in the training
programs provided by the centers. The possibility of backstopping of
specific programs by individual centers would be explored during
preparation of the Master Plan as well as closer linkages with the regional
research organizations. Closer ties with the Sokoine University of
Agriculture would be fostered by possible contract research arrangements;
undertaking joint research tasks with the University; and making more use
of University library facilities.
E. Donor Coordination
4.12      Several donors are currently providing assistance to the research
services. However. coordination of donor assistance has been difficult in
the absence of a long term plan and identified priorities. The
establishing of SPAAR and its decision to play a major role in supporting
Tanzanian agricultural and livestock research will help greatly to bring
about effective donor coordination. Furthermore, SPAAR's main initial
involvement will be in the preparation of the Research Master Plan, giving
assurance that the donor community will have full access to the Plan for
use as the framework for future investments. The Plan would be readily
convertible into investment subprojects. This should generate considerable
donor interest at the time the Plan is completed, in supplementing project
funds for meeting identified investment needs. To institutionalize donor
coordination further, assurances were obtained that all donors would be
invited to an annual planning meeting to coordinate assistance for
agricultural and livestock research (para 6.01(1)).
F. Annual Work Program
4.13'     To help organize project implementation and to monitor progress,
annual work programs would be prepared by the new RTD. These would
include: (i) a review of project Implementation in the current year; (ii)
detailed description of work to be carried out in the forthcoming year
including objectives, deployment of staff and equipment; (iii) requirements
for additional staff equipment and inputs; (iv) requirements and
arrangements for teebnical assistance, and local and foreign training; and
(v) a budget and financing plan, including local and foreign currency
requirements and budgetary support from the Government. Assurances were
obtained that starting in 1989, the annual work program would be submitted
to IDA by September 30 each year, and would be carried,out taking IDA
comments into account (para 6.01(m)).



- 33 -
G.  Mid-Term Project Review
4.14      No later than 36 months after credit effectiveness a joint
Government/IDA mid-term project review would be held. Assurances were
obtained that (i) such review, to which all donors would be invited to
participate, would be held not later than October 31, 1991; and (ii) to
facilitate the review, the Government would prepare a mid-term review
report not later than August 31, 1991 with terms of reference to be agreed
with IDA (para 6.01(n)). It is envisaged that the report would cover:
progress in consolidating the research services and improving terms of
service of research staff; the recommendations of the master plan, in
particular with regard to priority research programs to be supported by the
research fund; and progress of research programs funded by the project.
Based on the results of the review, the Government and IDA would agree on
the use of the research fund atd on changes that may be needed to improve
project impact.
R.  Reporting and Monitoring
4.15      The Research and Training Department would prepare quarterly
reports, in a format acceptable to IDA, that would monitor the project's
financial and physical progress. When installed and operating, the new
management information system would be the source of monitoring data.
These reports should reach IDA not later than two months after the end of
each calendar quarter during the project period. In addition, within six
months of completing the project the Department would prepare a completion
report acceptable to IDA, that would deal with all aspects of the project
and would attempt to evaluate the benefits derived by farmers from adopting
research findings. Assurances that these reporting procedures would be
adopted were obtained (pars 6.01(o)).
4.16      The research program would be based on the Master Plan after it
has been completed. The Plan would also lay down the procedure for annual
updating. This would require annual program review by research staff at
various levels and updating of priorities to accord with available
resources and to determine trials to be continued or discontinued and new
trials to be started. Assurances were obtained that copy of the
review/planning document comprising the updated master plan would be
provided for IDA review by March 31 each year, starting with March 31, 1992
(para 6.01(p)(i)). In addition to internal evaluations, review by
independent panels has proved valuable to research establishments including
the International: Agricultural Research Centers. Assurances were obtained
that such review panel system would take place every four years and that
IDA would be consulted on the terms of reference and composition of the
review panel (para 6.01(p)(ii)). This should include international
research scientists, experts nominated by donors and nominees of MALD. The
costs of the review during the project period would be reimbursable from
project funds. Two such reviews would fit into the project period.



- 34 -
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justifications
5.01      The Project would result in major improvements in the
organization and management of Tanzania's agriculture and livestock
research system leading to more efficient and effective utilization of
resources allocated to research. Under the Project, new procedures would
be put in place for determining research priorities and for allocating
resources among and within programs. Additional major benefits of the
Project would be to enhance the quality of experimental work, sharpen the
focus on farmers' problems through improved research extension linkages and
provide support for dissemination of research findings in specific farming
situations. FSR work would pay special attention to seeking solutions to
constraints and problems faced by women farmers, who play such an important
role in Tanzanian agriculture. The Project would complement the activities
of the National Extension Rehabilitation Project that has recently been
appraised.
5.02      An economic rate of return calculation for this type of project,
with its emphasis on institutional development, has little meaning. The
technological improvements, the rate and extent of their adoption by
farmers and the productivity and output gains due to their application
cannot be accurately predicted and are likely to vary significantly across
agro-ecological zones. Moreover, future gains in productivity would be
attributable not merely to the adoption of technological innovations, but
to the combined impact of various support services (input supply,
extension, etc.) as well as to that of the general macroeconomic
environment. It is therefore planned that the Project's monitoring and
evaluation system would-develop a reliable data base for generating an
indicative analysis of the economic returns to various programs, as a
planning tool for adjusting research priorities among and within research
programs.
5.03      The justification for the proposed level of additional research
expenditures is reinforced by e rat evaluations of investments in
agricultural research in both developed and developing countries which have
virtually always shown high returns, exceeding 40% in most cases.2/
A recent cross-country comparison of East and West African countrres
suggests that similar, but somewhat lower returns have been obtained in
many of these countries and concludes that these are sufficiently
attractive to justify further investments, particularly when coupled with
improved extension.3/ Tanzania, which depends so heavily on agriculture
(para 1.05) must have access to constantly advancing agricultural
technology, to provide food to its growing population, improve rural
incomes and earn the foreign exchange needed by the country. Even if some
2/  Evanson R.E. and Kislev Y., Agricultural Research and Productivity,
Yale University Press, New Haven & London. 1975.
3/   Evanson, R.E. "Agricultural Research and Extension in Eastern and
Southern Africa: Comparisons with West Africa and Other Development
R;4ions" December 1986. A consultant paper prepared for the Regional
Workshop on Agricultural Research in Eastern and Southern Africa,
Nairobi, Kenya, December 11-16, 1986.



- 35 -
technology can be imported, it needs to be tested and, in most cases,
modified and adapted. Most often considerable research is needed to adapt
such technology to local conditions and the country cannot afford to be
without an effective research service. Consequently, the modest support to
rehabilitate and improve egricultural and livestock research is well
justified.
5.04      There would be major institution building benefits, by
consolidating the research services, the focus on improving management
capacity at all levels and introducing planning capacity that would
identify priorities and, based on such priorities, fit the research program
to the available resources. The Research Master Plan would represent a
suitable framework for according priority to research programs and resource
allocation to them, and for channeling donor finance to accord with
national priorities. By contrast at present, in the absence of clear
priorities, ad hoc investment decisions need to be taken.
S. Risks
5.05      The main risks would be organizational difficulties arising from
the consolidation of the research services, inadequate funding and possible
irrelevance of research results or lack of adoption by farmers. To avoid
problems on the first count, the project would finance a strong technical
assistance team to help Tanzanian staff to design and carry out the
consolidation process allied to intensive management training. The
consulting assistance would continue long enough to help design and install
improved management systems, including financial control, accounting and
management information systems and better research planning and recording
programs. On the second count, assurances would be obtained that aggregate
budget allocations for research to MALD would be maintained at present
levels, in real terms, as a minimum. On the third count, improved planning
to relate research to national priorities, close research-extension
linkages and intensified farming systems research should help to maintin
the relevance of the research program and encourage farmers' adoptio.  f
research findings.  Intensive local screening of research propoials an.
periodical program and results' review by an independent panel should also
help to maintain the relevance and quality of the research program. IDA
sector and economic discussions and future lending operations with focus
on incentives, inputs, supplies, extension and marketing snould contribute
towards enabling farmers to adopt research findings.
C. Environmental Effects
5.06      Research programs would be designed to develop technologies which
safeguard the agro-ecosystems. Sound integrated pest management practices
would be developed for major pests and diseases. Farming systems research
programs would develop recommendations to ensure optimum soil productivity
and conservation. Agroforestry programs that are likely to form part of
the second phase of the project would develop methodologies to maximize use
of integrated farming systems and aim to improve soil and water
conservation, reduce use of inorganic fertilizers, and increase food,
fuelwood, and fodder production. Further, the restoration of the diversity
of farming in Tanzania through research on mixed and rotational cropping
should also help to maintain or enhance soil fertility and decrease erosion
through better vegetation coverage of the soil.



- 36 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) With regard to consolidation of research serVices:
(i)    The Government would appoint staff to the positions of
commissioner and divisional heads in the Research and
Training Department during the project period; and
(ii)    An institutional arrangement satisfactory to IDA had been
made by the Government, for UAC by June 30, 1989, and to
study TPRI to determine whether or not TPRI's current
activities should be integrated into RTD (para 3.05);
(b)  The site for the new research headquarters would be identified by
November 15, 1988 and that acquisition and design will be
undertaken expeditiously so that construction can start not later
than June 30, 1989. (pars 3.07);
(c)  The HALD Training Division would prepare detailed training
proposals and details about selected candidates to be submitted
for IDA review by March 31, 1989, prior to finalization of
training arrangements (para 3.10);
(d)  All new subprojects to be funded through the Research Pund under
the Project costing more than US$100,000 each and that have been
approved by the Commissioner would be sent to IDA for review
(para 3.16);
(e) The Government would:
Mi)   Maintain the 1987/88 value in-real terms of its annual
contribution to the recurrent research budget;
(ii)   Jointly with IDA and other donors-review the research
budget annually; and
(iii) After acceptance of the master plan revise budget
allocations, if necessary, to accord with agreed
recommendations of the plan (para 3.19);
(f)  Procurement ptocedures described in paras 3.22-3.25 would be
followed (pars 3.21);
(g)  Accounting and auditing procedures described in pars 3.30 would
be followed; and the audit report would be sent for IDA review
within nine months of the end of the financial year (para 3.30);
(h)  The Research Advisory Council would be established by December
31, 1988 (para 4.02);
(i)  Further with regard to consolidation of research services:



- 37 -
(i) A plan and timetable for consolidating the research
services would be sent for IDA review not later than
six months after effectiveness; and
(ii) The agreed plan would be implemented according to its
timetable (para 4.03);
(j)    (i)  Consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
would be appointed to assist the working parties to draw
up the Research Master Plan; and
(il)  The completed plan would be sent for IDA review by
December 31, 1990 (para 4.06).
(k)  To ensure effective research-extension linkages:
(i)  A senior extension staff member would be seconded to each
FSR team to work as research-extension liaison officer;
(ii) He would organize regular monthly or not less than
quarterly workshops at which the FSR team and other
researchers, as needed, would meet with extension subject
matter specialists and supervisors; and
(iii) An annual workshop for senior research and extension staff
and farmers' representatives would be held at zonal
research stations at the time when research program
planning. takes place (para 4.09);
(1)  All donors would be invited to an annual planning meeting,to
coordinate assistance for agricultural and livestock research
(para 4.12);
(i)  An annual work program would be submitted to IDA by September 30
each year starting 1989 and would be carried out taking IDA
comments into account (para 4.13);
(n)    (i)  A joint Government-IDA mid-term review would be held not
later than October 31, 1991, to which all donors would be
invited to participate, and
(ii) To facilitate the review, the Government would prepare a
mid-term review report not later than August 31, 1991,
with terms of reference to be agreed by the Government and
IDA (para 4.14);
¶(o) Reporting procedures described in para 4.15 would be followed
(para 4.15);
(p) (i) The updated national annual research plan would be provided
for IDA review by March 31 each year, starting in 1992 (para
4.16); and



- 38 -
(ii) A review by an independent panel would be introduced to take
place every four years, and IDA would be consulted on the
terms of reference and composition of the review team (para
4.16).
6.02      It would be a condition of disbursement of the Research Fund
Component that any subproject costing more than US$100,000 had been
approved by IDA (para 3.16).
6.03      The following would be conditions of project effectiveness:
(a) The new Research and Training Department has been established
(para 3.05);
(b) The head of the new Research and Training Department and Division
Heads have been appointed (pars 3.05);
(c) All conditions precedent to the initial disbursement of the
United Kingdom's and the Federal German Republic's grant and the
effectiveness of the ADF loan have been fulfilled (para 3.19);
(d) The consolidation task force has been appointed on terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA; (para 4.03); and
(e) The Government, in consultation with IDA has set up the working
parties to prepare the Research Master Plan and (pare 4.06).
6.04      With these assurances and conditions the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 6.0 million (US$8.3 million) to the
Government of Tanzania on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



- 39 -
ASZr 1
TANZAUNI
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LTVESTOK=  USEARQMI PIDJEC?
Present Overall Organization Strncture of Agrleuitural and Livestock eserch
tinister for             Minister for Pinanee,            KiAister of
Agriculture              Economic Affaits and              Edcation
and Livestock                 nPanning
Development               a iona  ei
Pr  a                    Pripal           -
l                 ~~~~~~Secretary
Pr
Secretary
Natiori Gowmf oiss            Sokoine University
Internal-         puty            for Sciene nd                       of
Audit          Principal           Technology                    Agriculture
.          l l~~~ecetr
IHp_ r Develop-    Reseach and          f Research Parast tals |
ment and AdaLnias-      Training  I                                     No  ties
tration Directorate     Directoraste    T D    TIM    TPL                Depautmnt
- AdmInistration      - Agriul-.tral -
Research 
- Personnel           - Livestock    Agriltural  Pti                            et
Re#>sesc     Reeach        Beseoch            keparstSon, 6
- Ag                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~Mbaltoriag
-Accounting         - grcultura1  Instirtut s    Instlo utDuream
Imnlemxmts and Osntre
- Acouning-  X                 "uz:i:                           - Project Preparation
Research                                    -          ioj nitroorong
-  ga'l               -  Training Ins-                  Uht
titutes            Resetock   Agrl lte  -  Pojaet Mbnitoritg
(Agriculture       Paseh   sd live-             Uht
6 Livestock)       Isttutes  stock          - Pt
- Other 9xternal        &d Cuttes  sewch
S t<:al                        Cantre S     1 8etoral li
Training                       Sttions        ning &
|(Agriculture)|
- Policy Analysis Unit
- Plaing Unit
- Ebxerml Assistance
Unit
- Statistics and Parm
M  aIsunt Unit
$ectoral Plan-
ning & Control
Section
(lvestock)
MMIIS:  1. This orgnwogam  only ineludes those MALD units
connected or concerned with agricultural and               - Policy Analysis Uhit
livestock research.                                        - Planning Unit
- External Assistance Unit
- Statistics and Tar Manage-
ment Uhit



m  I  I    r _       ' 
U~E I} X                           Ii0
.1                       ,11
EHW g~~~~~~~~~~~~



EtL LE
U.     I        e qfJ_Y.I1ll
£~~~~~~1 -
I~~~~~~~~               '            I



- 42 -
TAWAM                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~IM?
._~~~~~~K 4.
MUOKL AGRIULTURAL AND LrVX$TO  RZ8ULU   PWWZCI
PTnt Organitation SMttum of W
mAitrr Of|
Agri-ucture omds
Ltwvstock Dav.l
Director                                 Boar
lAsearcI                                                                                     if
C aid                                Dtrector
TrraiiA
- bnmta kmh           - d4Offc   erie                 Issues                   - Ailheein
Trainjus Institute  ftroomal and     PA      Department        - Anmal  Institutey
- Secutity                   - StOref Accotue  Dfofe
Libra     |         Nestnac Sect    io n  |gic |   n                                    ogt 
dStor       Off              Senior Accoatmat             Ressorch C   lborato
'inmi SC4                                         UPOUUM                      nut.  tecn
mm scomw                    mmIitenca             Geer                       Food IM  stecbmlog
Agri_.. I 'S. St Sons                                     Stock ed                  - Ag .   -sgie
- Trdnia. &M. tttrauor Sersmtl rmss FW  Sptlemo
{=-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hioQt                                          Prst-aducda
Institute ?",M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  atuePrdcto
!===~~~~~~~ua  ot'Pd_                      _u    Oficr                          Rea ch offift
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mm _   l .h
- CF trop Se-hC
_bvM          _        t1ateac= SW4-                         bipaidi e. _                     es
ot:--i   denotes fucioa repnIblith, 1-OY.                              _                     t1
Wrr In    ffitut    Fanmi                                                              odUhb
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gf. be    I
_  .      hh. Offtear                   &pp  af¢"                 l~~~~~~~j4pch a £fSr im
atm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Hth IOw
Note       & wfntoa. ne oIt .II



- 43 -
TANZANI                                      AnnI
_~~~~~~~~~QA  S
NATIa".^L A:I-TcURtAL AND LIVSSTOCK RESZAJ=  PRW-
Present Organization Structure of TPRI
Minister for
Agriculture
and Livestock
Development
I  TRI Council
Director
Internal Auditor-  -          Legal Section
Llbrary
-~~~~~~~
N nance1 and                              Research                              oebacanlc
Administration                       I   D :eatt                              __ep _t_m_t
Department    CIief Research                                               Cilef Scieatific
Menager                                  Officer                               Officer
Personnel and                               Agricultural esearch
-  Administration                                     Division
Division
Principal Research              National
Principal Officer                                   Officer                    Herbarium
- Accounts Division                             Chemical and Physical
Research Division.
&hef Accountant   (VAC)
.  .                          Principal Research                Plant
Officer                   Quarantine
Purchasing and
_upply Division
I Officer                                         a  Vtiay
MedicO fad Viteretrry
Research Division                Pesticide
)    -4tegistrationj
principal Research
Officer
NoTe: (VAC) signifies that the post concerned is vacant.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 3
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Consolidation of Research Services
1.       This description of the consolidated research and training
services gives an outline of proposals and more details about the direction
of the core organization at Headquarters. The consolidated Research and
Training Department would be directed by a Commissioner reporting directly
to the Principal Secretary for Agriculture and Livestock Development. As
briefly described below, the research and training work would be largely
decentralized to zonal research and training centers, but there would be a
strong headquarters unit to plan, coordinate and monitor the decentralized
program and ensure that it adheres to priorities established by the
Research Master Plan as amended annually.
Proposed Organizational Structure
2.        The proposed reorganization of the agricultural and livestock
research system would be based on a set of objectives and principles (see
Appendix 1 to this Annex) which among other things take into account the
existing national agricultural policies.
3.       TARO, TALIRO, UAC and the research section of MALD would form the
new Research and Training Department (RTD) of MALD.  TALIRO's six
Veterinary Investigation Centers perform mainly service function and may be
transferred to MALD's Livestock Department. TARO, TALIRO, and the MALD
research units would be amalgamated first. UAC, would be integrated into
the new structure in due course. It would continue to function as at
present for some time and would most likely become the zonal research unit
for the Southern Zone in the future. Its funding arrangements and working
relationship with Finnida would not be affected. In view of its many
regulatory functions, TPRI would be reviewed during the restructuring
process and during the preparation of the Research Master Plan to determine
how and by whom its present research work can be done most effectively.
4.        The main research effort would come from zonal research centers.
They would have considerable autonomy and it is envisaged that they would
operate on broadly similar lines to UAC. Each zonal center would be
managed by a director reporting to the Commissioner Research and Training.
The Director would be assisted by a broadly based management committee
appointed by the minister MALD that would coopt experts from other MALD
branches (e.g., extension, irrigation), from other zonal research and
training centers committees and from other departments. Details would be
worked out in connection with the preparation of the Master Plan (Annex
4). Under the Research Master Plan, the country would be divided into
about six or seven zones corresponding to broadly homogenous
agroecological/geographical areas, and one existing research institute



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
would be nominated as the lead institute for each sone. The director would
be responsible for all other research and training centers and stations in
the zone carrying out related applied and adaptive research and
agricultural and livestock related training. Each zone would have an FSR
team. Definition of zone boundaries, final identification of lead
institutes, the potential zonal role of livestock research institutes,
together with the number, location and functions of other research centers
and subsidiary stations to be retained, or closed, would be determined
along with an implementation schedule during the preparation of the
Research Master Plan.
5.        The zonal research centers would be responsible for all aspects
of research, with spec;al emphasis on location-specific adaptive research
requiring close collaboration between commodity research teams, the FSR
team and MALD extension personnel operating In the zone. Zonal centers
would also be responsible for national commodity research institutes, that
have a national (rather than tonal) mandate. The national research tease
for each specific commodity would be concentrated at such institutes. They
would design and evaluate nation-wide trials to be conducted by centers in
the other zones, where the specific commodity is of economic or scientific
interest. While most of such national institutes would fit into the zonal
system, there may be some that would benefit fro% central administration.
Appropriate recommendations on this issue would be made during preparation
of the Master Plan. Directors of centrally admintstered national
institutes would report to the Assistant Commissioner Crops or Livestock,
as appropriate.
6.        The Department would be headed by a commissioner who would be
responsible to the Principal Secrr -ry of MALD for the achievement of
agreed objectives, policles, plans ind budgets. He would be assisted by
the following division or unit heads:
- Assistant Commissioner Crop Research, responsible for assisting
the Commissioner, as directed, in the overall management of all
tonal centers, institutes and stations undertaking applied and
adaptive crops and soils research. He would assume particular
rasponsibility for any national crops research institutes not
included in the zonal system and would ensure that national
programs located in zonal centers are properly conceived,
planned, resourced and executed. He would cooperate with the
central farming systems research unit in the identification,
development, planning and execution of multidisciplinary adaptive
research - and other types of farming systems research.
- Assistant Commissioner Livestock Research, whose responsibilities
would be in principle, identical to those of the Assistant
Commissioner Crops Research except that he would deal with any
national livestock research institutes that would need to be
centrally administered and with the central direction of
livestock aspects of farming systems research. Both officers
should be supported, if workload demands it, by one or more
scientific advisors in specialized disciplines or commodity areas
(see Appendix 2);
- Assistant Commissioners Training, responsible for assisting the
Commissioner, as indicated, in the overall management of the



-46 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Ministry of Agriculture Training Institutes and Livestock
Industry Training Institutes attached to zonal centers or
national institutes. He would be responsible overall for the
technical context of the course material and the competence of
lecturing staff. He would also be directly responsible for all
aspects of the training and development of professional and
technical cadres of research staff both in Tanzania and abroad;
- Senior Research Officer, Farming Systems Research. Based in
headquarters, this officer would be responsible for developing
FSR and other programs of multicommodity adaptive research in
consultation with the Assistant Commissioner for Crops and
Livestock, and directors of zonal centers and institutes. The
execution of such programs would be the responsibility of xonal
FSR staff which he would support technically, as required;
- Director,  upport Servces based in headquarters, responsible for
providing technical and information services, including. soil
and land use survey; biometrics; analytical chemistry;
agricultural engineering; library, information services and
research documentation; computer services (technical advice and
backup for computer systems which would be largely
user-dedicated);
- Read of the Research Planning and Evaluation Unit situated in the
Commissioner's office, would have a dual role: (a) to provide
planning services to the Department in the 4evelopment and
maintenance of the national agriculturai and livestock research
master plan that would establish retearch priorities and
allocation of funds; and (b) to establish and maintain the
research management information system and to assist the research
institutes, centers and support units to establish priorities at
project and program levels. This unit would also assist research
and other managers to prepare development and recurrent budget
estimates for proposed programs and projects, and would assist
senior departmental management to monitor and evaluate the
performance of the new research system;
Head of the Finance, and Administration Unit, also situated In
the Commissioner's office, responsible for maintaining the
accounting system and records, including those for externally
funded projects, and providing timely management reports and
financial accounts.  He would ensure that annual bWdgets were
correctly prepared and presented to the management. He would
also arrange the proper disbursement of all research funding and
staff pay. He would also be responsible for maintaining
personnel records and related management information and for all
aspects of personnel administration. He would have overall
responsibility for the procurement (with local currency and
foreign exchange, and using GOT or donor funds), needed items of
recurrent and capital expenditure. He would also ensure
provision of office and transport services and the recording and
maintenance of assets such as buildings and vehicles, furniture
and equipment.
Internal and external audit of the Research and Training
Department would be provided as arranged by MALD.



-47 -A &                                              2
Chart
TANZANIA
NATIONAL ArRICULTURAL AND LIEOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Propoe 0ganlaltn of he Ressorch and Trang Dimt, MALD
I Monld of P f                j       MIN1  OR
Eduo~      |     ad P "g                         INEV     DJEvOPM
ifPlulr       bfa Sciene9 & Teh
|   I                                  .
soie  .n N  Nabect  Mar
-poucy atlc          g                 >
doo#on d luneb                                               A * r*fla
- Pecmc psbanc
no                     _
Raroch Pkn   M-o
-duw o n             - msewjch poWam!
of reh la-d*W/       costin budgefin 
ufdWiI mas              dni~en          I  in
upda" ffK    : - *Ccwoowcut         I
-stores accom        I
-fixd asso o0ceO
- -rc09 * aes         I
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hlpr c .                                                       . 
ASsi. C4ffordvicW        AO. Cwomissoow          AnOMsi Cant  io.  .                .   .
Cres "eSea"c             uVellock Re                  wi"                                            M
- genwera  ieaoc        - genera wwontmc-rwrt   ftaIno                         Dlrectars Zono   - SW~ Wi lwe m v
uvw                     kopwonsion trohm-OI                                ReseacPh & Ta*"ing    - ana     chefmftl
-  csta"o m In          - assance to C  in           dOm  cortmcate           cn- _   .                     h
nooo        d ZRTCs        m    svown of ZRtCs                                  WC)             servo  dounwffi
-~~~~~~~~~~~ -bumetdo
HeOd do
Fain S~i                                              - ofpUier  s~
Rwuch
Dectors            - d
NatlcW Research IsiUttes    djpe*lon d FSR
efstock
-Nlolson wth
eoteln w~ce
1. ReseCh bntue casderd dukong Mseq Plan deelpmen to be unsutable as ZRTC
ar to rpoat to ZRTCS Vuld be desiated  onab Research Inhs  (NRI).
2 -- - - Sitnes nformto I,ter
*,                                                                                                              O    WUtO9



-48 -                               ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESBARCH PROJECT
Research ObJectives and Prineiples
The revised organization structure and management system for
national agricultural and livestock research has been based on the
following objectives and principles, most of which were defined in the
Tanzanian National Agricultural Policy Final Report dated October 1982.
(a) Research should be consolidated and coordinated at the
national level.
(b) Agricultural and livestock research organizations should be
redesigned to economize on costs in order to provide
increased funding for the productive aspects of research.
(c) Research programs should be based on agro-ecological
considerations.
(d) Agricultural research should adopt a far2-centered
problem-solving approach to arrive at relevant extension
packages.
(e) Research must take place with full farmer support since
farmers know best what problems confront them. Research
institutes should have balanced farm-based and station-based
research programs.
(f) E4ucation and training facilities should be expanded so that
research manpower needs are met by planned recruitment and
staff development.
(g) Government agricultural research funding should be increased
to reflect the importance of research in agricultural
development.
(h)   A well stocked documentation ceater should be established
for the whole agricultural sector, and should disseminate
agricultural research findings nationally and
internationally.
(i)  The following information and materials should be made
available to agricultural producers and supporting services:
-    appropriate, reliable and detailed agronomic
information for increased productivity with adequate
protection of the resource base;
-    improved materials and prototypes on which to base
increased production of crops, farm animals, trees; and



-49 -                               ANMX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
-    technologies to desal with biological hazards (pests,
diseases, weeds, etc.)
(j) Technical and socio-ecoaomic information for planning
purposes should be made available to governmental and
industrial decision makers. This would include:
-    information on new agricultural production
opportunities (crops, animals, trees) for different
agro-ecological zones,
-    technical information on storage, processing, transport
and handling of produce to minimize post-harvest
losses, and
; - estimates of land, labor, agronomic inputs, and capital
needed to carry out national plans.



so -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Draft Job Descriptions for Senior Research Managers
A. Commissioner Research and Training
1. Responsible to: Principal Secretary MALD
2. Job Purpose:
To ensure: that all agricultural and livestock research and training
is planned and carried out efficiently and effeevively according to
national policies and priorities; that appropriate research results
are translated into practical packages for farmers and agribusiness in
response to their needs, and are passed to farmers via extension
staff; and that needs of farmers and other users of research results
are systematically identified. To ensure that effective and efficient
two way working relationships with the extension services are
developed.
3. Main Responsibilities:
-    to develop and recommend policy and objectives for the Department
(particularly relating to research priorities) to the Principal
Secretary; to ensure that approved policy and objectives are
implemented;
-    in accordance with national policies for agriculture and
agricultural research, to ensure that research program priorities
are derived and a five year Research Master Plan is developed and
updated annually ensuring that the requirements of the Research
Master Plan are implemented;
-    establishing and maintaining an appropriate and cost effective
organization structure; ensuring that his managers and staff are
properly qualified, and competent; ensuring regular review of
staff performance and corrective action in the event of
inadequacy; ensuring that his managers, in undertaking their
responsibilities, delegate, monitor, assess performance and
follow-up in the same way;
-    ensuring the development and maintenance of a five year training
plan for managers and staff; making sure that this plan is
implemented;
-    ensuring generally that policies and objectives and annual plans
and budgets, agreed by MALD, are translated into instructions to
his immediate subordinate managers; ensuring that such
instructions are carried out when and to the standard required;
-    maintaining at his level close contact with other MALD
departments, and ensuring effective collaboration with extension
services;



-51-                                      ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 2
ensuring, where needed, that appropriate regulations, and
financial, personnel and administrative procedures are developed,
documented, distributed appropriately and are complied with;
ensuring that the research planning, programming, budgeving and
evaluation system operates efficiently and effectively, and that
the planned and budgeted research and support activities are
carried out as planned and within budget;
ensuring the provision of accurate and adequate manangement
information (technical, financial, etc.) to the Principal
Secretary, himself and his subordinate managers;
-    chairing the Technical Committee for annually allocating funds to
research centers, and approving research projects;
-    ensuring that an appropriate scheme of service is maintained and,
in accordance with MALD procedure, that staff are appointed,
promoted, disciplined and terminated.
B. Assistant Commissioner Crops Research or Livestock Research
1. Responsible to:  Commissioner Research and Training
2. Job Purpose:
To assist the Commissioner Research and Training to ensure that
applied and adaptive research is planned and carried out efficiently
and effectively and in accordance with plans and budgets. To ensure
that needs of research users (farmers, agribusiness, etc.) are
identified and that research programs are designed to meet these
needs.
3. Main responsibilities:
-    to develop and recommend policy and objectives in his area of
responsibility; to ensure that approved policy and objectives are
implemented;
-    to ensure as directed by the Commissioner that the research
institutes and centers in his area of expertise propose, plan,
execute, monitor and evaluate research projects in accordance
with budgets and departmental procedure and regulations;
personally reviewing their activities by reports (technical and
financial) and from visits to ensure adequate quality and
timeliness of research, and correcting substandard performance
(technical or financial);
-    advising the Department Head and directors of research institutes
on scientific and technical matters in his area of expertise;
ensuring the maintenance of professional standards among the
research staff under his control;



-    -                                   ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 3
ensuring the development and maintenance of a training plan for
Ninistry of Agriculture Training Institutes, and Livestock
Training Institutes; ensuring that available funds are used most
advantageously so that training capacity is adequate to meet
demand and that the plan is implemented;
as a member of the Technical Committee allocating resources to
centers and subsequently approving projects proposed by centers;
liaising with the Central Farming Systems Research Unit on
matters concerning the planning, budgeting and execution of
adaptive research and farming systems research in particular;
ensuring full cooperation by institutes and centers in his area
of expertise with FSR staff based at headquarters; ensuring the
effective transfer of research findings to extension staff and
thence to farmers and vice versa;
ensuring that full use is made of the resources of the
international and regional research institutions;
-    in conjunction with the Assistant Commissioner Training
developing a training plan for staff in his area of expertise;
-    ensuring, as directed by the Commissioner that institutes and
centers in his area of expertise comply with all financial and
administrative regulations and procedure.
C. Assistant Commissioner Training
1. Responsible to: Commissioner Research and Training
2. Job Purpose:
To assist the Commissioner to:
-    ensure that, adequate training programs to cater for such needs
are planned and executed, arrange and carry out internal and
overseas staff training both by NALD and other training
institutions, and ensure the optimum use and cost effective and
efficient operation of the Ministry of Agriculture Training
Institutes and the Livestock Training Institutes.
3. Main Responsibilities
Similar to those of the other two Assistant Commissioners but with
focus on training and training institutes rather than crop or
livestock research; some aspects of his responsibilities remain to be
refined.
D. Head of the Research Planning and Evaluation Unit
1. Responsible to: Commissioner Research and Training



-53                                    ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 4
2. Job Purpose:
To design and implement a planning, programming, monitoring and
evaluation system for agricultural and livestock research, and to
ensure that its procedures are complied with by research management
and staff. To assist departmental management via the above system to
develop and annually update a national agricultural and livestock
research master plan, and annually to plan, budget and evaluate
research.
3. Main responsibilities:
-    to design and document procedures for research planning,
programming, monitoring and evaluation and ensure they are
correctly implemented; to continually improve the procedures in
the light of experience; to ensure that all research personnel
comply with the requirements of the system.
-    to develop a program for regularly evaluating the performance of
the research institutes with the assistance of external
assessors; to ensure that assessments are carried out and
reported to the Board, and that those agreed are implemented;
-    to establish and document the responsibilities and procedures of
t'e Researen Planniag a-uu Zvaluation Unit and ensure that the
staff perform their tasks in accordance with theii job
descriptions and procedures;
-    to initiate the annual planning and reporting cycle and receive
all project proposals and reports;
-    to advise the Commissioner annually on the priorities to be
ebserved when the annual research plan and budget is prepared; to
similarly advise Divisional Directors and directors of research
institutes and centers at program and project level (these
priorities would be derived from GOT policy and the application
of a methodology to be developed for the preparation of the
research master plan);
-    in conjunction with the Read of Finance, and Administration Unit
to assist research managers to prepare fully costed reesarch
program proposals for annual recurrent and development budgets;
-    to prepare project proposals and reports received from research
centers in conjunction with the Assistant Commissioners Crop
Research and Livestock Research, for presentation to the
Technical Committee; to administer the preparation, annual
updating and distribution of the five year Research Master Plan;
-    to work closely with the Technical Committee in evaluating the
conduct of research at institutes;
-    to act as secretary to the Technical Committee.



- 5                                  ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 5
E. Head of the Finance and Administration Unit
1. Responsible to: Commissioner Research and Training
2. Job Purpose:
To ensure the provision of efficient and effective services to the
Department in the following main areas: financial and cost accounting
and financial management information; budgeting; control of external
finance; personnel and administration; procurement and stores; asset
maintenance (buildings, vehicles and equipment); transport and office
services.
3.  Main responsibilities:
-    to develop and recommend policy and objectives in each of his
areas of responsibility; and to ensure that approved policy is
implemented and objectives achieved;
-    to maintain the accounting system at headquarters!and in the
regions, ensuring that the financial and cost accounting
information provided accords with the needs of the Department's
management, and is produced when due; keeping current and
ensuring observance of the financial regulations and procedures;
liaising with internal and external auditors and ensuring that
agreed recommendations are implemented;
-    in conjunction with the Read of the Research Planning and
Evaluation Unit, to insure the correct preparation and review of
the annual budget proposals; presenting these to MALD;
-    to maintain adequate records and control of externally provided
funds;
-    to ensure that research planning and programming, and procurement
procedures interface with accounting procedures;
-    to maintain employee records and provide personnel information
for RTD senior officers when required;
-    to maintain an annual staff performance appraisal system and
ensure that it is correctly used;
-    to ensure the economic procurement of all approved goods,
materials, services, etc. (1) sanctioned by MALD and (2) funded
by donors, in local or foreign exchange; to ensure that goods,
services, etc. ordered are delivered;
-    to ensure that assets are properly maintained;
-    to provide transport and office services for RTD head office;
-    to ensure that all procedures are documented in manuals and are
used for staff training.



55                            ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 6
P. Head of Farming Systems Research
1. Responsible to: Commissioner Research and Training
2. Job Purpose:
To ensure the development and promulgation of programs of adaptive
agricultural and livestock research with particular emphasis on
farming systems research (FSR) that will provide financially
attractive and sustainable yields without environmental damage.
3.  Main responsibilities:
-    to develop and recommend policy and objectives in.his area of
responcibility, and ensure that approved policy and objectives
are implemented;
-    to develop, in accordance with the requirements of the research
master plan and in conjunction with Assistant Commissioners Crops
Research and Livestock Research and the directors of zonal
research and training centers and associated stations,
environmentally sound programs of multidisciplinary, single or
multi-commodity FSR for all crops and livestock areas; to assist
with the preparation of cost budgets for PSR programs;
-    to support FSR programs by supervising and advising FSR personnel
at institutes and centers; to be functionally responsible for FSR
personnel at institutes and centers and directly responsible for
PSR personnel based at headquarters;
-    to ensure generally that adaptive research is implemented
according to agreed plans and budgets; to ensure, through FSR
research programs, close working relationships between the
research and extension service;
-    to promote the value of FSR with both research and extension
staff and arrange and carry out training programs as required; to
work with the Assistant Commissioners of Crop Research and
Livestock Research in identifying joint programs of FSR at
specific locations;
-    to assist with the identification of staff for PSR.



- 56                      ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 7
0. Director, Support Services
1. Responsible to: Commissioner Research and Training
2. Job Purpose:
To ensure the provision, efficiently and effectively, of the
sctentific support services identified below, for use of staff of the
Research Department and related organizations as authorized.
3. Main responsibilities:
-    to develop and recommend policy and objectives in his area of
responsibility; to ensure that approved policy is implemented and
objectives achieved;
-    in conjunction with Assistant Commissioners of Crop Research and
Livestock Research and the directors of zonal research and
training centers and of research institutes, to determine the
need for, and the distribution/location of, scientific support
services including inter alia: soil and land use survey;
analytical chemistry; library, information and documentation
services; biometrics; agricultural engineering; and computer
services;
----  to ensure tat-earvives7 ate provi4*4 W  tecording -to need,
efficiently and effectively, from adequate facilities, correctly
staffed;
-    to ensure that support services at research centers are
adequately supervised by research center management;
-    to ensure that support services made available to other
organizations are properly costed and charged for.
R. Director, Zonal Research and Training Center
1. Responsible to: Commissioner Research and Training
2. Job Purpose:
To direct and manage all aspects of the zonal center and associated
institutes, stations, substations and training institutes, and to ensure
the effective execution of zonal and national research and training
programs according to the approved national and zonal research and training
plans. In particular: to identify farmers' needs, and to identify research
to meet these needs which are within the capacity and competence of the
center and associated stations, having due regard for the environmental
impact of the research proposed. To ensure that the center proposes,
plans, costs, executes, monitors and evaluates, applied and adaptive
agricultural and/or livestock research as directed by the approved research
plan. To ensure, generally, that research is executed efficiently and
effectively; and that due attention is given to the transfer of research
results to extension staff and farmers, and feedback from farmers and
extension staff to research. To ensure -that training in the zonal
institutes is carried out in accordance with MALD policy and guidelines.



57                       ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 8
3. Ml4n responsibilities:
-    to ensure preparation, through subordinate research managers, of
annual research and training programs and budgets (recurrent and
development) in accordance with indicative budget allocations
received from headquarters; allocating funds to projects and
selecting projects as advised by the center's research management
committee (of which the director is chairman); cooperating with
the head of FsR in the preparation of adaptive research projects;
-    through his subordinate managers, ensuring the execution of
projects and subprojects according to plan and within budget;
ensuring that equipment, personnel and material/supplies are
available when required; ensuring that multi-commodity FSR
programs are efficiently and effectively performed and that staff
from other centers and units are properly supervised;
-    ensuring that terminal reports of research and training projects
and subprojects and programs are delivered to the potential user;
following up on the use made of them;
- -ensuring regular communication with members of the local
agricultural community and its supporting business sector and
that research undertaken at his center is, where locally
directed,- resp odi-ig-to local Deeds- -
-    ensuring that all management reports (technical, financial, etc.)
and returns are submitted to headquarters when due;
-    ensuring that all personnel, accounting, procurement, maintenance
and administrative procedures are efficiently and effectively
performed;
-    with his subordinate managers identifying training needs of
research and training staff in the zone and reporting those which
cannot be satisfied in the zone to headquarters; undertaking
in-service and on-the-job training in the zone;
I. Scientific Advisor
1. Responsible to: Assistant Commissioner Crop Research or Assistant
Commissioner Livestock Research, as appropriate.
2. Job Purpose:
To advise respective Assistant Commissioners on all matters pertaining
to the research and management of the research program or institutes
in his area of scientific activity.
3. Job Grade: PSO I or II



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 9
to advise the Assistant Commissioners on scientific priorities in
his activity area in light of scientific and economic criteria;
to advise the Assistant Commissioners on management of research
programs and institutes in his activity area;
to advise the Assistant Commissioners on personnel and equipment
needs related to each activity in his area;
to ensure the maintenance of professional standards and
performance in his activity area;
to assist the Head of the Planning and Evaluation Unit in
research planning, programirtng and evaluation in his scientific
activity area; and, as necessary, ln development and subsequent
revision of the Master Plan;
to maintain contact with departmental scientists in his activity
area and ensure their awareness of scientific and agricultural
developments in Tanzania and abroad;
to maintain contact with the international centers to assess
their research findings for application to Tanzania;
to maintain contact with agro-industry, veterinary products
Industry, processors and forming groups as appropriate in
Tanzania and to assess their need for research support;
to advise, with the Assistant Commissioners' Crops or Livestock
approval, zonal centers' and station directors in scientific and
management aspects of research in his activity area;
to work closely with the other scientific advisors in exercising
the above functions and other research management functions as
may be required; and
to assist in the conduct of external reviews of the institutes or
stations of the Department.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
TANZANIA
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project
Organization and Management Consultancy Terms of Reference
Objectives
To assist a Tanzanian task force (to be appointed) to design, (in detail)
and help set up a new consolidated Research and Training Department (to
undertake agricultural and livestock research, and to train professional
and technical staff in reseArch and extension) within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development (MALD). The new Department would
result from the amalgamation of TARO, TALIRO, UAC, the MALD Directorate of
Research and Training and possibly all or parts of TPRI, the latter
depending on the recommendations of a Master Plan to be prepared under the
IDA-assisted project and of this consultancy and the task force.
Scope of Work
The consultants would assist the Tanzania task force to:
(i) design the structure and main systems of the new consolidated
Research and Training Department (RTD) by specifying and
documenting in detail:
(a) the number, type, functions and staff composition of divisions
and sections in RTD, head office,
(b) the responsitJlities and authority in job descriptions, and
person specitcations, of all staff positions in head office;
also membership and TOR of all committees;
(c) staff recruitment, compensation and training policies;
assistance would be provided to the Master Plan preparation
team in preparing an inventory of none-research management and
support staff and in developing a training and recruitment
plan;
(d) the research planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation
system to be used in head office, zones and other locations;
(e) the accounting, management information and administrative
(especially procurement) systems to be used in head office,
zones and other locations;
(f) in conjunction with the Master Plan group of consultants and
Tanzanian {cientists (who would undertake the bulk of the
work): the organization structure, staffing (responsibilities
and authority in job descriptions, plus specifications), and
committees in zonal research and training, centers and stations,
and in national institutes and stations (if any); if and by
whom the present functions of TPRI should be carried out;



-60-                            ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
(g) the technical and administrative linkages between the new RTD
and other parts of MALD - particularly extension - and
additional government and other agencies or institutions (e.g.,
the Sokoine University of Agriculture); and
(h) the administrative and technical linkages between RTD head
office and the research stations (the specific extent and
nature of the future research station system is, as mentioned
in (f) above, to be identified in the Master Plan).
(ii) Implement the design in (i) by:
(a) advising RTD's management on all aspects and at all stages from
initial planning, to staff training, and monitoring/evaluating
results; and
(b) assisting with overseeing the location study, design and
construction of a new RTD headquarters building and in
organizing the transfer of staff, furniture and equipment to
the new facility.
(iii) Undertake a study to assess the feasibility of computerizing the
proposed research management and accounting systems of the
consolidated RTD and, if feasible, provide system specifications,
evaluate tenders, and assist with implementation.
A study to establish the optimum site for a RTD headquarters facility would
be carried out, under the project, by local consultants.
DuionAssit
The Organization and Management Specialist and Research Management and
Planning Specialist should be in place within a month of the appointment of
the Tanzania restructuring task force if possible and no later than
December 31, 1988. The other consultants would be appointed as
necessary. Some may be available in Tanzania from consultants appointed
under other projects.
Consultants Required
To accomplish the above ambitious change program, it is envisaged that the
lead consultant (Organization and Management Specialist) would be present
for the duration of the consulting work in restructuring. In view of the
major structural and systems changes anticipated, he should have
restructuring experience and preferably be knowledgeable generally about
agricultural and livestock research. Other specialists would be required
in support, namely: (i) a research management and planning specialis'; (ii)
a finance and accounting specialist; (iii) a procurement specialist; (iv)
others to be specified but probably including a personnel/administrative
specialist. It is thought that a consulting firm able to provide the
experts in all the above disciplines end are"a of experience would tend to
produce a better outcome than would the recruitment of individual
specialists.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
The estimated total and individual involvement of consultants would be as
follows:
Man Month
Organization and management specialist                        60
Research management and planning specialist                   24
Finance and accounting specialist                             24
Procurement specialist                                        18
Computer specialist                                            a
Unspecified                                                   24
Total                                                        158
It would be the job of the lead consultant together with the task force
leader and the Commissioners, RTD to agree on the detail of the remaining
consulting assistance within six months of the project effective date.
Terms of Reference for Individual Consultants
1.       Organization and Management 8pecialist
Under the general supervision of the Commissioners, RTD, he would
be responsible for supervising and advising on the planning and
implementation of the Project overall, for the quality and
timeliness of consulting work and for coordinating, with the
Master Plan team leader, the work of the-two teams as required.
His specific responsibilities would include:
(a)  ensuring that other consultants' tasks are planned and carried out
in accordance with the overall project timetable, and that planned
project accounting, monitoring and reporting procedures are
introduced and complied with;
(b)  to assist together with the other consultants, the task force
to carry out tasks (i)(a) to (i)(c), (i)(f) to (i)(h), (ii)(a) and
(ii)(b) in the Scope of work section above. He would have
particular responsibility for advising on and supervising all
organization, management, personnel and systems aspects of
structuring the new RTD, in both the planning and execution
stages.I* He would ensure, through appropriate management and
staff training, that to the extent possible, RTD is a fully
functioning self-sustaining entity by the end of his consulting
assignment;
(c)  within seven months of his appointment, to have 'pecified the
structure and main systems of the new RTD, in collaboration with
the task force and fellow consultants, and to have drawn up a plan
to implement the above over a two year period;
(d) assisting with the arrangement of management training for senior
and middle level research managers;



ANNEX 3
- 62 -                         Page 4 of 7
The Organization and Management Specialist should be a graduate or have a
recognized professional qualification and must be an experienced
organization and management consultant who has successfully undertaken or
participated in previous major reorganization, preferably in agriculture or
agricultural research. Business management qualification would be an
advantage as would experience in developing countries and Africa in
particular. Previous experience of externally funded projects would be
useful.
2.    Research Management and Planning Specialist
Under the general supervision of the Commissioner, RTD, and the
lead consultant, this specialist would be responsible for the detailed
design and implementation of an improved research manag-ment system and
would act as adviser to the Head of the Research Planning and Evaluation
Unit when appointed.
His specific responsibilities would include:
(a) reviewing the proposed research planning and evaluation procedures
(including proposals put forward by the IDA preparation mission),
and detail designing procedures, reports etc.; designing an
appropriate research monitoring and evaluation system with a
database for generating indicative analysis of program economic
returns;
(b) developing, with the leader of the Research Master Plan consulting
team (i) a framework for developing and updating the Plan and (ii)
a methodology and detailed procedures for determining priorities
in agricultural and livestock research, and ensuring that these
procedures are applied in the preparation of the Plan;
(c) assisting with the specificstion and selection of the required
recearch planning staff; acting as adviser to the Head of the
Research Planning and Evaluation Unit and Commissioner Research
and Training in a'l matters concerning planning, monitoring and
evaluation of resea.-ch;
(d)  progressively implementing, through the Head of the Research and
Evaluation Unit, the new research management (planning,
monitoring, evaluation) system in accordance with the current
implementation schedule;
(e) ensuring with the finance and accounting specialiist: that research
planning, monit.ring and evaluation procedures interface
efficiently with accounting procedures.
He should have an honors degree and postgraduate qualification in
agriculture, agricultural science or agricultural economics. Business
management qualifications would be an advantage. At least ten years
relevant experience, after graduating, in agricultural research (including
tropical experience) coupled with specific experience of research planning,
management and evaluation, or wide experienze of research planning,
management and evaluation in research organization, including experience in
tropical environment. Knowledge of and experience with computerized



- 63 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
research planning systems is highly desirable. Previous experience of
externally funded projects and a knowledge of Kiswahili would be useful.
3.    Finance and Accounting Specialist
Under the general supervision of the Commissioner, DRT and the
lead consultant, the Finance and Accounting Specialist would act as
financial and accounting advisor to the Commissioner and the Head of the
Finance and Administration Unit and consultants' team. He would also
liaise closely with the Procurement Specialist in all matters concerning
the procurement of inputs under the project, and the wider aspect of
procurement and budgeting for the new RD.  Specifically, his
responsibilities would include:
(a) ensuring the design and implementation of a project accounting
system; reviewing accounting and fiAancial control systems in use;
'(b) reviewing accounting and financial control systems in use by TARO,
TALIRO, UAC, and MALD; determining the requirements of MALD and of
the new RTD for adequate financial control and management
information; bearing in mind these requirements, designing
dedicated systems and procedures for RTD, determining detailed
tasks, a program of work, skills and staff needed to implement
MALD and special RTD systems; assist with implementation of the
above and a computerized accounting system in conjunction with a
computer specialist;
(c) in accordance with the needs of the change program in item (b),
drawing up TOR for, and assisting with the selection of local
contract accounting staff for the purpose of detailed procedure
design (as necessary), implementation and staff training; advising
on traiiing requirements; supervising the work of contract
accounting staff;
(d) as needed, developing and documenting financial regulations and
accounting policy for the new RTD; -
(e) ensuring the preparation of an accounting manual'detailing
individual elements of each procedure to be used, and all forms,
records and reports;
(f) assisting in the recruitment of key accounting staff;
(g) participating in the preparation and review of the annual budget
proposals, and ensuring with the Head of the Finance and
Administration Unit, its orderly consolidation and presentation to
MALD;
(h) ensuring with the Management and Planning Specialist that research
planning and evaluation procedures interface efficiently with
accounting procedures;
(i) assisting the Procurement Specialist as required with the
financial aspects of procurement; ensuring that procurement and
financial procedures interface efficiently.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
'Re should be a qualified accountant (CA, CPA, ACCA) with at least ten years
post qualification experience outside Tanzania. Extensive knowledge and
experience of computerized accounting systems is essential as is experience
of implementing manual and computerized systems in developing countries,
preferably Africa. Previous experience of externally funded projects and a
knowledge of Kiewahili would be useful.
4.    Procurement Specialist
Under the general supervision of the Commissioner, RTD and the lead
consultant, he would:
(a) ensure, through the procurement section of RTD or a specially
installed project procurement unit, that the inputs financed by
the project are obtained when planned and in accordance with IDA
guidelines or those of the relevant funding agency;
(b)  design and document (in a manual), and assist in selecting staff
to carry out procurement procedures including: internal
ordering/recording (e.g., for stock), local and foreign
purchasing, import clearance and receipt/verification, supplies
selecticn, negotiation;
(c) carry out, or arrange for, such training as is needed to bring the
staff engaged in procurement up to a satisfactory level of
competence, liaising as needed with suitable loc4l and foreign
training establishments.
He would be an experienced procurement manager of at least five years
standing, a member of the British Institute of Purchasing and Supply or the
equivalent, conversant with international procurement systems and
practices, in a major nstional or international private sector company or
procurement agency. Previous experience of an externally funded project
and of a developing country would be desirable.
5.   Computer Specialist
Under the general supervision of the Commissioner RTD, and the lead
consultant, and in collaboration with the planning and management
specialist and the finance and accounting specialist, the computer
specialist would be responsible for undertaking a study of the feasibility
of cetputerizing all or part of (1) the proposed research management system
and  ') the accounting and financial management information system.
Following approval of the proposals, the computer specialist would specify
the computer requirements, assist with tender preparation,
prequalification, evaluation of bids, selection of supplies and as
available and in conjunction with the management and planning specialist
and the financial and accounting specialist, assist with implementing the
system. He must have a thorough knowledge and experience of systems design
and evaluation in a financial and planning environment. He should
preferably be accounting oriented with substantial experience of computer
hardwars, operating systems and software evaluation and selection.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
6.    Unspecified Consulting Assistance
24 months of consultancy have been reserved for assistance not so far
specified because of incomplete knowledge of work to be done during
consolidation. For instance tho extent to which RTD would be able to set
up and run its own accounting, personnel and administrative systems is not
yet known. Within six months of the project effective date, however, the
lead consultant together with the Comissioner, RTD and the leader of the
Tanzanian task force would specify in detail the additional consulting
assistance required. This could be either additional skills such personnel
management and administration or extensions for existing specialists
described above, or a combination of the two options.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Research Master Plan
Terms of Reference
Research Master Plan Preparation
1.        There would be a detailed review and appraisal of all
agricultural and livestock research activities and resources, and based on
the Information obtained, the first Research Master Plan would be
prepared. The plan would consist of a conceptual 10 year research outline
with detailed costed recommendations for a five years proiram, to be
updated annually during the annual planning process. The objective would
be to draw up a plan based on priorities, in line with available resources,
which would bring about relevant, effective and cost effective research.
The work would be conducted by Tanzanian working g)oups supported by
technical assistance staff.
2.        The first step would be to establish the conceptual framework and
procedure for developing and annually revising the Master Plan. The
following would be steps in preparing the plan:
(a) Resource Availability. A detailed investigation into
financial resources that would be available to sustain the
agricultural research effort. This would determine all
other criteria such as size of total research effort, number
of programs that can be operated effectively, number of
stations that can be operated effectively, and staffing
levels. The Master Plan should identify clear priorities
among research programs, and can include a list of fully
described and costed programs for expanding the national
program in case additional resources become available.
(b) Research Programs
(i) Criteria and a methodology would be established in
conjunction with the Research Managemers. and Planning
Specialist (Annex 3), to determine priorities in
research to support crop and livestock production
systems. These criteria would derive from, inter
alia, output value, potential output value,
importance as a foreign exchange earner, complexity
of problems to be investigated, research previously
carried out or being done elsewhere, farmer and
agro-industry needs, agricultural, economic and
social policies of the Government and agro-ecological
factors. A computer based expert system should be
used, if possible, to further the above. One such
system is being developed by the Office of the
Science Adviser, Commonwealth Secretariat, London,
using an interactive computer program (RESEVAL) that



- 67 -                          ANNEX.
Page 2 of 6
poses questions and integrates the answers to provide
a priority rating.
(ii) ;In the light of the resource availability and
;priorities derived in (a) and (b)(i), the content of
research programs would be determined following (1) a
review of the past results and future direction of
existing programs; (2) decisions taken on the
termination or expansion of existing programs, and
the establishment of n'J programs where gaps and
omissions are perceived; and (3) allocation of
resources (funds, personnel) between and within
research programs; all undertaken during the
preparation of the Research Master Plan.
(iii)  For each program details of equipment, facilities,
research scientists, supporting staff, land
requirement, field triai requirements, etc. would be
drawn up.
(c) Research Stations. To develop a cost-effective national
network of institutes, centers and stations to undertake the
research programs based on resource availability and then
derived in (b) above, the Waster Plan would:
(M)  Review current role and responsibilities of each
research unit in the network; determine research
facilities to be retained, recommending improvements
to and rehabilitation, consolidation or closure of
existing units as appropriate, and specify
objectives, functions, organization, facilities, and
staffing for each. Attention would be given to the
organizational, management and resource needs of both
National Commodity research and location- specific
adaptive research and effective research- extension
linkages. Decentralization of research management to
zonal centers would be fully explored and, finalized
by: (1) definition of zones and their boundaries;
(2) in each zone identification of one or more lead
institutes from existing units (zonal research and
training centers); and (3) assisted by the
organization and management task force, specification
of organization, staffing, responsibilities and
authority of each lead institute and subordinate
institutes and stations. The future zonal role of
crops/soils and livestock institutes would be
considered in this exercise;
(ii)  establish the requirements for and costs of
rehabilitation, new construction, equipment and
future maintenance of retained stations, and develop
outline specifications for all work proposed.



-68-                          ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
(d) Organizational Structure
(i)  The consolidation of the research services lnd
establishment of a new structure for the Research and
Training Department Headquarters would be progressing
concurrently with the preparation of the Master
Plan. There should be close liaison between the
groups working on the Master Plan and the
organization and management task force when the
latter specifies headquarters organizational
structure and staffing for the proposed consolidated
organization over the next five years. The Master
Plan group would also advise on the desirability of
transferring TALIRO's Animal Diseases Research
Institute and the six Veterinary Investigation
Centers to the MALD Livestock Department or retaining
them in the Research and Training Department.
(ii)   TPRI, one of the four research parastatals, currently
undertakes pesticide regulation and service functions
relating to plant quarantine, which should correctly
be the responsibility of MALD. However, in view of
TPRI's residual research functions, a study under the
Master Plan preparation is required to determine
whether, and by which organization, TPRI's current
activities should be performed; in considering the
future of the tRI herbarium, those at Ukiriguru
Institute and elsewhere would be included. Detailed
restructuring recommendations would be made in
collaboration with the organization and management
group.
(e)  Nanpower Development and Training.  The Master Plan would:
-      Prepare an inventory of existing management,
professional/scientific, administrative and support
staff specifying job, grade, education,
qualifications, skills and experience of each;
-      determine requirements for the above staff during the
five years of the Master Plan from the existing and
proposed HQ and research institute/center/station
organization;
-      assess the current research education and training
capacity in Tanzania;
and from a review of the above and having in mind resource
availability wodld:
(i) develop a training plan, specifying training to be
provided in Tanzania and abroad, for appropriate
staff during the next five years;



- 69 -                        AUEX4
Page 4 of 6
(ii) develop, as necessary, a 5 year plan for the
recruitment, deployment of additional staff;
(iii)  in consultation with other Research Master Plan team
members, detail the consequential needs for external
technical assistance; this would include provision to
ensure continuity of essential research work during
the absence of Tanzanian scientists while training.
The Organization and Nanagement Team would provide input relating
to non-research management and support staff.
(f) Scheme of Service. From a review of current schemes of
service for Sokoine University of Agriculture, MALD and the
research parastatals, the Master Plan would outline, in
agreement with the Civil Service Commission, the main
features of a scheme of service (remuneration, promotion,
etc.) which would provide improved incentives for research
staff.
(g) Research/Extension and International Linkages
(i)   From an examination of the present research linkages
between (1) the research parastatals and Sokoine
University, (2) the research parastatals and the MALD
extension service, the Master Plan would suggest ways
of strengthening these linkages.
(ii)   The links with international centers and centers
undertaking similar research in neighboring countries
would be investigated during development of the
Master Plan, and means of strengthening and assuring
productive linkages developed.
(h) Research Information and Documentation Service
(i) From a review of research institute and station
library services, the Master Plan would recommend
establishment of an effective library service, phased
in accordance with available resources. This
recommendation should include all aspects of modern
library practice, including the use of computers if
judged feasible, and should take into account other
similar investigations such as that recently carried
out by BAO on documentation in TARO.
(ii) Methods for dissemination of research findings would
be investigated and recommendations made for their
improvement In the Master Plan. These would cover
the use of scientific and popular publications,
annual reports, audio, audio visual means and any
other techniques thought to be relevant for various
audiences in local conditions. The feasibility of



-70 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
establishing a Tanzanian Journal of Agricultural and
Livestock Research would also be investigated.
(i) Costing the Master Plan Recommendations. In line with the
criteria outlined in para 2(a) above, the consultants
involved in the preparation of the Master Plan would
determine: costs, phased over five years, of implementing
the recommendations emerging from the studies outlined
above. Recurrent and capital costs would be identified
separately.
(J) Sub-Prolect Preparation Manual. To help in the preparation
of sub-projects, to attract funding for implementing the
Master Plan, the consultants would draw up a sub-project
preparation manual. This should include guidelines both on
the preparation of the text and detailed estimates.
Working Groups of Tanzanian Epperts
3.        The Commissioner for Research and Training would appoint working
groups of Tanzanian experts to prepare the Master Plan. He would also
appoint a Senior research official to coordinate the groups and to act as
overall team leader. The groups would be supported by consultants as
detailed below (para 4) who are expected to participate whenever possible
in working groups tasks and help to draw up joint reports for inclusion in
the Master Plan.
Arrar ements for Prepan   the Research Master Plan
4.        The internationally recruited short-term consultants who would be
retained to assist Tanzanian staff prepare the Master Plan would work under
the supervision of a full time team coordinator reporting to the
Commissioner Research and Training.  In conjunction with the Tanzanian team
leader he would be responsible for (1) specifying a framework and
procedures for the Master Plan preparation; (2) coordinating the work of
all the consultants hired to prepare the Master Plan; and (3) compiling the
Master Plan from individual contributions. The coordinator would ensure
liaison with the Tanzanian working groups referred to above, and would
cooperate as required with the Organization and Management Task Force and
the technical advisors working under the Project. He would also finalize
terms of reference for the Master Plan preparation after review and
clearance by the Commissioner Research and Training; and would ensure that
preparation is carried out in accordance with the implementation schedule
(see Appendix 1 of this annex).
Liaison with the Organization and MjanAement Task Force
5.        There should be close liaison and collaboration between the
leaders and members of the Master Plan group and those of the Organization
and Management group in most of the above steps and particularly where
there would be joint input into a task. This would be the case in steps
2b(i), 2c(i), 2d(i) and (ii), 2(e) and 2(f).



- 71 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
Imolementation of Master Plan Recommendations.
6.        The Master Plan would clearly incorporate programs on a priority
basis for research projects, and station/laboratory improvements. The
project "Research lund" would be one source of finance for those programs.
However, because preparation of the Plan would be funded by SPAAR member
countries, the Plan, when completed, is expected to generate considerable
donor support for implementing the priority programs.
Annual Research Program Planning
7.        The Commissioner Research and Training, with the help of the
Director of Research Planning and Evaluation would be responsible for
arranging the formal annual review and updating of the five year Research
Master Plan, in which senior research management at head office and the
main research centers and stations would be involved. The revised Master
Plan would be screened by the departmental Technical Committee before it
can be approved by senior management, and would also be presented to the
National Advisory Committee for Agriculture and Livestock Research as part
of the annual planning and budgeting cycle.



Research Nester Plan: Presesed laplementation Schedule
Para.                               Mam           of
TASKIASSIONENT                                               Ref.      1988/89      1989/90     Months    Consultants
1. Define WMP TOR In detail (lesearch Management and                        _ _                    2+        TO
Planning Specialist)
2. Tansaman uorking groups                                   3
.3. ANP Team Coordinator                                      4                                    18           1
4. Resources availability enquiries                       2(a)             _                       2     as b(Ci)**
5.  (a) Research priorities and methodology               2(b)(i)          -                       2           1
(b) Content of planned research programs
Crops                                             2(b)(ii)                                18         12
Livestock                                         2(b)(I1)                                 4          4
(c) Selection from existing research stations of                                                                                                         -a
thbse,aeeded                                    2(c)(i)                                  3    as (b)Cii)e* *)
6.  (a) Station construction and rehabilitation
(requirements and specifications costing.)        2(c)(ii)                                 9          1
(b) Research machinery, equipmet (as 6(a))            2(b)(iiS)
7. TMI study (assistance to organization and              2(d)(11)                      _           1.5  as (b)(i)**
management group)
B.  (a) Training plan                                     2(e)(S)
(b) Recruitment plan                                  2(o)(1I)                                 5
(e) Techaneal assistance plan                         2(e)(111)
(d) Scheme _   service                                2(f)                                     2     as (e)ec
9.  (a) Research euteDsion l4kages                       2(g)                                     0 -.S  as (b)C-i)
(b) International linkages                            2(g)(CI)            - - - - -            0.S   as (b)(ii)**
(e) Sub-Project Preparation Mbanul                    2(j)                                     1 - - - -  l.0  as (b)(ii)**
10. (a) Research information and library service          2(h)(i)                        -         2           1
(b) Documentation service, publieations               2(h)(ii)                      _ _        I    as (h)(i)**
I1. Unallocated                                                                                    5.5
TOTAL                                                                                              75         21                                        H
Notess
1. - - denotes intermittent activity usually uandertaken an part of anotber study.
2. Project Effective Date is 10/31/88
3. R- - Research Master Plan.
4. l-psed time not task workload.
S. *TeebSical assistance under the Project.
. **ftt additional.



- 73 -
TANZANI
NAX10O1IW  AGCULT    -An LutsTmCK BARc  nwaCT
Summa  of Traini   to be 11Lndd under the first Prosoct Phaae
Number of    total     ---- N-o. of Staff---
ttftf   8taff Team   12  ITS M 4 M          4 PY17  as.
Wrofo~utia^rab ftaft
Roots i Tubers
PhbD                           2           6        1    1    1    1    1    1    -
MSc                            5          10        1    2    2    2    2    2   -
IS'
PbD                            2           6        1    1    1    1    1    1   -
145                             6         12        2    2    2    2    2    2    -
Cotton
PhD                            4          12        2    2    2    2    2    2    -
NI                             3                    1    1  1     1    1    1    -
tamim  8taf 
(ar  "Ressfroc i u1Agenst" at
USDA j/ Whington: for
seniort  "anae                 4       6 vs 4    2    2
(b) "te"arob Management"
iAcludinS principles,
practice of sanageet)
in  str oa  Saam, developed
by eUsMI   for .11 research
maageo  nd senior
reearchers                    so     4 wu s  80   20   20   20   20
(a)  "linancial Managemt" tn
Dar " Saloo, developed by
SSAMI for sealer manaoes
Plu" chief accountants, hlef
internl stditors               30     4 wk s 30   10  10   10
ountins St f
(au) ¢ll CPAP  r   Advand
Diploms li Certifie
Accounting (IA)   i , 
Dar es Salast for 2
countats                       2           4        1   2    1
(b)  A    cAat I    Dar a  Salast for:
4 ccountante                   4          12        2    4    4    2
!BP.flMl..A4AA!Olaf f
*  Ia) YulGOA from C      at UtK
Du t    eslaS                  2           2        1    1
tb) AcA at UK Dar oe  Slasa
for 2 accountants/interl
audltors                        2          4        1    2    2    1
p*ocurecont an  SOuDqesl/tore  Staff
(a)  Materials ma_agent/procurement
at 1SA41 Atuabas for  ppropriate
sembers of cagior management   4       4 wks a4    2    2
Us "Mato 8 ufft
(a) Nunan leaourcos Mnagement and
Developmet at  sA1 Arumbas for
Appropriate snior managers   12        6 mks a 12   3    3    3    3
Professional and Techalcal  esoerhe StaWf U
Sbott-tors Trainiag
6 Months Oourss-Returnal      20       0.5     20   5    5    5    b
SeMinarh ternal               40       1 mk  a 40  10   10   10  10
Training Courses
(average 6 mnths) at
nternaFtiol Cnts gt   s       40      0.5   x 40  10   10   10  10
fUited States Department of Agriculture
J    tastern ad Southern African Management Institute (guest lecturers fro abro   may
be Invited to teach, If meceary).
Certified Public Accountant
Institute for linaial unmagen"t
Cou "s not yet identified.
J    Anticipated p hat costs largely Met by the Cantern.



UnTIlEL iAG= m  M  LMSU  9E1A01 FOICT
P,oJct CaWuimts Dv Yet
Totals Iclcudir CmrAintff                                               Totals Ibiudi  Cmoiuin
(TSI '000)                                                              (ISS 'mlO
95 /"   991    91/92    92m        n4       4       959m6    Totai      9      99/    9/    9       929       4 am      95/6 TOt
A. RESEAO PRUAM
ROOTS AID TUKIRS  OM                       - 69546.  70448.7 62o419.7 2869.3 31780.2 2945.! 16672.2  310t31.7              -  570.5  497.5  401.4  174    .0   16   94.1 2,76
COMM P  10                          21t060.0 108.015.0 101,562.4 1041.8 76.3733 40296.7 287M.7 21,063.4   0,94.2   209.1  96.1  77.2  673.9  462.0  229.5  1.1 106.2 3.43.2
FARIJIDI SYSTIS  _963                  354.6 63,90.5 80,765.6 N,684.9 63540.2 63,340.1 64,007 33,541.4  464229.0         3.5  524.3  570*4  606.9  34.4  360.7  33 169.1 2,964.5
~~~~~~~~_ ___ _ _____                                                                                       -  _-         - ____   
&6-Tot1 RIESEMC  MGM                   21,414.5 241M 8.1 252,776.7 261.696.4 169582.6 135*417.0 121,918.5 732m77.0 1,276750.   212.7 1,980.9 17951 1t484.2 1019.9  M.2  653.0 J69.3 8476.3 
F. NomIlaZAO * A9  EJ                 141P683.7 34o,482.7 232,511.9 119429.S 125,913.2 51,64.6 39,115.8 29,619,9 1,06962161 1,407.0 2,7.0 19642.0  766.0  76U.7  29.4 2J9.5 14.3   099 
C. ULLCATED ESEA   FUD                       -        - 62434.4 1I3.529.5 2954665.2 211,403.7 121,3651  59.42.6  9W*739.8    -       -  58.5 1,180.3 17.7 1203.9  650.1 299.5 5,703.9
D. VEIICLES. EIIPIINI M8 rATERIALS FUID   759525.0 91,425.0 106,200.0 1166U5.0  -        -        -        -  389977560  75.0  750.0  75.   750.0         -      -      -    - 3.0
lotal PMJECT CS                         238,623.2 6S2,375.7 673,634.9 6618.3 5161.2 398,6M5J3 262.399.3 162t326.7 3.706Sh0 2.J69.6 5597.8 5 473.74.362.5 3,5.2 22V0.4 1512.6 618.2 25.260.1
Hatch 19, 1918 08:36
I-I



75 -ANNEX 6
Table 2
!IOMK  AURICULTE MM LIVESTOCK EAR PROCT
Sa.taw  Acat bi Project Coat
(TYN '000)
RE8EbuJl PROIS
-^----.. -------. --.. --- . .... .                         YCLESt                    Phvsicil
ROOTS ANI          fM11iNG                                LINJIHUT END              CONlnanclt
TUBERS   COTTON   SYSTS   OSAIZATISI  UMLLOCATD    MATIERIALS
nRCGA   PW1    PROMI   ANl IW                AH   FUIND      FIND        Total      I   AwAt
i. usmer cost
Is INOW    COSTS
A# CIVIL VOWKS                              357225 649820.1  31,825.5         97.425,0             -             -   229M l 15.0 34,469.0
8I tICLES                                   259000.4 11.835,5 21,544.4        33t837*2             -             -    92217*5  0.0       0.0
C. EUIPET                                  17,16.*  32,79*5  1,913.6          7,714.9             -59644    0.0                         0.0
D. MTcMNICALAssISTAIICE                            - 65,7.   52.069,5        332,057.3             -             -   44949.   0O.        0.0
E. VRAININS
P mJE iSMAS1tllB                         36,540.0 41107,5  57,093.8               -             -             -   134,41,3  0.0       0.0
LOAL TININ                                      -        - 12M075.0        75.5658              -             -    87.63,0  0.0       0.0
bTotul TAINING                              36,50,0 41107.S 69.168s8         75,543.8             -             -   222,315.1  00       0.0
F. KEWH fUS                                        -        ^        -               -     433,531,2             -   433t531.2  0.0      0.0
6. VHIECLES t    EOIWiPiT AID MTERIALS FUIS                 -        -              -             -      270,00*0   270,000*0  0*0       0.0
H. m FINS                                          - F                        45,000.0                                45 -  4,00.o0 0o0  0.0
I. Om   iPJEf     COSTS                           -         -        -         640,0              -              -     6,440,0  0.0      0.0
_~ ~ ~~~,4. _     _       _     _.        _     _       _     _,       __*       _
Tout IEIT  COSTS                              114,49.7 216,334.6 176 501.)      599,043,1     433.531.      2tOt000,0  1,100,910.3  1.9 34469,0
11. FilMC  t Costs
. EE   MS EMWI           ou                28,327.2  50413,6 33,920.7        54t,73.S             -                  167,365.0  0.0     0.0
Be ANINSTIE COSTS                                 -        -  4484                  -             -             -     4,47   0.0        0*0
tC 0118 INCiAL 091T11  COS1T               17,294*8        - 12653.4                -             -             -    29946.2  0.0       0.0
TotW  CMC OSS                                  45,22.0 50,413.6 51,050.0         54,703,5            -             -   201,779   0.0        0.0
otl lAu6Ltn  COwS                              160hOSl7 26674863 227,400.5       652746.6      433#531,2     270t0000 20100.Me3  1.7 34,469#0
Ph.ial Cortibcis                              5t584  9M723,0   4M758           14MU3M8              -             -    34,469.0  0.0      0.0
Ptile CwA iZmt sc                           1451416 225468.9 231M546          422,260.8     520,208.6     119,7.0  1,664,709*6   16 27t87.3
Ttol  ECT COS                                  310561, 5,940.?2 464229,0    1,009,621.1        953,739.8     38,M.0  3.709.16660   1.7 61,662
FOtts EmebJ                                 226t161.1 3939M*5 3471661.0       801S4HAMA     8006,59.2     189t775.0 2t964645.6  1.0 23t9679
Muvd6 19. 1998 00136



-76 -                                                ANNEX 6
Table 3
TMZAWMIA
ATIONL AORICULNRE AND LIVUESTOCK  AC F CT
SuaY kumts bu Year
(Tim '000
Me Costs                                        Folion Eade
0089      9/90    4049t    91/?:     2/3    93/94    94U95    95/       Totl        S      MA
IM iNVESTMENT COSTS
h. CUJIL MS                                      - 50011.5 IN19241 42.8W7,0 23.32.0  7.144,5  5,196,0           -  229t,71  46.   107,732.1
8. mEICS                                           45,584.4 13H5823  12,970,6     80.2        -        -        -   9217,5  96.9   8937M.
C. EOUImiPT                                        533506.2  1,26.0    360M9  4,511.6                  -        -   59644.8  96M3   57,48.2
D. TECHNIA ;.3SISTAMCE                    92P17. 168.38.5 81733 59149.1 283318.5 146159,3  54937,8              -  449t.88  14*0 4. 499.8018
E. tN
ORSEAS TRAINING                          4.567,5 20.553.8 22,837.5 221837.5  22837.5 22,837.5 15.98643  2,283.8  134,741.3 100.0  134,741.3
LOCAL TRAININS                                - 19,467.2 1U472  18 *907 18.9407  3.622,5  3622,5  3 565.0   87643.8   0.0               0.0
&lot. TRAINS                               4567*5 Ot402.O 423047 41,787.2 41.782 26,4060  19.640,8  5,848.8  222,8.1  60.6  134,741.3
F. IIKSFUN                                       -        - 47,784,0 M3O8NA 13MA0W6.0 880617.6 4604i6.4 200416#9  433.312  84.1  364,9.2
Be WOCLES . 32UIPNENt AND NATERIALS FUQN  67.50040 67.500,0 675400*0 675000          -        -        -        -  270,000*0 100.0  270hO,00.
o PmF FU                                  4.0000o0                      -            -        -        -        -   45,000,0  100.0   45OO.O
-. uO   INmlTENT COSTS            ,          690.0                              5,780.0       -                 -    6440*0   0.0         0.0
Total IlMSti£NT COSTS                       2099449  45,011.5 355,387.4 319.U45.2 240,645.5 136.31,4 76,788.9 26265.6 180009103  84.0 1,51,85h68
II. .CIIIT COSTS
At VENICL£ ANID EOaWT ON DIN                    *   .599.9 21911,9 25,154,6 25,174.6 25,174,6 25tl746 25,174,6  167,365.0  70.9  1180?26,2
to iWINISTRATItE CASTS                      289.0    599.4     9.4    599.4    599.4    599.4    599.4    599.4    4484.7  24.9    1,115.2
C. OTER IN    NTiAL .FERATAN COSTS              -  3,275,2  3W899.8  6.3441  4064.1  4,121.7  4,121.7  4121.7   2998.2  24,9    7447.3
Total ECIMIENT   :                              289.0 23.474,5 26,411.1 32090.1 29,838.1  29,895,7 2,895,7 29.895.7  201M797.9  63*   127. 2.8v
oASl ME     COSTS                            210,233.9 404860 381.790.5 350.563.3 270,503*6 166,277,0 106*6846 56.161,2 2.010.708.3  81.991,6t145.6
Musical Cntirgmncin                               -    7501.7 15,178.8  6,40.1  3,507.3  1,071*7    779.4        -   3,469.0  46.9   16,159.8
Ptice ConAingis                            28.3893 206.302.0 26,857.6 324.P 0 316h150.2 231M336,6 17R9M5A4 106I465.5 I664,709.6  78.2 1,3049!'.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                          238.623,2 682.375,7 673,834.9  1480590161.2398.6853282.3993M141400.3 590261326.7 3 709,8!.3  79.9 2.962t645,6
.ion     auuuWuaaauma   auui                          gau*ua.nanx  $81aa:1aa1..athUnUU i2         U
Forai*g Ev.n+p                            237W487.9 558,40.0, 503631,5 541.901,1 439,158.2 322,451.4 21;i787.9 112,804.9 2,964,645.6   O.O  0.0
Ibt0 19. 1989 09136



TTIL AE6RICLTUIE #A LMSIT   ESEMOi F9IIET
Su9r  Accourwts bv Tat
Total, Including CotindCius                                               Totals Ittluail Cantiu*uicju
(TS" 'OOoi                                                                ($ '000)
69/69    69/90    90/m1    91/92    92/93    93Y     94/9    9596    Total         E/C9 690  9l           92  9/    93m        9          TOt
1. IlW NESTl£  r=                                          =         .msTa
A. CIVIL  S                                     - 84.536.3 200t3963 95481.4 57426.1  19,341.7 15U.0            -  472697.9        -  693.S 1,415.2  614.0  347.4  U0.1   55i.      - 3,263.4
S. MJENS                                        - 9432.3 23412.7 2.46.3           71.6       -        -        -  143.433*1       -  774.3  165.3    t.7    1.0       -      -    -  M11.4
C. EtIP                                         * 77,03.2  2,182.3    706.2  9t705.0         -        -        -   694698.7       -  631.9   15.4    4.6   59.2       -       -    -   711o
P. TECKIWCAL ASISTIM                     106,2e.1 :42,015.4 140,937.7 116.176.2 61,491.5 33,960  157509        -  716,04.7 105.3 1915.4  995.3  7471.  372.0  193.4   844    - 549
E. T12NIN1
09eRMS 1261                             54245.0 29.540.8 39,360.1  444M.7 49599.9 54.t?,1 42,406.2  6495.2  2.S07.9    52.3  242.3  273.0  25  30.0  312,0  2?.1 3L7  173.0
LOCAL 01R*'rI1                               -  9,'1?75.7 33493.4 36.246.9 39.971.6  9,364.2  9.226  9,9559  16379.2           -  239.3  236.5  233.1  2412   47.7  49.4 5.3 1,097.6
Sub-Tot  TRAININB                          St265.0 st16.5  72,3.5 61102A6  69461,5 63m171.3 51,69.8 16.9.0  438496.1    52.3  481.7  5146  521.6  541,2  359.7  276S .            .1 251.6
F. RESWlC  FUID                                 -        -  M2U3M  16S394,5 295F665.2 211,403.7 121,365.1 5942    9339.6          -      -  31.5 116v03 1.73.7 1.203.?  650.1 29.S S,0.9
6. fJICIES * EOIt N 4IIPAIERIALS FMlID   75.525.0 91425,0 106t200.0 116t=25.0       -        -        -        -  389975.0   750,0  750.0  750*0  750.O        -      -       -    - 3,00.0
v. m1' FM                                 50.350.0       -        -        -        -        -        -        -   50,350.0 100.0         -      -      -      -      -       -    -   500.0 _,
1. 91R IS T COSTS                            63,6        -        _           12_096.4                         -   12962.0      6.6      -       -      -   73.2      -                   8 1.9
-~~~~~~~~~~O4 32t8*                                                        -        -      -    TM  2 3vM*7.................... 1#0* IPM    3OL  2  --   --   --
Total IUSTi CNSl1.                          2368,,2616 646110.6 6283,9 619,.073  6,0.4 37,2t4.7 24256s  76,1069 366W147.3 2366.1 5316.7 4,437.4 3A 9.2 3.7 1s6t2 1,0   3.6 274.1
~~~   .ra   m=s= .a=m  m               m m                        ram    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tx*= ms=x123mm  ===  EBMBMSm m
It. RECENT COSTS
A.      E AS E M    OM                            MUM 2651.5 3'.751,4 49.030,9 54I171.3 59.774,5 659M.9 72,64.5  3     5.9       -  233.9  266.   315.3  32       3404    SL. 3We1  2,204.6
D. AIMNINLTPIVE COSTS                       J54.6    6.2  1.0316  1154.2  lvVI.2  19399.9  1P541.9  1698.2    9340*.           L5    7.3    74 -3  7.4    7.7    L.O    8,J  6.6    3.0
C. OTIIER IIICkIllAL IW TIS COSTS              -    ,858.S  6.'12.0 12216.0  8t619,3  9.626.1 10,602.9 1J.6t.2   64312.6         -   39.t  47.4   736   52.1   54.8   56.6 30.9   319.4
Total 11E0W31I COSTS                           354.6 34265.1  45,496.0  62401,1 64.061.7 70,800,6 73.142.6 966217.9  441,39.5      3.5  2.1  321.3  401.3  37.5  403.2  416.5 434.6 2,65.1
rrv ==*= C                              -__" swm==w _m==  _onz  _om 8==X=  _~Z  _z=m  _um  _
Totl rnsrC  EC-iS                           239,623.2 662,375.7 6t3.63    661A40,3 59I0612 35605,3  239J.3 162,326.7 3709.89.6 2.369.6 S597t8 4,5.7 4#38.3 39570.2 2270.4 1412.a6 68.2 25#20.1
ttrSSs=*0 sWX :sn. *Smt_ rcl rs   ..:r..r i_  r _m                          _         _ g            _um    _      _n      _      _     _
Huatch 19. 198 08:36



TAIO 02. mOm   mUDSOrnM
811.136 CaM  Table
tTo IM)~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~4$ M
bastits                                                    eCats is 0                                   o
unit    am19 09990 90/9  91/9  92mY 93/94   9415/  TotI  thAt Cost  MN   ne   M 9  399096919m92215/9   94159/9  T..    fat. W6 how) TOMs  TOWl
I. l31STN    Ca
e.lc a mm
mm E- am   A                         ONE        -          2    2    -    -    -    -    4   3,24743         -    - 72.2 72.2    -    -    -    -  141.3            3.9  97.0         -  IO.9
mmut-Wma                             BE         -                2    -    -    -    -    51u948.5           -    - Am043.          -    -    -    -166e.3          14.9  72.?        -137.
mIKLflTIU OFSK  - 34K                ONEi       -          3    2    -    -    -    -    5  1,6273.          -    - 54.1 36.1      -           -    -   90.2        54.1  06"         -  114.6
R9UILTATIUOF WMSUKI                  I - WM- N             3    2    -    -    -    -    5         MS.2      -    - 22.5 21.7      -     -     -    -   54.1        3743  36.3        -   49.
Sot-rOta CILa VMS                                                                                               -    - 223.7 173.2    -    -    -    -  396.9         23.3 266.          -  91.9
D. 23019111
GENERATORNS(21)                                                               -                                100.3- -       -IOJ - -              -  30.3        10243   4.2       -  INA.
FMNIIUIBEOTS                                                -    -    -     -                                - 61.0      -    -     -        --     -   61.0        42.2   2.6        -   64.8
EBWEUKPI-IP-1                                                              - -          - -                  -  S.2         ……5S.2                                   543   042        -    5.5
LAMTORY :7NNT                                   -     -    -     -    -     -     -    -     --1.    --                          -13-.8- I                          14.1   0.6        :    4.
OFFICE ENaPNM  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    - 10.9    -            -     -     -     -     -   10.9  U~~~~~1.1   0.5      11.5
Sub-lotal EOIIIIWIT                                                                                             -191.1…-                    -              -191.1     195.0   6.1        -  203.1
C. tINO.E
dil 11110E                          21         -          2   -        -  ---2 2425.813   - 3.1 -5-0.1-                                                            5142  2.1    -  53.    -
aSICI                               31  M           2  2  -----    41.503.87    -33.43n.4 -                                                            4::  6.8   69.3 2.8    - 72.1 
7 TINLORRY                          WEl               I  --             - ---1 3P.07.7   - 3.4 -                                   --                      .S4    24.1 1.4    - 15.5
IUwt(NL                              ONE    :12      -                      ----20 13.309   -ILO012.0 -   -30.1   31.1 1.3    - 37.4
BICYCLv  22 -                                                                ----54  #.0n    -2.1 2.7…---5.4                                                         5.60W            -  5.8
TLACTUS W1 ~TAiLFTS                  OK              2  --              -  ---2 4t13.65    - 91.9 -                                 --91.9   g3.  3.9    - 97.7
Sub-Totsl 11310.1                                                                                               - 2294 -4.2 -2--V7.6                                  91.1  1-1.7        -  296.
S.TRAIKIWS
"SC KimEPR6wM                     STAFIW              1    2    2    2    2    1            10 It    WOWS    - 2164 50.8    . 30.9 30.8 6   25.4    -  23.8        2951               -  2954
he oiMi                           SIWFIEAR      -     I    II    I          I    I    -    6  2,203.72       - VA425.4  5A425A425.4 25.4            -   W15.       177.2      -       -  177.2
:;ab-T*U4 TRAINISNG                                                                                             - 30.9  74.1 76.1 76.1  76.1 30.8          406.0      472.3              -  472.3
Total 3.EsTw1IT COS5                                                                                                 471.5 -348.0, 249.3 7-6.1 -761 530.0,  1t-  .6.  -1.190.  91.4-        - 1,42.1
-   ---  -------                                                                                                   -            -        -        -      -  
A. VENU. F An ESAI IENT 1
11a1-                                                -              - -              - -                    - V.3 39.3   V.3 39.3 399.3 .3   V.3  275.2           247.0, 78.2        -912
113105          -    -                      -    -    -                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4.2  4.24.2  4.2  4.24.2  4.229.  26.68.4         -15.0 
£W..~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  05                                                          - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.4  1.A  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4    9.9  6.9   2.6     - 1I.? 
kub-TodWOOL AND051  U IEN"    5                                                                                   4 6.0  4.,2 6.0  45.0 43.0 45.0 6.#0  314.7         0A.  69.5             V71.9
V. RESEM   COM        -           -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -         17~~~~~~-I.5 2T9  36.6 2.6 27.2 27.2 27.2  192.     16.9 167.7        -  24.6         qj
TOW.  vOUN  0351                                                                                                   -    a4.2.981i.671.5 72.2   m2.27.2  106.             33.3 S7.2             P&$6.
----   ---      ---           - ----    --             Mn f-     -      -       -
Total                                                                                                               - 35.9 420.9 230.9 147.7 14.3 122.9 72.2 1,7797      irog.0  543.6      -2a07".



MMna  lMMt LANAi @633 INA S
'J_M  1 1          USO D  US11  31 U I    D921 Wm  31113 UW 11111 U
onj  "M "~~ ~~~~~at 11     t' ti fl  '   wMW    t                                               am111M  o
m_ __ _m. *           -    __n. m__~.                                   ..
a         O : t1 00   VW  II Pst I' t9t 1rW tM  :tu. gg                                                                  l1     w
__ __                     - - - - - -.                                                                            m
St.9 *    01ut SM   r'0  PU 119 P13 1e  rEIP   S £C Pt                                                              IS        1
W             I's 3t   Pt   Pt. .1 Pt P. I . l . It 4Ma-                                                     5 .  .10 tI
3f1           Ott    P*  ilt lt It L  Lt      -  *                                          -                        l* -$--
M         ra  -      AMt Al it 61,6  Ol VO #10                                                                     a - *****     *,= 
ra        3:141s n     9 re  L33  rL Pt-  -                    -h98  $- -- 
-S   VP          to  - 9- ' -   -  SI-   ---
nc  -    P5101        4*£n rr  t  rt rt t  r  r  P  -       . .  .  .  .  .  .  .                                          ,,. t -*
~ P331                P3PPIPIS              1P n  ra  r rt VI  r r1  .  .  .-               * .  .  ..
nt  -    *   rs      rg  9P  "      " r  r  Po ro re           .  .f  .  .  .  .  .  .  .                            F  st
m0 Uma Uhim I
5 -     P1  PSI    P3  511r1 - rL -r9-9 L'P9       t                                                                   t--4wvua
r -    ratS rt        eM 3 I'm reoP0S ro    re ro0    ro   -    .  .  .  .  .               - .Wl
VISM   -'  rn *t rm tn  VW rt  PMz"  rip re -                   -                         -                       -v
#M  *    "t  3? *           re ra   Vo Va O0 ra  er       - T   I  I  I          -  - I     -    NM        MM   M
OW  -           rm re at Vs tPt rt Pt retP rt t' rt        R  -  of -  ofaa-         -             M       1MU -  MM  _t-
LW-~ ~~~~ ~ ~ ~      ~ P33  P5 3f3tPI Z ?1
lo   -    3   nu3    4rt    rM re r*  re 5      te -           -9 -9 -1   -  -  -    I      -   a              M.       sm S
0'951 *    533. M      jp  p   4'u.   EI   £                          I  t  t  I  I  ?           MM           of -  110   11*111- 1
P12 -    -   5113    Pgo5--5-1 PEWU '3WI'M I'M-   SE      50   ?  10   14  4                  r         WURINFvm    "Pk."
31  -    -   rS    rtsMt -  -  -St nt re rSW Mn -9                               . .. 9  I  9  9    -M                    101-
ximuwINO 
3W  -    -   Vt#   -'I        -  -  -P-t  -1t            WMI rr   --          -- -                                    _n tM-am
PP3- -                                -- P. n Pa -  P  -  VI5  * 3'5ff  I  .  .  .  .  .  3  3                         su"l
513 -    -   519    51  -  r-  -e  ro £Wt'Wnc -   PS'S   t  -  Z      -  ?              t  -   II!    '/I        I-_lUUWLSE
34@@ -          9 rln.v                        3s  Pit n1r                          -  Yt W-0-
tPtt -    -   PStt    Pt                     * -   S "    -  *-- -  3         *    * *    * -      _                     J_M
5 -    *             VIA  -  -  -  -9                                9-          -tt       -       _ PAUtItl               Mll
4      2 V-    -    PtZ                      * .  .    -   -t'Z M  -    3It It                    on
_ _ _~~~~r _       *   ._      _      _       _ .                                                .M            
$St     "M  PU   *"           t'  -16  -  --  ta  * -  -                         -10 MM - t - "-
M         VW Vo       rw      rl   - -n  -   - -       P t- ntw   c  -    -  - A-    t t  -        M                 f xfi
P63 ~ ~ 5'?  -1          -    -  4149LL   W                                                                       394
0w  *    V     M          i3 91..    6 '4' -  -         vas   s      -- t      105t5-                                A  -121021
PM        *   039      z V    --  - K WM at Wu    4 6 e      M "to  -     - af t  t         t                t Ot Wu      1111 wt
r1  -    -   5191   3139 -  -        " -  r  rWSre -   PWr   9  -  -  -  -               9  *      D01
t'lg  -    -   p1    rt9n  -.5 -            rtari         t    *q-                   *  a         3D                  IUSU
*'  - m  *W t  -  'U pg pg r  *  -                                       t'1131114-6o
3 .    519.3    3t1t r           e PUgu1stg    -   P*4e  tS trerz *  1 M3 e   3 t           *  *U                       smu*
313-      ra P01113   Wt -  t?t tUt tIt tZt t'   * - Sr ig   * -   t   t   t   t           -       U        
am3 11 1
9m-      --- --     -                               ---    -                - m              -
gaol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ so  UU
n~~~~~ ~                             m    wt    smu un
nwlur
9 eXq9L
9 uNIV                                 ~~~~~~~- 6 L -



omIW43 UInt?APiminzWma m mhONmmN  0 W
wnSiIe noe C2IdWI A6 am UIa 3136  solMuUW           IV
m m  ma mum   ---                 ma m-      ma Sm, 
*   rt ruts  s          ut rat Soat sm nI "a Vist
mum       - -  - mm     - ma ma ma ma   a m -
gt           " *   sitim    t'  VIS6WSt &I,  S K4 l4 t  *                                        Sa m    t611
- t   * ;.-f *t                              .         .     ..  .           .                  -   t0=00
lSa  -       gut r*    re  r     re     re  t   M          .     .   .    .    .    .     .     .  -  r wr
, *   3  Ls  4      t  MU   4t 6  5t W -           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          Illt         _
Wt ms.    
Wm   No v
sml *         u    r tW  -  tst sm sw a'mMrat I" t rut                                   _= P ?Mimi -
LIs -      .  lIs    s   -  ntww*gp   * - ~*  5                              -  -      WS   It
I.m      *  ru    i       -  - -P   wrrW W-7    wn    -  t             t  t  .        mow .    t   aummU
I'm-    *  PUS   5~.  sw tie tie titm r' ti. -_P iMMI
M-                 r   -  M f       rluM  *M 'm Vsutt .t  _t
SW-    n w           M        M -   Vs ta Vs  s   tge *   - ru   t  t  t      t .wMIWat _Ii'
MK           m  Sg    rw   M Vst   *a ra rt M tSt t4q 9  -  t  I  I  9  t  9  I        tI          MO O
5*1-    Si SIi   rte-            -        tN.uEII* *   - -  riOWi_____
*E       nS -                       -1   h    t'14  * -*-  -  -   -   -  -u -    *_ _
It -    5 nott      rUt      .          '35W-                            -                           PI  .  W .  - t  - "   _
*-i  -    its       5t -  - -    -  -  -         7' Wt   *                - .- *.             a on   SUN M
sit-    n   t    Pltt           -  *              mm .*  -                                            - R SJt
-   re'                  -.. -  --      -C *P    uWt*r   .  .  .  .  .          - .                 m
53t *   ?1 tSW   Pr  *                    PR    33--      t1 1t s?   *        I *  -S             IUUIP
rtt      n  en    VPt -                     rog -   Stq    .  .  .       . .          11           _w
S#t *   onP        Mw       t*S W -                                      -. t                          PI 'IM
sW  -   s -   t -   e               - M      It.                                 -              UUU
I's955 re        t.  .  -    .    .      *   W*3m    .  .  .  .  .    . I                UEU3UU
r* A   r   'leWD   tM            VW .  'tL "rt8r  -   e Slt-i-3l 
Pit-    n  vS   ru7-  -  -  LUiUa'U-                   v W    4--    - g        -.          _      m_
low-    UPre  M    UPt- - -* -  tUt  Z                 t * LIs  -     *               nut    -    1  _U1
rat-      'iS       6            *   t St-  -  40         1     - t n    1     -          tt-    - Jt_
r.  -    re          m- r        s 1w u ...   -  21 Ca      -    -  g  g t  t  t  -r               m _ t
u  --   c55Vs    Vt .  .  .         t iPg VI -   sw   s      -      t  t  t  -.  -  *S
t"       SI re     M  .  .  .  ex        * tit t-  *                tt    t I    -    US
tSt re  MN  &W  . -   . #W M rt.                 VW                 t  t                 t  n   
*t- rt tSt   rot .  .  .  .  tSrt            ranl *                                  111"1
is.
SutAm It
a Noit " tl .a # upi PR    usw wUM 6 tue s     ltt1 st t'W wewse its U wfft sU tsels  4%e ,*
I I9M *PsI
*61. ti_
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ -   1
w ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~         m 'ta 1*° Po_t
4191 )tUO 51l*
am    =n m  TwVsw"
L *TquL                                          - 08 -
9 XlNNV



I  ME      11  IS      II_T mg S
taled bWtd b
A      dt Toals bcl*. CrA
cIs  DAIW
_______________ _____                                                                                            Cx. bAl_,,_ es 1_
VMS t    UIW   OMU VW  . IV"3 7P1  4V4  94A4 WA11  Toa bit b     NO  MM14  WU  91  $2  Uri MM7! 34 MW      fOe. Exda. Tmis) Tom   Ttal
cam
~~~~~~~ aRl.e mu. - mu*
muttmu      aibm                                       _O -    -. -    -    -    -    - -1v                                        -l.5            .0  727.1     -W.2
M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*- tl CR                                                      - -5 37-144    6-. ^7OUt427.  -1.34
4MnM                                                                                              M,         am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.   54  -3.
411                               II    _      _     *  2-    -         -   - 2  2  133                     -                                    WA---  _342        U
MMn                                         -   2   -   -   -   _           _ 223 i                         -   -   -   -    -   -   W1A.    44                  -   3         _
WI"~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ on=                                                  MY         Oa    -   -                                           ----DhO  t*  1s*t
Um                                 2. -              - - - - - -                                - .         _. . .           .. A  - s          1.   4 am       -  23.
_3113                           Urn       -2 .         .4 .;.                                   s,1                             -3..  Di4   2.2               -ua
|_  *  *                                                                                        -T  *  n  - 27.7  - -664   -   -   -   - 376.0  1.0          -  4.
musuuin                   m~~~~~~~o  -                                                                                                    U1565 -03-.  .    0.8  -3
.       UMM      i                                     T                                                -     -   -   I.3    -   -   -    I         5t0   27       -  374
_   111ff _                               2    *   4 *a341    24                                         1                      - X4464    -.- 31F.2
_P 2~~ur  t21    s- --                                                    3.9   - -4.4.--IU4S2   ^_*-  -                               u.6 .    - -D
mi-             omm a         I                         J   - -   -       -  U1 14.S                          0 . Mt  1  -   -   -   -    4   20    7         -  97.7
__lul    ovum                   M             A        1   1_  0     2        5           Not *l6.   *2 14L3   7 -   -   -  2721.            11_ .    -      - 321.
ililooo P515            SIE          2   I   I   4   4   2   -   -  341.411    5.4  76.1  764l 3.53.832               -   - 3M4A         33142    -      -34
_mm    ltE                    llT#_1       2  6   6    -  -   -   -   -  IS 1.141U    36.   6.1  76   _4           *  -    -  - 220.4         246.7    -      - 366.
simm                  UWIIU~~~~~s      2   6                           S 314381   3.4  76.1        .-.  .s.s.   .                              -S        Mot.
9*,*, _        OOL                                                                          215.  64.0  37  233.8  .U         -   - d.        2#212            - -  2.
eV



2. OM. £
"An#T      WuTwUs -                                                                                         05           xi                  1S.                       1.                      3.5
PfdLWJI                             IIEEID       --1t  *  -  -1t                            24.*sa5    ?   -  5eD   -                       -__   4-101                170. -2. _  -'.3.
sMw|-ToIai    1581. 85558111                                                                                3N5   l.s1    3         -    -    - ses    -    L30.,         2S0       -       -  256.0
sD-Total tEAUICU. jwpn                                                                                         246.1  7V7*1   MS. 291.8 3412.9  e0.3   -2W.32 7           2W 2         -       - 2.48.2
-. I"   U     =                                                        .    .     ..b  *              .                          -        -     -     -     -    - -                              ..244  1.24.4
_-       F. TEDEi.
Vol 2      V.1   21   215s 21.5 t7.9 179 U.S9  15.               17t.4      - ,o
I    -  1734
. . -           -  -                  -2- Sz .62A 44 4.5 3.2 32 2.6 23.0                           - 26.7    - 2.7
abEwmIf1    2mT                                                     ,                                                2.1    2.1  2.1  2.1    -    -    -    8.4              -    9.4       -    .4
Mm Mum   mAi                                                            -                                       -     .     9     9-4  9.4    -    -    -      7                  4.0       -   42.0
_ -fm    te f                       te    UtO -                           -    -   40       725           19.2  19.2 1.294 12             -        76.7            -    5         -   8543
NW-=  =m         -ED=m /4 M-                                   5    5    5    -    -    -   2        1 t449     -    e.5   s0 s .5 80.5    -            -     -  22o         - 58           -
urns irnI mzmu-uhEUaI.                 F            -   10   10   U    t       -    -    -   40        so5     -   334    134  W3  334    -    -    -  153                   -  t70t        -  170.7
Si*-TW   ~                                                                                       -  197.1  197.1 1914t114  21.1 21.1 22.4 0    39.?           -  941.7       -  t94.7
d             T                                              .                                                                  -         -     -     -     -     -  .       0.0       -                          I 
-    -    -   -    -    -    -    -   ^  -  -    -  a3.9    -    -    -   6a.9  -   73.2  -   72
OKmau A                                                                                                   7.7       ----                              -     .                  9.6       -    8.
b          -    -    -                -               -              tJ    -~~~~~7,7 -    -    -3.    -    -    -   71.4            -   31.8       -   31.6
M4ttat emm mu--                                                                                                                         -   -d   - - -                     -1   -    -a    - tl
Tebal          83El1 125                                                                                        1.1 9.7t2,534.1 1.N4.2 517.5 SD.2 148.  71.8 23.4 h6444.s   5i.40. 1,770.2       - t ma4
a._z X W                                              - -                                - -l.    6  - -_8.9   9  4.0 94.0 94.0 94.0 94.0  607s                            sD9.2  22.9   _       722.1
Total      NT -33                                                                                                       6U.9    .9 94.0 94.0 f4.0 94A0 94.0  607.             509.2  212.9       -  7z2.1
Totl                                                                                                          ,1.7 2,63. 1.22 U1.5 6212 24.0 1454s 114.4 7.252u ?         6116  1.3.           - 19.9
M vxwffm  Ail  M""
I*qda Anum                 Mm                                                                                        m
T"n RtfEumil                                                   E          t CM                                                                                                                                  ;
na  II, t I      31        U         S r   N.
do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ an                                                                                                                       °
i . MUS IIT*3LI82131 MUD.
I*  T  155838.S   FM            FMn 8151 W    1131173
* A  M       MTMl       CMWA1 FM5 K153M=   MM RA183 MEDID MASSw
it -CM   KaM AU IN  ~~~~~~~~~~~ L~
/t amTtm FM M IML MO"  ME CM= %w a own WSWR



-83 -                            ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Disbursement Profile
Cumulative Z Disbursed
Disbursements          Cumulative      Technical Assistance
Semester   Per Semester  Cumulative   % Disbursed           East Africa
1           0.4           0.4              5                   1
2           0.4           0.8             10                   4
3           0.8           1.6             19                  10
4           0.8           2.4             29                  17
5           0.8           3.2             39                  25
6           0.8           4.0             48                  35
7           0.7           4.7             57                  45
8           0.7           5.4             65                  55
9           0.7           6.1             73                  64
10           0.6           6.7             81                  73
11           0.4           7.1             86                  81
12           0.4           7.5             90                  87
13           0.3           7.8             94                  93
14           0.3           8.1             98                  97
i5           0.1           8.2             99                 100
16           0.1           8.3            100
Projected Completion Date  : September 30, 1996
Projected Closing Date      : March 31, 1997



- 84 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project
Documents Available in the Project Pile
1.  Tanzania - National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project -
Preparation Report, April 14, 1987.
2. Tanzania - National Agricultural Research Project - Manpower
Development and Training. A Preliminary Report by W.H. Reeves.
3.  TARO documents:
(i) TARO Organization Act 1980.
(ii)  Tanzania Coffee Development Programs - Coffee Research
Institute, Lyamungu - Research Proposals and Funding
Requirements, Phase III, 1986/87-1989/90.
(iii) Opportunities for Regional Collaboration in Coffee Research in
East and Central Africa, Bookers Agriculture International
Ltd., August 1986.
(iv)  Development Proposals for TARO, Tea Research Institute,
Mufindi-Xifulilo Farm.
(v) Consultancy on Documentation Systems in TARO - lAO Consultant,
A.M. Woodward, February 1987.
(vi)  Tanzania Farming Systems Project Final Technical Report,
December 1986.
(vii) Proposals for a National Drought Resistant Cereals Strategy -
Food Strategy Unit, MALD, December 1986 - 2 volumes.
(viii)  Cassaia Development in Tanzania, FAO-AtkWns Land and Water
Management, September-October 1986.
(ix)  Ukiriguru - 50 Years of Research - 1932-1982.
(x)  TARO Research Program Review, 1980/81 - 1984/8$.
(xi)  List of TARO's Professional Staff (as of May 1986).
(xii) TARO Scheme of Service.
(xiii)  Miscellaneous Financial, Accounting and Budget documents -
1982/83 - 1986/87.



- 85 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
4. TALIRO documents.
(i)  Tanzania Livestock Research Organization - Act No.2 of 1980.
dated March 14, 1980.
(ii)  TALIRO - Scheme of Service, 1980.
(iii) Annual Report of the Tanzania Livestock Research Organization,
for the Year 1983/84.
(iv)  Tanzania Livestock Research Organization - Fourth Staff List,
January 1986.
(v)  Tanzania Livestock Research Organization - First Five Year
Manpower Development Programme, 1983/84 - 1987/88, prepared by
the Directorate of Manpower Development end Administration.
(vi)  Tanzania Livestock Research Organization - Pasture Research
Programe, Pasture Research Institute, September 1986.
(vii) Tanzania Livestock Research Organization - Report of the
Auditors, 1982/893.
(viii) Tanzania Livestock Research Organization - Animal Diseases
Research Programme, AniAal Diseases Research Institute,
September 1986.
(ix)  Tanzania Livestock Research Organization - Livestock Production
Rsearch Programme, Livestock Production Research Institute.
5  UAC documents.
(i)  Subsidiary Legislation to the Gazette of the United Republic of
Tanzania. No.15, Vol. LVII, dated 9 April, 1976. - Government
Notice No.170, published on 9/4/76, The Public Corporation Act,
1969.
(ii)  List of Senior Research Staff.
(iii) The Uyole Agricultural Centre - Scheme of Service.
(iv)  Visitors' Guide, Uyole Agricultural Centre.  Extension Leaflet
No.32, Shirika La Kilimo Uyole 1984.
(v)  Uyole Agricultural Center - UAC Five-Year C,rporste Plan,
1987/88 - 1991/92, February/March 1987.
(vi)  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development - Visit to
Uyole Agricultural Centre by Messrs. Bubelwa and Than of PPMB
from 18th - 24th August, 1984, Agricultural Planning and
Marketing Division, dated October 1984.



- 86 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 4
(vii)  Ministry of Agr4culture - Visit Report on Uyole Agricultural
Centre by Dr. A.V. Chari, Agronomist, PPM! and Mrs. V.P.
Malima, Agricultural Director of Agricultural Research,
Kilimo. Agricultural Planning and Marketing Division, October
1983.
(viii) Uyole Agricultural Center - Annual Research Report 1982/83,
Mbeya Research Report No.44, May 1966.
6. TPRlI documents:
(i)  The United Republic of Tanzania, No.18 of 1979 - Act to
establish the Tropical Pesticides Research Institute.
(ii)  Tropical Pesticides Research Institute - Annual Report and
Accounts for the Period July 1, 1983 - June !O, 1984.
(iii)  United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development - Project Monitoring Report on TPRI,
Arusha, 7-9 January, 1985, dated February 1985
(iv)  United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development - Tropical Pesiticides Research Institute
Review of the Budget Proposals for 1986/87, dated February
1986.
(v)  United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of Agricuiture and
Livestock Development - Tropical Pesticides Research Institute
Code of Accounts and Cost Accounting System, dated September
1984.
(vi)  Tropical Pesticides Research Institute - Recurrent Budget
1986/87.
(vii) List of Publications - Miscellaneous Reports and Other
Publications: 1980-1986.
7.   Working Papers:
(i) Present Agricultural Research System parastatal organizations
and Sokoine University
(ii)  Suggestions for a Research Management Information System
(iii)  Suggestions for Programming and Budgeting Procedures
(iv) Suggestions for Updating and Standardizing Research Accounting
Systems
(v)  Livestock Research - Present Status and Possible Future Scope
of Livestock Research in Tanzania



- 87 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
8. Proposed Research Programs
(i) Prepared by International Council for Research in Agroforestry
(ICRAP), Nairobi
(a) Agroforestry Research Program
(ii) Prepared by Tanzania Agricultural Research Organization - TARO
(a)  Coffee Reseanch Program
(b)  Cotton Resear.h Program
(c)  Farming Systems Research Program
(d)  Maize Research Program
(e)  Roots and Tuber Research Program
(iii)  Prepared by Tanzania Livestock Research Organization (TALIRO)
(a)  Dairy Cattle Breeding Research Program
(b)  Dry Season Animal Nutrition Research Program
(c)  Pasture Improvement Research Program
(d)  'tick and Tick-Borne Disease Control Program
(e) Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis Control ResearAc Program



- 88-                                       ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project
Implementation Schedule
Completion        Agency
Key Tasks                        Date         Responsible
1. Research Services Consolidation
and   organizationL  __
(a) Cabinet recommendation to               April 30, 1988    MALD,
dissolve TARO and TALIRO and
establish a unified Research and
Training Department (RTD) in MALD
(b) Establish RTD                           July 1  1988       GOT
(c) Appoint Commissioner RTD                July 1, 1988       GOT/MALD
(d) Appoint RTD Headquarters Division       July 31, 1988      MALD
Heads
(e) Appoint Consolidation/                  August 31, 1988   RTD
Reorganization Task Force
members and leader
(f) Appoint Organization and Management
Consultants - Lead Consultant'/         August 31, 1988   RTD
- Other' members            Sept. 30, 1988    RTD
(g) Prepare and submit to IDA: 1/           March 31, 1988)   RTD
-plan for consolidation and
detailed organization of RTD
head office
-organization model for a xonal
research and training center
-report of consolidation
achieved to date
(h) Implement Plan.                         March 31, 1991    RTD
(i) Appoint contract Tanzanian              March 31, 1989    RTD
accounting firm
(j) Execute study on computerizing          November 30, 1989 RTD consolidation/
research management and                                    reorganization team and
accounting systems                                         specialist
2. Master Plan
(a) Appoint Working Groups, Leaders         Sept. 30, 1988    RTD
and Coordinator
(b) Appoint consultants. 1/                 Dec. 31, 1988      RTD
(c) Prepare Master Plan.                    Dec. 31, 1990      RTD
3. Establishment of National Agricultural
and Livestock Research Council              Dec. 31, 1988      GOT
4. RTD Headquarters
(a) Site identification                     Nov. 15, 1988      RTD
(b) Design - Prequalify contractors         June 30, 1989      RTD
(c) Bidding and award                       Nov. 30, 1989      RTD
(d) Construction and handover               Dec. 31, 1991      RTD



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
5. Traialng Program                             See Annex S        RTD
6. Cotton, Root/Tuber, FSR Programs 1/
(a) Recruit long-term TA                     October 1988  )   RTD HQ staff and consultant
(b) Vehicles Equipment:                                     )   together with FSR, cotton
(i) Draw up bid document              December 1988 )   and root/tubers scientists
(ii) Bidding and award                 May 1989       )
(iil) Delivery                          Nov/Dec 1989  )
(c) Civil works: I/
(1) Design and draw up bid            December 1988 )
documents                                        )
(ii) Bidding and award                 Mey 1989       )
Sitl) Construction                      November 1990 )
7. Urgently Need Vehicles, Equipment            as in para 6b      RTD with crops and livestock
and Materials                                                   research scientist
8. Mid-term Review
(a) Prepare mid-term review report         \ugust 31, 1991   RTD
(b) Conduct joint GOT-IDA review             October 31, 1991  RTD/IDA
-/ Wholly or partly financed by cofinanci rs.  Schedule subject to change by respective
cofinanciers.
2/ Does not apply to PSR construction and eijipment/vehicles purchase programs that would
spread over several years, as teams are established.



I3RO 20d'
(UGANDA.                                                                                                        4b
TANZANIA
f/!                                                                                                                                 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
;j RWANDA                                                                                           KENYA                          AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH
-                                                                                                                                                .PROJECT
RAINFALL
MEAN ANNUAL UXNFAL IN MKWAUM.T
BURUNDI)                                                                                                                     1 \rs00MLES00
ZFo   i   '  }   <                                                                                SEJER IWIE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  n
400 400
200.40D
'~~~~~~  if                                                          -.~~~~~~~~~&AA-INTERNATION4AL SOUNDARIS
PARt U IIALAJA
ZAIRE                                  o
a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
ZAMBIA
77.~~~~~~~~~~~~~,IE
0      so      100    IS0
( MALAWI                                                                                 0 5    Z    i    6
~~~ ~~MOZAMBIQUE                                  0 5        01        0



IBID  2O5
(UGANDA.
ZAIRE                  !0                                          LAK'E ~CTRtATANANI
~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
I<RW~ANDA'                                                                                                                                                                         KNY                                                      AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH
PROJECT
r                                                           'Y              ~~~~~~~~~POTENTIAL LAND USE
-    -                            ~~~~~~~~~GROUP 00 SOILS,
-~~  --   /                    5011,5~OIL ,,NSUITAELE FOR CROPPING,
\                                  )                              )Gaws. l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioclId ~SoIng f., . c6l, pcsdbiy fag.." is
DSOILS WHERE. UTTLE CROPPING IS POSSIBLE.
(Rnhig  eanne. s -soios insd.     oapln. sl
4,                                                                                                 C'IL                IT                            /                                        ERTiLE SOILS WIIEE LOW RAINFALL OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F"L SIL WER LW   MNAL    9 YMS
A'                                    0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      (~~~~~SHIALLO   ROTING  DEPTH LMdTs CROPO ILI
aag,as  ctw, boom with -I.a,  hwlno
~' '-      podasas cod SOtOtIts Wingated coRRos 5  hight
I . SOILS OP VERY LOW  FERTILITY WltH MODERATE
q                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POTENTILOk
SOILS OP LOW TO MEDIUM FERTILITY WITH
MODERtATE POTENTIAL
(Sisol, ..saadns..so sh.. .oIx. ..Y., cashw.,
j,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- SOILS Of MEDIUMA TO HIGH FERTILITY WITH HIGH
POTENTIAL.
pattac , tlsns  nin, P  alMsa  owst  nis
pass  logsa pslac hitgh altitudac  Isa1, clo,
cocac.robmst calfs, .p....sa  cacnu,; spi-s at
~~ MEAAM  ~~~~SOILS OP LOW  FERTILITY IN AREAS OP HIGH
(Taa, nabat calls, bananas tinbw.).
VARIOUS ALLUVIAL OR COLLUVIAL SOLS Of
o ~c E A' ~c~/ * CONSIDERABLE POTVNT1SA BUT OFTEN
ZAIRE                                                                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPECIAL MANAGEMENT.
Ioaco. samb, cahew. cattOn, nice, pastor,
dMAWA                           o     SELECTEIL TOWNS
-   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MILES
MOZAMBIQUE                                                                KILMMR
SUPTEMBER 1987



IBRD 2
.   _  I  W S                       tIo                    J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.                         4h,      _ 
-'UGANDA..0.....   C                                                                                                                                            TANZANIA
ZAIRE ~            KA9AGW9                LAKE    C-TORlk-- !TARIME-.
WRE, I4    '    <       AbGWEJ TARlr.  -NATIONAL  AGRICULTURAL
7/ ~~~~~~KAGEftA ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH
($ ~~ RWANDA  ~O   ~AA                                                                                                                                             PROJECT
t)$() RWANDAW i                                                 S RENGTI                                       KEN YA                               AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK
~~ MW~~~~~                                                                                                     RESEARCH INSTITUTES AND
'                 |~'~ N G A R  8 E I P IA R A MUMUfi;                 i                 9'    N N   .\                                                         r        CENTERS
1G 3URUNDI  J   j48t sif A  Cs  4   WKIIMANJARO                                               I UK;| O U*wcer
i   BURUNDI                                                      A                                                                                          A _)AoGo
7 M-o,AI.
LU                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a tIJm8I
9 U-'A  SeAd FT1
AAUL)                              ,IR\ AMBOA                                                                                                         10 |  C {tVWNO 
12 LYAMUHUo
13 Mi-oho
KITM                     mu.* \S-S <   M B SE r A40;:  /E   f i  RUFUI    37 Woc14 Moa&a
ov~~~~~~l (--I"       s           KONDOA                                                                   I'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 MUNGMJO
KIGOMA               0 5>0+                                                                                   S.                             6 VIA_DI  -)   /   +  \\ O C E A N   4Oe1
y                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17 I8I8AHA
JZMM            19 Noo6da~1
T AANDERI                                                                            P A                              20 A-1,o
22 Mfa..
TABORA                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23 MTwARA
MAN ONI                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26 MARIIIIANDA
Z A M                                                   MIA  NYEN                                                  -         H4ZA tN(L& UVISTOCID  RE5EARCH OASINSTllUT
DODON r ALAA*A  MOZA                                                                               MQUE AI o 50 COLNTERS
_ KILOSA                                                                                                                                          2; DAR .S SALAAAE  T EMBE111
28 Ko_gro
80                                                                                                                     2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 IpAHGA
SLIMIAWANGA   ~~~~~~~~'AOTHER ORGANIZAIIONSr
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNISTRY OF AGRICITURE AND UVEITOCK IIRYIOPMeNT
ULANGAACINOKA                                                SOLE AGEICUTURAL CENTER    0 5UB-CENTERS
4A4 MIaMoW
ATROPICAL PESTICIME ERSEARCH INSTMITUT
LJNDI ~ ~ ~~~~eSOKOINE UNIVRSTrY OP AGRICULTURE
*NATIONA CAPITAL
DISITBCT BOUJNDARIS
88010N BOUNDARIES
NEWALA  .       -   ~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
r~~~~~~~~oo                                                                                                                               MILAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MSS
IAAIA0.AIt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 sbio 110 288
1IW.~~~~~~~~~~L~~~~~~~VYI ~~~~~~MOZAMBIQUE                                                        KILOMETERS
ibo                                                                                                                                              SEPTEMBER 198i



