Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1970 TA
      (National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project)
                              between
                    UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 3, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1970 TA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1989, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the African Deve-
lopment Fund (AfDF) a loan (the AfDF Loan) in an amount equivalent
to eight  million  two  hundred  thousand  dollars ($8,200,000) to
assist in financing the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the AfDF Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and AfDF;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to request  from the Kingdom of the
Page  2
Netherlands (the Netherlands) a  grant  (the Netherlands Grant) in
an amount approximately  equivalent  to  two million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($2,700,000) to  assist  in financing part of the
Project;
     (D)  the Borrower intends to  request from the United Kingdom
of Great Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  (U.K.)  a  grant (the UK
Grant) in an amount  up  to  the  equivalent  of two million eight
hundred and  fifty  thousand  dollars  ($2,850,000)  to  assist in
financing part of the Project;
     (E)  the  Borrower  intends  to   request  from  the  Federal
Republic of Germany (West Germany) a grant (the West German Grant)
in an amount up to the  equivalent  of one million six hundred and
fifty thousand dollars ($1,650,000) to assist in financing part of
the Project;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless  the    context  otherwise requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of  letters  dated  September  26, 1986, and Novem-
ber 7, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association.
     (c)  "MALD" means the Borrower's  Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock Development;
     (d)  "RTD" means  the  new  Research  and Training Department
within MALD;
     (e)  "TARO" means the  Tanzania Agricultural Research Organi-
zation;
     (f)  "TALIRO" means the Tanzania Livestock Research Organiza-
tion;
     (g)  "TPRI" means the Tropical Pesticides Research Institute;
     (h)  "UAC" means the Uyole Agriculture Centre;
     (i)  "FSR" means Farming Systems Research; and
     (j)  "Donors"  means  Af.DB,  the  Netherlands,  UK  and West
Germany.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to six million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the  authorized  amount of the Project Pre-
paration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be March 31, 1997, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1
commencing March  1,  1999,  and  ending  September  1, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 1, 2008, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
Page  4
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern  Ireland  is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its Ministry of  Agriculture  and  Livestock  Development with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative,  financial  and  agricultural  and  livestock  research
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  maintain its annual
contribution to the  recurrent  research  budget,  at levels of at
least the 1987/1988 value in  real terms; (b) annually review with
the Association and  Donors  such  research  budget; and (c) after
acceptance of the Master Plan to  be  prepared under Part B of the
Project, revise budget allocations for research in accordance with
the recommendations of such Master Plan.
     Section 3.04.  The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  by  not later than
May 15, 1989, complete  its  study  to  identify  the site for the
headquarters  for  RTD;  and  (b)  commence  construction  of said
headquarters not later than December 31, 1989.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall,  by not later than June 30,
Page  5
1989, establish the  Research  Advisory  Committee of the National
Commission for Science and  Technology, with membership drawn from
farmers' groups, academia, private industry and the government.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall  by December 31, 1989, have
made institutional arrangements  satisfactory  to the Association,
for the integration of UAC's functions into RTD.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible  for  carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
Page  6
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that:
          (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  grant  or  loan  made to the
                    Borrower  for  the  financing  of  the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on  terms and conditions consis-
               tent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower under
               this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the  following  additional  event  is specified namely
that the events specified in paragraph  (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur,  subject  to  the proviso of paragraph
(ii) of that Section;
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  thus Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has  established  RTD  and appointed a head
and division heads within RTD;
     (b)  the Borrower has appointed  the  task force to assist in
implementing the consolidation  of  research services, referred to
in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (c)  the Borrower has set  up  the working parties to prepare
the Research Master Plan referred to  in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement;
     (d)  all conditions precedent to  the initial disbursement of
the  UK  Grant  and  the   West   German  Grant,  other  than  the
effectiveness of this Agreement have been fulfilled; and
     (e)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
AfDF Loan, other  than  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement have
been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
Page  7
tions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs
            and Planning
          P.O. Box 9111
          Dar es Salaam
          United Republic of Tanzania
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                TREASURY                        41329
                Dar es Salaam
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                          By  /s/ A. M. Hyera
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By  /s/ C. Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  8
(1)  Civil works                 1,000,000       100%
(2)  Vehicles and                1,100,000       100%
     equipment
(3)  Consultants'                  720,000       100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Administrative                 70,000       100%
     capital costs
(5)  Vehicle and                   360,000       100%
     equipment
     operating
     costs
(6)  Research fund               2,000,000       100%
     under Part F
     of the Project
(7)  Refunding of                  360,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(8)  Unallocated                   390,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                   6,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this  Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Borrower for  goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures  under Category (6), with
respect  to  research  subprojects   costing  more  than  $100,000
equivalent,  until  the  Association  has  approved  such research
subproject.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to  implement the first
stage of developing an  organized and efficiently managed agricul-
tural and livestock research system within Tanzania.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Establishment of a new  organizational structure for agricul-
tural  and   livestock   research   in   Tanzania,  including  the
construction of headquarters building.
Part B:
     Preparation of a Master  Plan  for agricultural and livestock
research, which in  accordance  with national policies, identifies
Page  9
available resources and  research  activities  ranked  in order of
priority, and defines the  human, physical and financial resources
required for each such activity.
Part C:
     Provision of training for agricultural and livestock research
staff to strengthen  management  and  research  methodology and to
support the research programs referred to in Part D below.
Part D:
     Support  for  identified   cotton,   root/tuber  and  farming
research programs.
Part E:
     Provision  of  urgently   required  vehicles,  equipment  and
materials for ongoing research activities.
Part F:
     Establishment of  a  research  fund  for  crop  and livestock
research programs, in  accordance  with  priorities  agreed by the
Borrower and the Association or contained in the Master Plan.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   (a)  Bidders for the civil  works  under the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  To the extent  practicable,  contracts  for vehicles and
equipment shall be grouped in  bid  packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Tanzania may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil  works  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $500,000 each and  for  goods estimated to cost less
Page  10
than the equivalent of $100,000 each,  may be awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Training aids and equipment  may  be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list  of  at  least  three  suppliers  from  at least three
different countries, eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Small off-the-shelf items  estimated  to  cost  less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract  up  to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $250,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.   Proprietary spare  parts,  scientific  journals and textbooks
may be procured directly by negotiation with suppliers.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (a) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $100,000  or  more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said  paragraph 2 (d) shall be fur-
nished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Page  11
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Annual Work Programs
1.   The Commissioner for Research  and  Training shall be respon-
sible for Project implementation.  MALD shall initially be respon-
sible for establishing a  core  headquarters organization for RTD,
appointment  of  division  heads,  setting  up  the consolidation/
restructuring task force and  the  working  parties to prepare the
Research Master  Plan.  The  core  headquarters organization shall
consist of the following divisions; crops, livestock, training and
support services. In addition there  shall  be a unit for research
planning, monitoring,  evaluation  and  financial  control  in the
Office of the Commissioner.
2.   The Borrower shall cause  RTD to prepare annual work programs
to help organize Project  implementation  and to monitor progress.
Such annual work programs shall  include:  (a) a review of Project
implementation in the current year;  (b) a detailed description of
work to be carried  out  in  the forthcoming year including objec-
tives, deployment of staff and equipment; (c) any requirements for
additional staff, equipment and  inputs;  (d) any requirements and
arrangements  for  technical  assistance,  and  local  and foreign
training; and (e) a budget  and financing plan. The Borrower shall
submit  such  annual   work   programs   to   the  Association  by
September  30  of  each  year,   commencing  in  1989,  and  shall
thereafter carry out such annual programs taking the Association's
comments into account.
3.   The Borrower shall not later than October 31, 1991, undertake
a mid-term review of  Project  Implementation with the Association
and Donors. Prior to  such  review  by  not  later than August 31,
1991, the Borrower shall prepare a report in accordance with terms
of reference agreed by the  Borrower and the Association. Based on
the results of the review,  the Borrower and the Association shall
agree on the use of the  Research Fund established under Part F of
the Project, as well  as  on  changes  that  are needed to improve
Project implementation.
Consolidation of Research Institutes
4.   MALD research services will be consolidated with TARO, TALIRO
and UAC into RTD. The Borrower  shall establish a task force to be
chaired by a member  of  RTD,  with membership satisfactory to the
Association.  To  assist  the   Borrower   in  carrying  out  this
consolidation  and   to   strengthen   the  Research  Department's
management capabilities,  the  Borrower  shall  employ consultants
under terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association. The
Borrower shall not later  than  October  31,  1989, furnish to the
Association  for  review,  a   plan,  including  a  timetable  for
consolidating  the  research  services.  The  Borrower  shall then
implement such plan  in  accordance  with  the timetable following
review by the Association.
5.   In strengthening the Research Department's management capabi-
lity, the Borrower shall  install  a management information system
which shall include  research  program  monitoring and evaluation.
Uniform accounting procedures and methods  shall be applied in all
research institutes and centers to  improve their systems in order
to allow for the timely execution of their work programs.
Research Master Plan
6.   The Borrower shall be responsible  for the preparation of the
Master Plan to be undertaken  by  the Commissioner of RTD assisted
by  staff  members  and  consultants  under  terms  and conditions
Page  12
satisfactory  to  the  Association.  RTD  shall  appoint  specific
individuals to  head  working  parties  and  a  senior official as
coordinator in preparing the  Master  Plan. The recommendations of
the  Agricultural  Research  Adivsory  Committee  shall  be sought
during the preparation of the  Master  Plan. The Borrower shall by
not later than  December  31,  1990,  furnish the completed Master
Plan to the Association for its review.
7.   The  Master  Plan  shall  review  and  define  the  resources
available  for  the  total  agricultural  and  livestock  research
program and  identify  priority  research  areas  over the short-,
medium-  and  long-term.   It   shall   rank  individual  research
activities in order  of  priority,  so  that  the research program
shall  be  in  accordance   with  available  resources.  It  shall
recommend what additional human  and  financial resources would be
needed to carry  out  essential  priority research activities. The
Master  Plan  shall   develop   long-term  staff  development  and
training, including  a  five-year  manpower  development  plan and
review terms and conditions of employment of research staff.
8.   The Master Plan shall  provide  the  details of the decentra-
lized  zonal  research  station  system,  which  the  Borrower has
decided to implement.  The  Master  Plan  shall, inter alia, study
TPRI to determine whether or  not TPRI's current activities should
be integrated into RTD.
9.   The Borrower shall  present  the  Master  Plan  to Donors and
shall thereafter  invite  Donors  to  annual  planning meetings to
coordinate  assistance  to  agricultural  and  livestock research.
Commencing  in  1992,  the  Borrower  shall  annually  update  its
National Agricultural Research Plan,  and  furnish it to the Asso-
ciation for its review by March 31 in each year.
10.  The Borrower  shall,  commencing  in  1992:  (a)  introduce a
review of research by  an  independent  panel  every four years to
provide an  external  evaluation  of  research  programs;  and (b)
consult  with  the  Association  on  the  terms  of  reference and
composition of such independent panel.
Research/Extension Linkages
11.  The  Borrower  shall  undertake  a  farming  systems research
program  and  develop   regular   contacts  between  research  and
extension  workers,   to   ensure   that   farmers'  problems  are
investigated  and  that  research  results  are  provided  to  the
extension service for advise  to  the  farmers. The Borrower shall
second a senior extension staff member to each FSR team to work as
research-extension liasion officer. He shall organize workshops on
a regular basis  preferably  monthly,  but  at least quarterly, at
which the FSR team and such  other research specialists, as may be
needed, shall meet with  extension  subject matter specialists and
staff supervisors. In addition  such  staff members shall organize
an  annual  research  extension  workshop,  to  be  held  at zonal
research stations,  at  the  time  when  research program planning
takes place, in order  to:  (a)  ensure  an input by the extension
service in the planning  of  the  zonal research program; (b) plan
the  seasonal  extension  timetable  and  timing  of  the  regular
research/extension workshops;  and  (c)  plan  the  on-farm trials
programs.
Staff Development and Training
12.  A comprehensive long-term training  program shall be prepared
under the Master  Plan.  Until  the  Master  Plan is implemented a
training program, shall commence with short-term training, lasting
two to four weeks, for  research managers and in research methodo-
logy, at appropriate local institutions. Similar training shall be
provided  for  planning,   budgeting,   financial  management  and
control, as well as  for  upgrading accountancy standards. Special
training for selected senior  research manager shall be undertaken
overseas. Scientists and  technicians  shall  be trained through a
variety of means including  degree  and diploma programs, training
Page  13
courses  at  International  Research   Centers,  study  tours  and
exchange programs. The Borrower shall furnish the training program
to the Association for its review  by not later than September 30,
1989.
Research Fund
13.  The  Research   Fund   shall   finance  research  subprojects
according to identified priorities  and within resources specified
by the Master Plan.  Funding  shall  be available for all expendi-
tures except local recurrent  costs.  The Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit within  RTD  shall  collaborate with the different
research  units  to  prepare  subprojects.  Sub-projects  shall be
reviewed  by  the  Commissioner  of   RTD,  assisted  by  a  panel
comprising  the  division   heads   within   the  department.  All
subprojects costing more than  $100,000  each, shall thereafter be
submitted to the Association  for  approval prior to funding under
the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 300,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting  the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
Page  14
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion  shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized  in  making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
