Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11013
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
KARNALI PREPARATION PROJECT - PHASE I
(Credit 1452-NEP)
August 7, 1992
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit   -  Nepalese Rupee (NR)
NR 1.00         -  US$0.064 (end-1983)
- US$0.023 (end-1991)
US$1.00         -  NRs 15.65 (end-1983)
- NRa 42.70 (end-1991)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km        -  Kilometer (- 0.6214 miles)
kV        -  Kilovolt (thousand volts)
kW        -  Kilowatt (thousand watts)
kWh       -  Kilowatt hour (- 860.42 Kilocalories)
MW        - Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA       -   Canadian International Development Agency
CK         -   Committee on Karnali
FSL        -   Full Supply Level
GOI        -   Government of India
HPC        -   Himalayan Power Consultants
HMG/N      -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
KCC        -   Karnali Coordinating Committee
KCG        -   Karnali Consultants Group
KMP        -   Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project
NEA        -   Nepal Electricity Authority
NK         -   Nippon Koei Co. Ltd.
OBI        -   Overseas Bechtel Incorporated
PCR        -   Project Completion Report
SMHA       -   Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Authority
TOR        -   Terms of Reference
UKHP       -   Upper Karnali Hydroelectric Project
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Programme
WB         -  World Bank
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofce of DirectonCenai
Operat:mn Evaluatkn
August 7, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on NEPAL
Karnali Preparation Project - Phase I (Credit 1452-NEP)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on NEPAL - Karnali Preparation Project - Phase I
(Credit 1452-NEP)" prepared by South Asia Regional Office.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment                                                 2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
KARNALI PREPARATION PROJECT - PHASE I
(Credit 1452-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .
Evaluation Summary ..........................                                       .i
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity .
2. Background .
3. Project Objectives and Description..                                              2
4. Project Design and Organization..                                                 3
5. Project Implementation..                                                          4
6. Project Results..                                                                 6
7. Bank Performance... 8
8. Borrower Performance               .        .. . . . . . . .8
9. Project Relationships                   ..9
10. Consulting Services                             9.9
11. Project Documentation and Data..                                                  9
Annex I - Project Organization.. . 10
Annex 2 - Project Summary Statistics..  11
Part II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity....    . . .  .                                                 12
2. Background   .....                                      .....                    12
3. Objective             ....... .... 13
4. Scope of Work.......... .  13
5.  Project Organization           . . . ..      ......                   .         14
6.  Project Implementation                   14...                 .....            14
7. Study Results....                                        .....                   14
8. Development Impact   ....                              .. .... 15
9.  Lessons Learned and Recommendations......                              .         16
10. Other Matters.                                      . ......    17
11. Bridging Studies....                            ......   17
12. Integration Studies   ....                              .. .... 18
13. Concluding Remarks                 . .           ..... .  .                       18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related IDA Credits .e .. ...        .       ...........  19
2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
3.  Credit Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
4.  Project Implementation ...........  .   ..........  21
5.  Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
6. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .23
7. Status of Covenants  ...... .. ........ .                            23
8. Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
KARNALI PREPARATION PROJECT - PHASE I
(Credit 1452-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Karnali
Preparation Project - Phase I in Nepal, for which Credit 1452-NEP in the
amount of SDR 10.2 million (US$ 11.0 million equivalent) was approved on March
20, 1984. The final disbursement under the Credit was made on November 13,
1990, and the Credit was closed on December 31, 1990 with a total disbursement
of SDR 10,148,368.30. SDR 44,452.16 was undisbursed as of December 31, 1990
and was cancelled as of that date. SDR 7,179.54 undisbursed in the Special
Account was refunded to the Credit Account on August 8, 1991 and was cancelled
as of that date.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure
Division, Country Department 1, South Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). Preparation
of the PCR was started in November 1990 during IDA's final supervision mission
for the project and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report,
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, progress reports,
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



I



- li -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
KARNALI PREPARATION PROJECT - PHASE I
(Credit 1452-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.        The development of a major hydropower project at Chisapani on the
Karnali River in Western Nepal has long been recognized as one of the most
promising hydroelectric developments in Nepal which could generate substantial
benefits from power export to India. Previous studies had examined the
project's viability but did not consider the multipurpose aspects of the
development and were inconclusive on the issues of project size and dam
location. A final feasibility study was needed to confirm the project's
technical and economic feasibility, given the geological and seismic risks in
the area. At the same time, given India's stake and interest in the project
development, India had to be closely involved in the study's supervision. IDA
provided a credit of SDR 10.2 million to His Majesty's Government of Nepal
(HMG/N), the executing agency being a Project Unit within the Ministry of
Water Resources. India's involvement in the study's supervision was through
two joint committees: (a) a high level (Secretariat) committee, the Committ-e
on Karnali; and (b) a technical coordinating committee, the Karnali
Coordinating Committee. This was the second credit granted to Nepal in the
power sector following the Kulekhani project (Cr. 600-NEP) approved in 1976.
Since then IDA has provided three additional credits, the most recent of which
was approved in March 1992.
Oblectives
ii.       Overall the project achieved its specific objectives and has
defined the optimum location and design of a viable scheme, hence resolving
the issues raised in the previous feasibility studies.
iii.      The project also established the prefeasibility study of an
attractive 240 MW run-of-river scheme on the Karnali Bend upstream of the
Chisapani site.
Implementation ExDerience
iv.       Despite about one and a half years delay, overall project
implementation was satisfactory. The project implementation delay was due
mainly to: (a) the delayed appointment of the Study Consultant (para. 5.3);
(b) protracted management decision processes within HMG/N's bureaucracy (para.
5.4); (c) the lengthy and delayed review process involving India through the
main and coordinating committees (para.5.5); and (d) the Study Consultant's
difficulty in gaining access to basic data mainly from India (para. 5.6).



- iii -
Results
v.        The project confirmed that the Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose
Project (KMP) scheme (10,800 MW at a cost of US$ 5 billion in 1988 dollars) is
technically feasible and economically very attractive. However, the projeet
did not address the numerous financial and institutional issues associated
with the development of a binational project of this size. These issues and
the project's macroeconomic impacts on the Nepalese economy vill be addressed
under a UNDP-financed Integration Study which may also involve India's
participation and is expected to start in 1992 or 1993 with IDA as the
executing agency. IDA also plans to carry out sector work on Nepal-India
power trade issues starting in 1993.
vi.       While the prefeasibility of the 240 MW run-of-river scheme upstream
of Chisapani has been established, fundamental questions concerning the weak
geology, dam foundations and sedimentation remain to be answered. These
issues will be addressed through further site investigations to be carried out
under the proposed Upper Karnali feasibility study.
vii.      The institutional arrangements devised to involve India in the
supervision of the study did not succeed in raising India's interest in the
project's development and in moving the project to the next phase of detailed
engineering as was initially anticipated.
Findings and Lessons Learned
viii.     The main lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a) for a binational project, more binding binational arrangements --
probably in which both countries borrow and are obligated to IDA --
should be considered (para. 8.3);
(b) the complex institutional, financial and macroeconomic aspects of
the KMP development should have been part of the feasibility study
(para. 7.3);
(c) a contracting philosophy of a Client/Consultant relationship, as
opposed to an Owner/Contractor relationship, should be adopted for
studies where terms of reference and scope may change during
contract execution (para. 9.1);
(d) to facilitate good working relationships, the compensation package
for counterpart personnel provided to the Consultant should not be
too different from that of the local labor market from which the
Consultant may hire local consultants (para. 6.3); and
(e) when IDA supports preparation of a binational project, arrangements
need to be made to insure that IDA has an effective dialogue vith
both countries (para. 7.2).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
KARNALI PREPARATION PROJECT - PHASE I
(Credit 1452-NEP)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Prolect Identity
Name                 : Karnali Preparation Project - Phase I
Credit Number        : 1452-NEP
RVP Unit             : South Asia Region
Country              : Nepal
Sector               : Energy
Subsector            : Power
2.   Background
2.1       Nepal's energy resources consist mainly of hydroelectric potential
estimated to be around 83,000 MW, of which less than 250 MW had been developed
by 1992. Traditional fuels, mainly wood, account for 93X of total energy use.
Commercial energy (coal, petroleum products and electricity), which accounts
for 7% of total energy use, supplies industry, commerce, transport and
residential consumers in the main cities. Coal and petroleum products are
imported from India as there is no domestic production or known reserves of
fossil fuels in Nepal.
2.2       About 9% of Nepal's population has access to electricity, and
annual per capita consumption is about 25 kWh, one of the lowest in the world.
Although electricity consumption grew at a rate of 18X in the 1970's and 9S in
the 1980's, the local market remains limited, and Nepal will not be in a
position to use a substantial amount of its hydroelectric potential in the
coming 40 to 50 years. On the other hand, the construction of medium and
large projects with lower development costs (on a unit-cost basis) will not be
possible unless Nepal can export a substantial portion of the electricity
generated to India, the natural customer for it. Electricity exports would
not only reduce the cost of internal consumption through economies of scale
but would also generate foreign.exchange to support development efforts in
Nepal. The substitution of Nepalese hydropower for coal-fired generation in
India would also be environmentally beneficial.
2.3       The Indian power system is developing rapidly.  In 1989 the total
installed capacity was about 50,000 MW, which included 19,000 MW for the
Northern India region and 8,500 MW for the Eastern India region, both of which
border Nepal. Demand has continued to grow at a rapid rate (9-10% p.a.), and
the supply capability has not kept pace with growth in demand. As a
consequence, India has continued to suffer from very significant load
shedding.
2.4       It has long been recognized that one of the most promising
multipurpose developments in Nepal would be a major hydropower project at
Chisapani on the Karnali River in Western Nepal. Before breaking through the



-2-
last mountain range onto the Terai, the river has carved a 4 kilometers (km)
long deep gorge which provides an ideal location for a high dam. In 1962, His
Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMG/N) obtained financial aid from UNDP for a
survey of the Karnali River potential. The studies, carried out by Nippon
Kosi Co. Ltd. (NK) of Japan between December 1962 and February 1966,
identified ten sites with potential varying from 18 to 1,800 MW. Among the
various sites, the consultants recommended the development of a concrote
gravity-arch dam with an 1,800 MW surface hydro plant at the upstream site of
Chisapani.
2.5       NK's studies and recommendations were reviewed by the Snowy
Mountains Hydroelectric Authority (SMHA) of Australia in 1968 under a UNDP-
funded contract with HMG/N. Further site investigations were recommended in
parallel with the study of an alternative embankment dam at the downstream
site and an increased installed capacity. In 1976 HMG/N hired two firms,
Norconsult from Norway and Electrowatt from Switzerland, to carry out further
studies. Both firms concurred with SMHA's recommendation and proposed tho
development of an embankment dam at the downstream site with 3,600 MW
installed capacity. Both of these earlier studies, however, viewed the
Chisapani project as a single purpose project, and no quantitative evaluation
of potential irrigation in the Terai was carried out.
2.6       In view of the results of the studies, in 1978 HMG/N and the
Government of India (GOI) established a high level joint committee, the
Committee on Karnali (CK), to promote bilateral discussions on the Karnali
(Chisapani) Multipurpose Project (KMP). At its first meeting in 1978, the
Committee agreed to review the consultants' reports and the proposed projoct's
economic and financial aspects. It was recognized that the first step would
be to carry out a final feasibility study of the project which would consider
the relative merits of the two alternative dam sites, assess the water-related
benefits, and ensure that the selected devolopment would be compatible with
the most likely development of the Karnali basin. In 1981 the CK also agreed
that this feasibility study would be carried out under joint supervision,
mutually agreed terms of reference, and jointly selected consultants.
Subsequently, IDA was invited to propose draft terms of reference (TOR) for
the studies of Chisapani. The draft TOR, completed in September 1981 and
reviewed by both Governments, was the basis of appraisal of the project by IDA
in February 1983.
3.   Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.1       The project's main objective was to assess the economic
justification and technical viability of the KMP as a multipurpose project on
the Karnali River in Nepal, with India being closely involved in the study's
supervision. The findings of the feasibility study of Chisapani would form
the basis on which India and Nepal would decide whether or not to undertake
the next phase, which would include detailed engineering, design and
preparation of bidding documents. The project was also to assess tho
prefeasibility of a smaller hydroelectric project upstream of Chisapani (Upper
Karnali), mainly for domestic use.



-3-
3.2       The project consisted of:
(a) preparation of the final feasibility study for Chisapani including
all necessary engineering work to confirm the scheme's technical
and economic feasibility;
(b) prefeasibility of a proposed smaller project upstream of Chisapani
(Upper Karnali); and
(c) provision of advisory consulting services to HMG/N for overall
supervision of the project.
The project also included the acquisition of equipment, materials and
instruments needed for site investigations as well as civil works related to:
-    rehabilitation and maintenance of a 2 km runway and related airport
facilities at Tikapur, the nearest airport to Chisapani;
-    construction, operation and maintenance of a heliport at Karnali
Bend;
-    rehabilitation and maintenance of about 25 km of access roads from
Tikapur to Chisapani;
-    construction of exploratory tunnels at Chisapani (about 800
meters); and
-    construction of temporary housing and office facilities at
Chisapani and Karnali Bend.
4.   Proiect Design and Organization
4.1       Although the feasibility study was financed solely by Nepal, India
was to be closely involved through the Committee on Karnali in the selection
of the Study Consultant, supervision of the study, and endorsement of its
recommendations. To advise the CK on technical matters regarding execution of
the Chisapani studies, a joint technical committee, the Karnali Coordinating
Committee (KCC), was established in 1984 with four technical staff appointed
by each Government. The coordinating committee was to review the Study
Consultant's work and make recommendations to the CK on policy decisions.
Further, an International Board of Experts was to be appointed to advise the
coordinating committee on specialized technical matters.
4.2       Nepal's Ministry of Water Resources was responsible for
administering the project. A Project Director, who reported to the Secretary,
Ministry of Water Resources, was responsible for day-to-day administrative
matters. He had to provide the logistic support and qualified counterpart
personnel to the Study Consultant and served as a liaison between the parties
involved in the project. The studies under the project were carried out by
Himalayan Power Consultants (HPC)1, in accordance with TOR approved by the CK
in February 1984. Since Nepal did not have sufficient capability to execute
projects of the size and complexity of Karnali, HMG/N appointed independent
consultants, Overseas Bechtel Incorporated (OBI), to serve as its general
project advisors. The project organization chart is given in Annex 1.
1/ HPC is a consortium of consultants which includes Acres (Canada), Ebasco
(USA), Shawinigan (Canada) and SNC (Canada).



-4-
4.3       The prefeasibility study of a smaller project upstream of Chisapani
(Upper Karnali) was carried out by HPC under the supervision of the Nepal
Electricity Authority (NEA) and did not involve the CR since the project,
unlike Chisapani, was intended mainly to supply the Nepalese domestic market.
4.4       The institutional arrangements were designed to involve India as
much as possible in the KMP studies through the main and coordinating
committees because India would be the sole customer of the energy to be
generated by the KMP. However, the two committees did not function as
efficiently as anticipated, and as a result, the two sides had conflicting
views on the project design and benefit evaluation. The Indian counterparts
in the coordinating committee did not endorse the methodology proposed by HPC
of avoided cost for the evaluation of power benefits and denied that there
could be any irrigation benefits. HPC was, therefore, not provided access to
all of the data needed for power planning in India and for irrigation
developments. Further, the Indian counterparts in the main and coordinating
committees raised reservations on some important project design features
(para. 6.5) and were unwilling to agree that an International Board of Experts
be appointed to review the study and provide an independent expert opinion on
the key design parameters.
5.   Proiect Implementation
5.1       Credit 1452-NEP was approved on March 20, 1984, and signed on March
22, 1984. The Credit was made effective on June 21, 1984, upon submission of
the legal opinion since there were no special conditions for effectiveness.
5.2       At the time of appraisal, both the KMP feasibility study and the
Upper Karnali prefeasibility study were expected to be completed by June 30,
1988, and the Credit closing date was December 31, 1988. The studies were
actually completed in December 1989, almost a year and a half behind the
original schedule. This was due mainly to: (a) the delayed appointment of the
Study Consultant; (b) protracted management decision processes within the
Nepalese bureaucracy; (c) the lengthy and delayed review process involving the
main and coordinating committees; and (d) the Study Consultant's difficulty in
gaining access to basic data mainly from India. Further, the Project Unit
adopted a rigid approach in administering the contract, placing all risks
associated with unavoidable delays and cost overruns with the Consultant.
5.3       In view of the contract's size (the original contract amount was
about US$ 8.5 million), the project raised world-wide interest in the
consulting community, and a working group was set up within the Bank to
monitor the selection process. Following an invitation issued on May 28,
1984, proposals were received from seven consortia of consultants representing
23 major consulting firms from 11 countries. The proposals were evaluated by
a joint Nepal-India technical group which ranked the consultant Karnali
Consultants Group (KCG)2 first and HPC second. The evaluation of the
proposals by the OBI advisor, who took office in January 1985, reached a
different conclusion and ranked HPC first. The results leaked outside, and
2/ KCG: Snowy Mountain (Australia), Harza (USA), Nippon Koei (Japan), and
Binnie & Partners (UK).



-5-
both consultants complained to the Bank. Political events in India in lato
1984 prevented the KCC from meeting between October 1984 and April 1985.
Following its own review, the coordinating co =ittee confirmed the OBI
advisor's recommendation, and on June 6, 1985, HMG/N notified IDA that the
Committee on Karnali had selected HPC for the studies and sought IDA's
concurrence. However, in view of inconsistencies in the evaluation reports
submitted by HMG/N, IDA decided to review KCG's and HPC's proposals. IDA's
evaluation concluded that both consortia scored about the same number of
points, and on November 1985, IDA gave its concurrence to HMG/N's selection of
HPC. It then took another six months for EMG/N to complete the negotiations
with HPC, and the contract was executed only on May 28, 1986, exactly two
years after the invitation of proposals. Actual mobilization of HPC was
effective in June 1986.
5.4       The original contract for the KMP feasibility study was
optimistically scheduled to be completed in June 1988, and all field
investigations were to be carried out in one dry season. By March 1987, HPC
recognized the need for a Contract Variation because of delays of approval of
equipment procurement and subcontracts, unavailability of data on a timely
basis, extension of the project scope in relation to the scheme's installed
capacity, and introduction of a cost escalation budget not provided in the
original contract. Following protracted and lengthy negotiations, Contract
Variation 1, based on completion of the project in December 1988, was finally
signed in July 1988. It was soon realized, however, that because of further
delays which had occurred, the project could not be completed in December
1988, within the schedule and budget of Contract Variation 1. Protracted
negotiations of Contract Variation 2 were held beginning in January 1989 and
led to signing of Contract Variation 2 in July 1989, with project completion
scheduled for December 1989.
5.5       The coordinating committee's supervision of the study turned out to
be too infrequent and too formal and bureaucratic; and the "positioning
effort" of each side prevented consensus even on technical matters. The
working relationship within the coordinating committee was highly sensitive to
the political climate prevailing between the two countries. In particular,
the coordinating committee did not meet during the Trade and Transit Dispute
(March 1989 to April 1990). Although informal contacts were maintained during
this period, India's final comments on the final draft reports were received
only in October 1990.
5.6       Lack of key data from India concerning power system planning and
irrigation developments delayed execution of parts of the study. To complete
the study, HPC had to use published data and make a number of assumptions
which could be questioned. In view of the long-term planning horizon, the
assumptions made on load growth, fuel cost, load factor, project cost and
construction schedules necessarily include some risk and uncertainty. A
number of sensitivity studies were carried out, however, to test the
robustness of the study findings.
5.7       The prefeasibility of the Upper Karnali scheme was equally delayed,
and the final report was issued only in December 1989. With the delayed
issuance of the report, the Upper Karnali scheme was no longer the next most
attractive option since HMG/N had already committed itself to the Arun 3
scheme, the detailed design of which was well underway.



-6-
5.8       The delay in the execution of the studies, combined with HIG/N
having drastically reduced HPC's proposed staff time during contract
negotiations, resulted in the need to increase contractual amounts during the
study's execution. In particular, the number of staff months included in the
contract to carry out satisfactory environmental and resettlement work was
totally inadequate, and HPC had to devote much greater staff time to this
critical area. There were two Contract Variations with HPC and three with
OBI. The cost increases were directly related to the increased level of
effort and duration of the study as well as adjustment of consultant fees.
For the KMP feasibility study, the level of effort deployed was almost 701
greater than anticipated (560 staff months against 332 budgeted). Also,
during the review process, HPC had to maintain a team of experts in Kathmandu
over a longer period than planned to address the various comments from the
KCC, IDA and HMG/N. Further, to respond to comments by IDA, additional
studies were carried out to test the project's robustness under various
planning assumptions concerning the Indian system, and an additional contract
had to be concluded with HPC (US$ 215,000 and NRa. 1.4 million).
6.  Prolect Results
6.1       Overall the project achieved its specific objectives.  The KMP
study defined the optimum location and design of a viable scheme, resolving
the issues raised in the two previous feasibility studies. Further, the
Consultant should be given credit for having prepared a design which provid-e
three times the original capacity. This substantially enhances the project's
potential economic benefits through displacement of peak capacity in the
Indian system. However, this led to adopting several design parameters at
scales which generated reservations among the Indian counterparts, who lacked
experience with projects of the proposed scale. The optimized KMP scheme
recommended in the study (10,800 NW at a cost of USS 5 billion in 1988
dollars) is technically feasible and economically very attractive. The
optimized project's main features are given in Annex 2. The study recommended
a 270 meter high embankment dam located at the upstream site of the Chisapani
gorge; an underground powerhouse cavern for 18 units of 600 MW each; re-
regulating facilities located 8 km downstream to provide uniform daily flows
for irrigation from the highly variable flows of the DMP; and five 765 kV
transmission lines to connect to the Indian system 300 km away. Regulation by
the dam would provide a four-fold increase in dry season low flow with
corresponding increases in agricultural production. In order to construct the
project, however, it would be necessary to resettle about 60,000 people.
Although not fully assessed yet, there may also be some loss of river habitat
and encroachment on the Royal Bardiya Wildlife Reserve which is an area of
special environmental significance.
6.2       The project also established the prefeasibility of an attractive
240 MW run-of-river scheme on the Karnali Bend upstream of the Chisapani site.
However, unlike the KMP, the consultant did not carry out sufficient site
investigations to address the fundamental questions of the weak geology, dam
foundations and sedimentation. These investigations would be carried out
under a proposed Upper Karnali feasibility study.
6.3       The project also achieved to some extent its objectives of
transferring knowledge and providing on-the-job training. The study was



-7-
executed entirely in Nepal with wide participation by Nepalese engineers (up
to 40 Nepalese for 22 expatriates). Problems were encountered, however, with
the timing and continuity of the counterpart staff provided. Further, the
system of salary scales and incentive allowances for counterpart staff,
compounded by differences with remuneration packages offered by HPC for
directly hired local staff, contributed to problems in creating good team
working relationships.
6.4       Unlike the previous studies, a major effort was made to assess the
KMP's environmental impact and resettlement issues using local and expatriate
staff. Further work is needed, however, to firm up the baseline environmental
conditions to allow an authoritative assessment of impacts and mitigation.
Some of the main outstanding environmental questions will be addressed in the
Bridging Studies which commenced in November 1991 under financing by the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). In addition, an
environmental impact statement and resettlement plan would need to be prepared
during the detailed engineering phase of the MP's development.
6.5       The project did not succeed, however, in winning India's full
commitment to the KMP, and a decision to proceed with the next phase (detailed
engineering) is still uncertain. As yet, the feasibility study has not been
formally approved by the Committee on Karnali because of reservations raised
by the Indian counterparts on some KMP design features. These reservations
pertain to:
(a) the dam height and size -- the full supply level (FSL) of 415
meters with a 270 meters high dam is considered too risky; a lower
FSL is preferred with a smaller dam;
(b) the rate of sedimentation of 260 million tons per year estimated by
HPC is judged excessive;
(c) the probable maximum flood of 63,000 cubic meters/second is
regarded as too high;
(d) the underground powerhouse cavern's size is considered risky in
view of the site's geological and seismic conditions; and
(e) there is no agreement on the methodology used to evaluate the
project benefits.
The Panel of Experts (para. .7.1) appointed by IDA to review the study did not
raise such concerns and concurred that the proposed scheme is technically
feasible.
6.6       Despite these reservations, India is convinced that the KRP is a
very attractive project which will be implemented at some time in the future.
However, based on the latest meetings of the India-Nepal Sub-Commission on
Water Resources, it seems that other projects, such as the Pancheswar
Multipurpose Project on the Mahakali River on the Nepal/India border, may be
considered for development as well. Therefore, at the conclusion of the KMP
feasibility study, it is unclear whether India and Nepal are closer to signing
an agreement to proceed with implementation of the KMP than they were before
the study. In addition, further work (which has now been initiated under the



-8-
Bridging Studies) is needed to confirm the project's environmental
acceptability.
7.   Bank Performance
7.1       At the identification stage, the Bank devoted great efforts to
convince Nepal and India to undertake the KMP final feasibility study as a
first phase of the KMP's development. The Bank drafted the terms of reference
and assisted in finalizing the institutional arrangements for joint
supervision of the study. Using a trust fund, the Bank appointed a Panel of
Experts which provided detailed comments on the study.
7.2       The Bank recognized at the outset that Joint development of large
export-oriented projects would face difficulties in agreeing how the project
should be developed and the benefits shared. During supervision, the Bank's
role was more focused on the progress of the study itself rather than on the
Nepal-India interactions. The Bank's role as an intermediary "honest broker"
was made more difficult by the split of internal responsibility for Nepal and
India into two separate departments. To play an effective intermediary role,
the Bank needed to communicate with both countries at the highest level, and
the management of the project from only one country department may not have
been as effective as it might have been under the pre-1987 Bank organizational
structure. However, the Bank could not have anticipated the souring of
political relations between the two countries, and an even more intensive Bank
dialogue with India would not have achieved much during a period of such
strained relations.
7.3       Resolution of the complex technical, financial, institutional,
legal and riparian rights issues of large hydro projects in Nepal to be
developed for export to India is complicated by the asymmetrical economic and
political relations between the two countries. While most of the technical
and engineering aspects of the KMP scheme have been satisfactorily covered
under the feasibility study, the institutional and financial aspects as well
as the macroeconomic impact on Nepal have yet to be addressed. These
important issues, which should have been part of the feasibility study, are
the subject of a UNDP-financed Bank-executed Integration Study which may
involve GOI's direct participation and is expected to commence in 1992 or
1993. IDA also plans to carry out sector work on Nepal-India power trade
issues starting in 1993.
8.   Borrower Performance
8.1        At the beginning, the project suffered from protracted delays in
selecting the Study Consultant. Once the Consultant was selected, it took
another six months of negotiations to finalize the contract, which is
excessive. The project also suffered from poor communication with the
Consultant, leading to unresolved contractual and payment matters which
adversely affected the working relationship and forced Consultant staff to
spend time on unproductive activities. The Project Director's replacement in
February 1989 greatly facilitated the resolution of all contractual matters in
dispute and improved the working relationship.
8.2       The handling of relations with India was critical to the project's
success. While the coordinating committee held eight meetings between 1984



-9-
and 1992, this was not enough; and more importantly, the meetings were too
formal, and the two sides did not seem to share a comnon goal for the project.
In binational projects, it would be preferable to agree on a formula for
sharing the benefits before engaging jointly in major studies. Further, Nepal
does not seem to have a clear strategy for marketing its high potential hydro
resources. Learning from past experience, Nepal should be more aggressive in
selling its hydropower and integrating its power system with India.
8.3       The institutional framework adopted for the study gave India the
right to review and criticize without having any significant responsibility.
Nepal had to borrow the funds and satisfy IDA, whereas India could delay
meetings and offer cavalier criticisms at will. The lesson is that in such
circumstances more binding binational arrangements -- possibly in which both
countries borrow and are obligated to IDA -- should be considered.
9.   Proiect Relationships
9.1       HMG/N adopted a contracting philosophy of an Owner/Contractor
relationship rather than a Client/Consultant relationship during contract
negotiations and continued this approach during contract execution. This
atmosphere, combined with HMG/N's policy of attaching personal financial
liability to HMG/N staff, tended to shift all schedule and cost overrun risks
to the Consultant and contributed largely to the delayed and protracted
decision-making process. This is not desirable in contracts where terms of
reference and scope may change during the contract. The project's success,
however, is a result of the catalytic role of the consultant OBI and the
effective working relationship between the Bank and HMG/N and the various
consultants. Another contributing factor was the high professionalism of the
parties involved, particularly on the part of the consultants HPC and OBI.
The Bank failed, however, to maintain the dialogue with India on the KMP
project as it did during the preparation stage. Also, Nepal and India's
"positioning efforts" during coordinating comittee meetings did not
contribute to the resolution of issues at hand.
10. Consulting Services
10.1      The high technical quality of the KMP feasibility study was the
result of the level of effort, expertise and quality control devoted to the
project by the consultants. In addition to the review provided by OBI and the
Bank, HPC appointed an internal panel of experts to review the main critical
design areas. Although the project's technical feasibility cannot be
questioned given the amount of investigations and thorough analysis carried
out under this study, some project features are unprecedented in South Asia.
Perhaps in part for this reason, despite a high level of dedication, HPC did
not succeed in winning the Indian counterparts' agreement on the merits of the
KMP design features.
11. Prolect Documentation and Data
11.1      The Credit Agreement was adequate and appropriate for achieving the
project objectives. Since it was a technical assistance project, there was no
Staff Appraisal Report but the project data base was adequate for the
preparation of the PCR.



PROJECT ORGCANISATION
Karnali (Chisavani) KultipurDose                                                                      Ipper Karnali Hydroelectric
Proiect                                                                                            Project
|  ZEP^    |   |IUDIA |
COWITTEE ON
KARNALI
1. LEGAL ADVISER                   NINISIR  OF                                                                          NEPAL ELECTRICITY
UATER ESOURCES                          I                                                 AUTNoRln
2. FINANCIAL ADVISER                                                Ka rnwf Co-
Ordinatfng Committee
ADVISER CNSULTAIT
PROJECT DIRECTOR                       Overse   B chtel Inc.                           PROJECT MANAGER
LEAD ADVISER
INTERNAL                                                           SlIDY OUNSJLTANT
TECHNICAL COORDINATING   .                                                    Himilayn
AND ADVISORY COIUITTEE                                                   Power Consuttants
|AD141MISTRATION SECTION         FIELD OFFICE             HNICAL SECTION               TECHNICAL SECTION          ADMINISTRFIELD OFFICE
AND TECHNICAL                   AND TECHNICAL
ADMINISTRATION                  ADMINISTRATION
GENERAL                    A    STRATI                                                                                                                                  ri
ADMINISTRATION                              O]>



- E11 -
ANNEX 2
Chisapani Project Summary Statistics
Location
- at Chisapani on the Karnali River in western Nepal 600 km west of Kathmandu, 500 km east of Delhi
Purpose
- hydro power, primarily for export to India, and flow regulation for increased irrigated agriculture and
flood control in both India and Nepal
Hydrology
- drainage area                          - 43 679 km2
- average tlow                           - 1389 m3/s
Reservoir
- full supply level (FSL)                - 415 m, above sea level (asl)
- average tailwater level                - 203 m, asi
- drawdown                               - 60 m
- surface area (at FSL)                  - 339 km2
- live slorage                           - 16.2x109 m3 (37% of average annual runoff)
Dam
- type                                   - gravel till wilh central core
- crest elevation                        - 445 m, asi
- maximum height                         - 270 m
- embankment volume                      - 45x1 Of m3
Power Facilities
- location                               - left bank. underground
- capacity                               - 10 800 MW installed (9000 MW firm)
- units                                     eighteen 600-MW units (500 MW at
minimum operating level of reservoir)
- average energy                         - 20 842 GWh/yr
Reregulating Facilities
- location                               - 8 km downstream from Main dam
- reservoir                              - 100x106 m3 live storage
- dam                                    - 6-km long embankment (maximum height-24 m)
- power plant                            - six 14-MW units
Transmission Facilities
- five 765-kV lines from Chisapani power plant to India, 300 km long
- one 22G-kV line from Reregulating power plant to India, 160 km long
Irrigation
- potential in Nepal                      -     191 000 ha net
- potential in India
Sarda Sahayak                    -    2 OOO 000 ha gross
Saryu                            -    1 200 000 ha gross
rotal                            -    3 200 W0 ha gross
(Project provides supplemental water to existing and committed irrigation developments in India.)
Costs (1988)
- capital cost                            - US  $4.890 million
- economic cost (November2003)            - US  $6,808 million
- equivalent economic unit costs          - US   $630 AW (3.3 tAkWh)
Economic Evaluation (at 10% discount rate)
- gross economic benefits (November 2003) - US $16,780 million
- net economic benefits (November 2003)   - US S 9,972 million
- benefit/cost ratio                      - 2.46



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
KARNALI PREPARATION PROJECT - PHASE I
(Credit 1452-NEP)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Government's contribution to the PCR was prepared by the Karnali
(Chisapani) Multipurpose Project Office under the WinIstry of Water Resouues.
The text below is as received from the Borrower; its contents are not
attributable to IDA. Footnotes 1-6 have been added by IDA to clarify certain
points in the text.
.1  Proiect Identity
Name           Karnali Preparation Project - Phase I
Credit No.     1452 - NEP
Executing
Agency         Ministry of Water Resources, HMG/N
Implementing
Office         Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project, Kathmandu
Sector         Power
2.   Background
2.1       Nepal, a comparatively small nation with a territory of 147,181 kI2
and population of around 20 million has boen highly endowed by nature with
immense water resources. More than 600 small and big rivers flowing through
her territory from north to south and contained in three major river basins -
Mahakali and Karnali, Gandaki and Koshi - generously offer the opportunity to
develop around 83,000 MW of hydroelectric potential along with the vast
possibility of developing irrigation and other uses. Nevertheless, due to
poor economy and the preliminary stage of technological development, only less
than 1% of the potential has been harnessed so far.
2.2       HMG/N has been developing and planning micro hydel plants up to
1,000 - 2,000 kW capacity in the rural hilly areas of the country. Small
scale hydel plants of 50 - 100 MW capacity and medium sized projects of 250 -
1,000 MW capacity are also under planning to meet the internal power demand of
the country. Whereas, mega project developments of multipurpose nature
(power, irrigation, flood control, end navigation) on large rivors like
Mahakali, Karnali, Sapta Gandaki end Sapta Koshi are being envisaged for bulk
power export to India which is the only market. The demand of loectricity in
rural terai areas is being met through the distribution network of national
power system and operated by Nepal Electricity Authority.
2.3       Karnali river at Chisapani offers a unique location for a
multipurpose development of mega scale. The feasibility of the project has
been studied three times, the latest being completed in 1990 by Himalayan
Power Consultants (HPC), a consortium of three Canadian and one American
consultants. The previous two studies were conducted by Nippon Ko-i (NR) of
Japan during 1962 - 1966 and Norconsult of Norway and Electrowatt of
Switzerland during 1976 - 1978. While the first two studies viewed the
project as a power generation project only with an installed capacity of 1,800
and 3,600 MW respectively, the last study by HPC had explored the multipurpose
aspects of the project.



- 13 -
2.4       The feasibility study of Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project
(KMP) was financed by the World Bank under a loan agreement between HMG/N tnd
WB1 under credit number 1452-NEP for an amount of 10.2 million SDR. The
initial contract amount of the.HPC was 7.8 million SDR which was raised to
9,127,603.26 SDR due to time extensions for the consultants and amendment in
the initial scope of work.
2.5       Although the cost of the feasibility study was solely borne by
Nepal, India has been participating in its supervision through policy level
Committee on Karnali (CK) constituted in 1978 and the technical level Karnali
Coordinating Committee (KCC) constituted in 1984 consisting of both Indian and
Nepalese technical and administrative officers.
2.6       A total amount of 10,148,368.30 SDR inclusive of the reimbursed
amount of 93,897.39 US $ for local coverage of costs spent from the loan
amount. A sum of NRa 75,153,344.00 was also contributed by HMG/N as local
component to conduct the study.
2.7       The project also included the prefeasibility study of Upper Karnali
Hydroelectric Project (UKHP) a run-of-river hydroelectric scheme of smaller
size upstream of the Chisapani reservoir for Nepal's internal use.
3.   Oblective
The basic objective of the project was to study in detail all the
technical aspects of KMP and assess its technical viability and economic
attractiveness along with identification of its scale of development and
benefits that could be derived from the implementation of KMP. This would
serve as a basis for Nepal and India to negotiate the possible implementation
of KMP jointly.
4.   Scope of Work
The project consisted of following scope of works:
4.1       Preparation of a detailed feasibility study of the Chisapani
Multipurpose scheme including field investigations, mapping and other
engineering works in the form of a set of technical reports along with
recommendations on the technical viability and economic attractiveness of the
scheme.
4.2       A prefeasibility level study of a medium size run-of-river scheme
upstream of Chisapani - Upper Karnali Hydroelectric Project (UKHP).
4.3       Procurement of necessary equipment, materials and instruments to
carry out investigations and other relevant civil works as needed.
1/ World Bank.



- 14 -
5. Proiect Oraanization
5.1       MWR, HMC/N2 was responsible for the implementation of the project
through the Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project Office working under it.
Participation of India was facilitated in the supervision of the study through
CR taking policy decisions based on reporting of KCC, a committee of technical
staffs appointed by Government of India (GOI) and HMG/N.
5.2       An independent advisory consultant, Overseas Bechtel Inc (OBI)
served as a project advisor to the Karnali (Chisapani) Multipurpose Project
during the execution of the study.
5.3       HPC carried out the detailed feasibility study of KMP under the
direct supervision of the RMP office. HPC also carried out the prefeasibility
study of UKHP under the supervision of NEA.
5.4       Nepalese counterpart engineers were deputed to HPC to work with the
expatriate personnel in different disciplines in order to facilitate transfer
of technology and to coordinate different activities envisaged in the scope of
work.
6.   Proiect Implementation
6.1       The Credit 1452-NEP was made effective on June 21, 1984.  The
decision of HMG/N and GOI through CR to entrust HPC to carry out the detailed
feasibility study of KMP was made in May 1985. The contract agreement with
HPC was signed in May 28, 1986. The study was initially scheduled to be
completed in June 30, 1988. However, the study was completed only in December
1989 and full set of final reports were delivered to KMP office in February
1990. Lack of constructive inter relationshiR between KMP office and HPC
during the first period of execution of the study and lack of promptness in
decision making from the HMG/N and RIP administration caused the delay.
6.2       Agreement for conducting the prefeasibility study of UKHP was
signed between NEA and HPC in May 1986 and the study was also scheduled to be
completed by June 30, 1988. However, the study was completed only in December
1989. It would appear that frustration of the consultants due to non payment
on time for Chisapani study works resulted in lack of sincerity of the
consultant to complete this study on time, although it was administered not by
RMP office but by NEA project manager.
7.   Study Results
7.1       Final conclusions of the feasibility of the Chisapani Project has
shown that an economically attractive multipurpose scheme can be developed at
Chisapani with a 270 m high embankment dam and an underground powerhouse of
10,800 MW capacity. As a peaking station, KMP would generate a total of
20,842 GWh of average energy annually. The project would also provide
2/ Ministry of Water Resources, HMG/N.



- 15 -
irrigation facilities for 192,000 hectares3 of new command area in Nepal and
for additional irrigation development of existing 3.2 million hectares of land
in India besides providing some flood control and marginal navigation
benefits. The project would cost 4.89 billion US $ at 1988 price and generate
a net economic benefit of around 10 billion US $, that could be shared by
Nepal and India. The study also indicated a high benefit-cost ratio of 2.46
for the project.
7.2       The prefeasibility study of UKHP indicated that given to the
topography of the site an economically very attractive run-of-river
hydroelectric scheme with an installed capacity of 240 MW can be developed at
an estimated cost of 365 million US $ including access road (about 65 km) and
more than 200 km of 220 kV transmission line up to main load conters in Nepal.
7.3       In spite of the high quality of the feasibility report, high
standard of methodologies applied, critical and scientific analyses of project
economics, detailed study of relevant technical aspect. of the project, the
Indian side has expressed reservations on the project parameters recommended
by HPC and the methodologies and quantitative evaluation of benefits derivable
from the project. This has questioned the project development and moving into
the detailed engineering and design phase. This is mainly because of India
visualizing KMP from the traditional viewpoint of developing large projects in
India internally and ignoring its international dimensions and undermining the
role of KMP in Indian system in spite of the acute power shortage in the
Indian system, which can be met only by undertaking more costly alternatives,
basically the thermal plants. Further, the Indian side has always maintained
a position of scaling down the project, turning it into more as a hydropower
project (sic) and has always shown their unwillingness to accept the rational
of evaluation and sharing of all logical benefits that may be derived from the
project.
8.   Development Impact
8.1       The project has resulted in developing technical skills of about 30
to 40 Nepalese engineers. Many Nepalese local consultants were bonefitted in
acquiring technical knowledge from the consultant. High level decision makers
in HMG/N have acquired pretty good knowledge of diversities, complexities and
magnitude of administrative and technical works to be handled while
undertaking a feasibility study of a mega project.
8.2       Although Nepal was not fully successful in securing the commitment
of India for immediate undertaking of the project the interaction of high
level HMG/N officials with the concerned Indian counterparts have been very
useful for Nepal to understand and evaluate India's attitude towards
development of this binational mega scheme. This can be well applied in
negotiating other mega projects with India. The content of the feasibility
reports, specifically the statistical information and methodologies applied in
the feasibility study will serve as a very useful basis for planning power
development in Nepal for quite a foreseeable future. Project advisory
3/ Feasibility study gives a figure of 191,000 hectares.



-16 -
consultant OBI has played appreciable role in guiding the KMP office for the
successful completion of the project.
9.   Lessons Learned and Recommendations
9.1       Contract negotiations between HMG/N and HPC took unusually long
period of around six months which delayed the commencement of the feasibility
study.
9.2       It has been realized that a very healthy working inter relationship
between the client and the consultant must be maintained for smooth and timely
completion of the study.
9.3       The WB should have played more effective role and paid more atten-
tion towards resolving the difference of opinion between the consultant plus
the Nepalese side and the Indian side. In this regard a steering committee
consisting of representative of the Bank, EHG/N, GOI and the consultant to
review the progress of the study and quick resolution of the differences of
opinions might have been useful. The Bank should consider this for future
involvement of the Bank in moving the Karnali Project towards Phase II.
9.4       The interaction between the KMP office and concerned Indian
counterparts was poor due to several reasons. Exchange of views with the
Indian officials could be made only in the CK and KCC meetings which used to
take place after long gaps. This has contributed to non resolutions of
several issues.
9.5       HPC expatriates were not always accommodative towards India's
request for making some complimentary studies and failed to win the goodwill
of the Indian officials.
9.6       In future studies or Phase II works of KMP, Indian involvement both
technically and financially and joint day to day administration of the
activities might be fruitful. However, their commitment for openness,
exposure of information, allowances for reasonable compromise on important
issues and timely response should be secured.
9.7       In the KMP administration, only technical personnel as counterparts
have been provided with hardship allowances. Accounts and administrative
officials were being provided only their regular salaries. This has reduced
the internal efficiencies of the project management. Provisions for such
allowances should be considered.
9.8       The prefeasibility study of the Upper Karnali Hydroelectric Project
was completed in December 1989. A 240 MW run-of-river hydroelectric scheme
was found very attractive. This project has a special significance, because
of (i) no hydroelectric scheme has been developed so far in the Far Western
Region of Nepal, (ii) it can supply construction power for Chisapani and
Pancheswar projects, and (iii) it can significantly help socio-economic
promotion of the area. A Terms of Reference (TOR) on the feasibility study of
UKHP was developed by KMP in 1990 and had been approved by the Bank. It



- 17 -
indicated a total requirement of 2.2 million US $ (at 1990 price level) to
complete it.
9.9       In all the missions between June 1990 and June 1991 of the WB to
Nepal, the Bank had been consistently recommending and encouraging HMG/N to
request for financing the feasibility study of this project. HMG/N made a
request to the Bank in September 1990, but the Bank has not yet responded to
it. HMG/N is very eagerly awaiting for the Bank's positive response to it.4
10. Other Matters
10.1      A summary of statistical information on credit disbursements,
project costs and financing etc. are given in Part III of the PCR. These
information were found to be adequate.
10.2      In item number 7 "Status of Covenants" of the Part III of the PCR,
there is a remark on delay of audit reports. The delivery of audit reports
were delayed due to auditing procedures of HMG/N in spite of prompt actions
taken by the Project to complete them on time.
10.3      The Bank's views and analysis contained in Part I of the PCR are
agreeable to KMP. Moreover, the relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower right from the beginning of the study has been always encouraging and
productive.
11. Bridzina Studies
11.1      A program of studies including data collection/collation around the
dam site consisting of hydrometric, sedimentation and seismic measurements as
well as environmental impact studies is currently undergoing with the
assistance of Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and is being
conducted by HPC. However, another important study related to the
resettlement of population around the Chisapani reservoir area still needs to
be undertaken for a better assessment of socio-economic impacts of the
project. These studies being taken up as a bridging activities between Phase
I - Feasibility Study of and Phase II - Detailed Engineering and Design work.
of the project are very important for accurate establishment of design
parameters of the project as well as for the more detailed analysis of socio-
economic and environmental impacts both in Nepal and India. Continuation of
these studies is felt essential and HMG/N is looking for arrangement of
additional financing to complete these studies from the donor agencies. In
addition, study on irrigation development in Karnali command area in Nepal and
some complimentary studies related to the resolution of the feasibility study
issues specifically those raised by the Indian side also need to be completed.
The cost requirement for these studies under a package titled "Bridging
Studies - Phase 2" will be from 1.5 M US $ with irrigation development and 3.5
4/  The Bank advised HMG/N in early 1992 of its willingness to finance the
feasibility study under the ongoing Third Technical Assistance (Pancheawar)
Project (Cr. 1902-NEP) and/or the recently approved Power Sector Efficiency
Project (Cr. 2347-NEP).



- 18 -
M US $ inclusive of irrigation development in Karnali command area of 192,000
hectares (sic).
12. Integration Studies
12.1      The scope of detailed feasibility study of KMP did not include
analysis of the issues related to Financial, Institutional/Contractual
arrangements for the implementation and operation of the project as well as
issues related to the role of KMP in Indian and Nepalese power systems,
assessment of benefits and macro economic impact of the project in the context
of Nepal's economy. These studies called "Integration Studies" are being
financed by UNDP with WB acting as executing agency and KMP office
coordinating as implementing agency.5
12.2      Better part of these studies can be conducted solely by Nepal
whereas analysis of KMP in the Indian power system along with assessment of
power, irrigation and flood control benefits requires Indian participation for
obtaining more accurate results of the analysis for better appreciation of
financial, institutional/contractual arrangements both by Nepal and India.
HMG/N intends to contact GOI in this regard. It is realized that both WB and
UNDP could play a role of "third good will party" to coordinate the matter
between HMG/N and GOI.6
13. Concluding Remarks
13.1      KMP, if materialized, will be the largest hydro development in the
Indian subcontinent and one of the ten largest projects in the world. By
virtue of its location in Nepal and market availability of generated energy in
India (sic), it is a binational project between Nepal and India. It will
require a huge investment of around 6 billion US $ by the time of its
completion. A scheme of such a nature and magnitude naturally requires
resolution of cost and benefit sharing issues between Nepal and India and also
a strong and effective organization to manage its construction along with
arrangement of finances and commercial arrangements etc. As such it is
advised that all concerned parties continue their best efforts to keep the
project moving on.
5/ Issues related to the role of KMP in the Indian and Nepalese power systems
and assessment of benefits were addressed in the feasibility study of the KHP.
However, access to the data needed for power planning and irrigation develop-
ments in India was limited in the feasibility study (paras. 4.4 and 5.6 in
Part I), and it is intended to strengthen these aspects of the analysis in the
Integration Study.
6/ Based on the "lessons learned" under the present project vis-a-vis the
importance of India's direct participation in studies of binational projects
such as the KMP (para. 8.3 in Part I), it was agreed in March 1992 that, as a
first step, HMG/N would approach GOI about its possible participation in all
aspects of the Integration Study.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
KARNALI PREPARATION PROJECT - PHASE I
(Credit 1452-NEP)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Credits
Credit             Purpose              Year of      Status          Comments
No.                                   Approval
Cr. 600-NEP         Help expand             1976     Completed         21 month delay
Kulekhani           the hydropower                   in 1982           and 80Z cost
Hydroelectric       generating                                         overrun
Project             capacity
(2 x 30 MW)
Cr. 1478-NEP        Provide generation      1984     Hydroplant        Physical
Harsyangdi          capacity up to                   commissioned      implementation
Hydroelectric       1993                             in February       successful
Power Project                                        1990              NEKA financial
(3 x 23 MW)                                                            performance
unsatisfactory
Cr. 1902-NEP        Carry out field         1988     Under
Third Technical     investigation for                 implementation
Assistance          the Pancheswar
(Panch-swar)        Multipurpose Project
Project             Finance studies and
TA in the power
sector
Cr. 2347-NEP        Increase NEA's          1992      Not yet signed/
Powor Sector        effective supply                  effective
Efficiency          capacity
Project             Strengthen NEA's
financial/
institutional
performance
Enhance energy
conservation measures



- 20 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                       Date           Date           Data
Planned       Revisod         Actual
Identification (Executive         -             -            03/03/82
Project Suinary)
Preparation Hission               -             -               06/82
Appraisal Hission                 -             -   02/22 - 03/05/83
Crodit Negotiations (Completed)  -              -            05/30/83
Board Approval                    -             -            03/20/84
Credit Signature                  -             -            03/22/84
Credit Effectiveness            07/84           _            06/21/84
Credit Closing                12/31/88       12/31/89         12/31/90
Credit Completion             06/30/88       06/30/89        06/30/90



- 21 -
3. Credit Disbursements (US$ Million)
Estimated       Actual      Actual as a
IDA Fiscal Year   Cumulative     Cumulative    % of Estimate
June 30, 1985       4.5           0.14           3%
June 30, 1986       9.5           2.15          23%
June 30, 1987      10.5           3.41          32%
June 30, 1988      11.0           6.98          63%
June 30, 1989      11.0           9.77          89%
June30, 1990       11.0          12.66          115%
Final disbursement was made on November 13, 1990, bringing the total
disbursement to SDR 10,148,368.30. SDR 44,452.16 was undisbursed as
of December 31, 1990 and was cancelled as of that date. SDR 7,179.54
undisbursed in the Special Account was refunded to the Credit account as
of August 8,1991 and was cancelled as of that date.
The increase in the amount of the Credit expressed in US$ equivalent Is due
to appreciation of the SDR relative to the USS.
4. Proiect ImDlementation
N.A.



-22-
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(USS Million)
Appraisal Estimate                Actua
Foreign                      Foreign
Local Exchange             Local  Exchange
Expenditure Categoro        Costs   Costs   Total       Costs    Cot         TotlI
1.   Consulting Services
(a) For the Studies           1.2     5.6    6.8        2.17     10.99       13.16
(b) HMG/N Advisors            0.1     0.6    0.7        0.07      1.12        1.19
2.   Equipment and Tools            0.3     0.5    0.8         0.07      0.20        0.27
3.   Miscellaneous Constructlon     0.8     2.3    3.1         0.09      0.11        0.20
4.   Operation Expenses
Project Office                0.4     0.1    0.5        0.02 *   0.08         0.10
5.   Contingencies                  0.4      1.7    2.1
6.   Taxes and Duties               0.6             0.6
Total Cost:                    3.8    10.8   14.6         2.42     12.50       14.92
Includes local taxes.
Additional drilling equipment costing the equivalent of about US$660,000
was provided by CIDA (Canada) in the form of a grant.
B. Financina Plan
(USS Million)
Planned                       Actua
Sources                   IDA   HMG/N   Total         IDA      HMG/N       ioail
Foreign                   10.8             10.8        12.5                  12.5
Local                     0.2     3.6       3.8         0.1       2.3         2.4
Total:                    11.0    3.6      14.6        12.6       2.3        14.9
* Additional drilling equipment costing the equivalent of about US$660,000
was provided by CIDA (Canada) In the form of a grant.



- 23 -
6. Prolect Results
A. Direct Benefits : N.A.
B.  Economic Impact  : N.A.
C.  Financial Impact : N.A.
D.  Studies                      : The project was a technical as-istance project
consisting of a feasibility study and a
prefeasibility study as discussed in the text
of the PCR.
7.   Status of Covenants
Brief Description                  Section               Conformity                    Remarks
1.     The Borrower to furnish             DCA 4.01(ii)                  No           Although the period was increased
within nine months after                                                       to 12 months (amendment of March 8,
the end of each fiscal                                                         1989), the audit r port of the
year a certified audit                                                         project accounts certified by the
report of the project                                                         AuditorGCeneral was always received
accounts.                                                                      beyond the deadline.  The audit
incLuded the verification of the
use of funds from the Special
Accouint.
8.   Use of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUTS*
Stage of Proiect Cycle                                  Actual                       CQmmts
Through Appraisal                                       42.8 sw                      Includes 5.7 LOP
Appraisal through Board                                   9.2 sw                     IncLudes 6.1 LOP
Supervision                                              75.5 Sw                     Includes 2.2 PAD
Project CompLetion Report                                 2.4 sw
TOTAL :                                    129.9 sw
* Local higher level staff and local consultants discounted at 4:1 ratio.



- 24 -
6. MISSIONS
Stags of         Month/       Number of    Days in       SpecializatIon       Psrfoc*         Type of
Proeif  yct          Yea nr       Persons       Field        Reresented                          Probles
(of which
is KarnaLi)ZY
Through Aoraisat
Preparation             06/82           1                     Engineer
Appraisal               02/83           1           13        Engineer
Sucervision
Supervision 1           06/84           1            4        Engineer                    1
Supervision 2           03/85           1            4        Engineer                    2
Supervision 3           06/86           3           14        Engineer (2)                1       Financial
(4)       Financial Analyst
Supervision 4           10/86           1            6        Engineer                    2
Supervision 5           03/87           2             5       Engineer                    2
Financial Analyst
Supervision 6           01/88           4            20       Power Engineer (2)          2
(5)       Financial Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 7           06/88           2            14       Power Engineer              2        Financial
(6)       Financial Analyst
Supervision 8           10/88           6            12       Power Engineer (4)          2
(8)       Financial Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 9           05/89           5            15       Power Engineer (3)          2
(5)       Financial Analyst
Economist
Supervision 10          11/89           6            11       Power Engineer (3)          2
Financial Analyst
Economist
Consultant
Supervision 11          05/90           3             8       Power Engineer (2)          2
(4)       Financial Analyst
Supervision 12          11/90           3            13       Power Engineer              2        Issue of reports delayed
(3)       Financial Analyst
Economist
/  1 - Problem  free or minor problems; 2 -Moderate problems; 3 - Major problem.
2 Conbined mission with other projects.



