RESTRICTED
FillE    CR   Y                 Report No.P -778
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE YUGOSLAV INVESTMENT BANK
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
February 5, 1970



REPORT AND RECO1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE YUGOSLAV INVESTIENT BANK
FOR A TELECONiUNICATIONS FROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $40 million to the
Jugoslovenska Investiciona Banka (Yugoslav Investment Bank) to assist in
financing the foreign exchange cost of a program of expanding the long-
distance and international telecommunications systems in Yugoslavia over
a five-year period (1970-1974) which is a part of the Seven-Year Development
Program (1969-1975) of the Yugoslav Post, Telegraph and Telephone (PTT)
services.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The Bank has made fourteen loans to Yugoslavia for a total amount of
$395.7 million, includingthe $18.5 million loan for Industrial Projects -
1970, which was approved by the Executive Directors and signed in January.
The proposed loan would be the first for telecommunications in Yugoslavia
and would help expand and modernize the telecommunications sector, which has
not kept pace with the development of other sectors of the economy.
3.     Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington from
January 12 to 23. The Yugoslav delegation consisted of representatives of
the Yugoslav Inves-tment Bank (YIB), headed by Mr. Miljkovic (General
Manager), and of the Community of Yugoslav Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones
(CYPTT} led by Mr. Arsic (Assistant General Manager). The Federal Government
was represented by Mr. Stojiljkovic, Economic Counselor of the Yugoslav
Embassy in Washington.
4.     Yugoslavia has received no IDA credits.  Ihe following is a summary
statement of Bank loans to Yugoslavia as of December 31, 1969.
Loan                                              '1nount     Undisbursed
Number      Year      Borrower      Purpose           (US $ million)
Loans fully disbursed                 l9o.5
395-Yu      1964      YIB           Railways       70.0          22.9
485-YU      1967      YIB           Highways       10.0           2.5
504-YU      1967      YIB           Industry       10.5           3.6
531-YU      1968      YIB           Railways       50.0          41.3
554-YU      1968      YIB           Industry       16.0          13.5
608-YU      1969      SFR of        Highways       30.0          30.0
Yugoslavia
Total (less cancellations)                 377.0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                        46.9
Total now outstanding                      330.1
Amount sold                  5.3
of which has been repaid   2.8             2.5
Total now held by the Bank                 327.6
Total undisbursed                                        113.8



- 2 -
Including the $18.5 million loan for Industrial Projects - 1970 (65L-YU)
signed in January, but not yet effective, the total amount held by the Bank
would become $3M6.1 million.
5.    Eaecution of most of the projects has been satisfactory, except
for the Second Railway Project (Loan 395-YU of December 1964) which has run
into considerable difficulties.  Reference is made to my Report and Recommenda-
tion on the loan for Industrial Projects (No. P-772, dated January 15, 1970)
which described the action to be taken by the Yugoslav authorities before
the Bank could consider the request to postpone the Closing Date by three
years. The Closing Date of Loan 504-YU (Industrial Projects) was recently
postponed by two years to January 31, 1972, to allow completion of one of
the seven projects under this Loan, which was delayed by difficulties in
reaching agreement with the foreign partner involved and by necessary tech-
nical changes.
6.     Yugoslz. via became a mamber of IFC in July 1968.  IFC has been
instrumental in the establishment of the International Investment Corporation
for Yugoslavia in which it has taken a $2 million equity participation. In
addition IFC vill make a venture capital investment through FIAT of $8 million
in the Zavodi Crvena Zastava-FIAT joint venture, an automobile manufacturer,
in conjunction with the recent Bank loan for industrial projects.
7.   It is expected that in the current fiscal year a further highway project
will be ready for consideration by the DEecutive Directors.  In addition,
projects in tourism, transport, industry and a multipurpose water supply
project are under preparation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.     Borrower:         Yugoslav Investment Bank
Guarantor:        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:    Seventeen enterprises of the Yugoslav PTT
system
Amount:           Various currencies equivalent to US $40 million
Purpose:          To assist in financing the expansion of the main
long-distance transit and international tele-
communications systems in Yugoslavia
Amortization:     In 20 years, including a 5½ year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments beginning
November 15, 1975 and ending November 15, 1990
Interest Rate:    7 percent per annum
Commitment
Charge-           3/4 of 1 percent per annum



- 3 -
Relending Terms:  The proceeds of the Loan will be relent
by the Borrower to the Beneficiaries on
the same repayment terms and grace periods
as the Bank's Loan, and at an interest rate
of 71½ percent.
Estimated
Mncremental
Rate of Return:   27 percent
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.     A report entitled "Appraisal of the Telecommunications Project
(l70-1974)" PU-26a, is attached.
10.    Yugoslavia has the second lowest density of telephones in Europe.
The development of telecommunications facilities has not kept pace with
the rapid growth in other sectors of the economy, particularly industry
and tourism.  The present capacity of the telecommunications system is
inadequate, and requests for new connectiens are almost 50 percent higher
than the installed telephone exchange lines. To meet the present and
expected demand for telecommunications services and to modernize the
existing systems, the Community of Yugoslav Posts, Telegraphs and
Telephones (CYPTT) has drawn up a well-designed Seven-Year Development
Program (1969-1975), which will require a total investment of about
$470 million.
ll.    Telecommunications services in Yugoslavia are provided by forty-one
autonomous regional PTT enterprises. The extent of actual autonomy of these
enterprises has varied over the years and there has recently been a trend
towards increasing coordination within the sector. Each PTT enterprise
must now belong to the CYPTT, which ensures coordination in the operation
and development of the postal and telecolmmunications services. The PTT
enterprises have considerable autonomy in their day-to-day operations but
must submit their individual expansion programs to the Assembly of the
CYPTT for approval and must execute and finance them once adopted. The
CYPTT also performs certain functions and tasks of common interest, such as
standardization, inspection and quality control of PTT services, traffic
and installations, designing complex systems of the long-distance network
and supervising their construction, and the like.  Under the Seven-Year
Program the Secretariat of the CYPTT has been empowered by the Assembly
to plan, coordinate and supervise the preparation and execution of the
long-distance and international networks which constitute the Bank-
financed project. Although the institutional structure of the Yugoslav
PTT system is complex, it has worked properly and efficiently.
12.    While there w.ould have been advantages in CY-ITT bbing the Borrower,
this course was not practicable sinde CYPTT does not own any assets
and does not have funds beyond the contributions from its members required
for the operation of its secretariat. The proposed Bank loan, at the
proposal of CYPTT, would be channeled through the YIB, which would in turn
conclude subsidiary loan agreements, in a form satisfactory to the Bank,
with the 17 beneficiary enterprises which are those with the main trunk



-4 -
exchanges through which long-distance and international traffic will be
routed. These 17 PTT enterprises account for about 80 percent of the
tecphone subscribers and traffic. The undertakiags regarding the execu-
tion of the project, operation and maintenance of the facilities, financial
performance ard tariffs would be incorporated in a Project Agreement between
the Bank and CYPTT. This agreement would be ratified by the Assembly of
CYPTT and thus be binding on the CYPTT itself and all PTT enterprises, i.e.
not only those benefiting from the loan. This would ensure adequate standards
of operation and financial performance throughout the entire PTT system.
There are a number of provisions in the loan documents covering these standards,
such as the debt limitation, the separaticn. of financial statements for tele-
commnmications and postal operations, and the minimum rate of return.   The
rationale for the minimnuim return, i.e. 18 percent during the period of the
Sever-Year Development Program (1969-1975) is given in detail in paras. 6.06
and 6.07 and Annex 20 of the Appraisal Report.
13.    The project proposed for Bank financing would consist of the systems
and facilities for the main transit and international net-works, which are a
part of the Seven-Year Development Program. The total cost of the project
amounts to $95 million, including $65 million in foreign exchange. The
Bank loan would finance $40 million of the foreign exchange cost, and most
of the balance would be covered by suppliers' credits. Local expenditures
would be financed from self-generated funds and the proceeds of a credit
from the Postal Savings Bank.  The project is technically well ccnceived
and economically sound.  Together with the other works of the Seven--Year
Development Program, which would mainly be financed from self-generated
fuunds, the project would meet the country's requirements for telecommunica-
tionrs services in the seven-year period.
14.    All purchases under the Bank loan would be subject to international
competitive bidding. Yugoslav manufacturers would participate in the bidding
TZith a margin of prefe.ence in bid comparisons of 15 percent or the actual
rate of cmu;toms duties, whichever is lower.  Hovever, although Yugoslav
marufacturers have been able to compete successfully both at home and abroad
for many items of telecommunications equipment, it is unlikely that they will
be in a position ta bid successfully for the technically sophisticated items
included in the prDject, with the possible exception of a coaxial cable.
The Bank would fiuance the entire amoult of contracts won by foreign suppliers
and the foreign eichange component of any contract won by a local bidder.
15.    The Yugosaav Investment Bank, the Borrower, is the largest investment
bank in Yugoslavia and hasbeen the conduit for most Bank loans. For a
description of YEB reference is made to my Report and Recommendation on the
1M-.4f-or.Industrial Projects (P-772). The 17 PTT enterprises which are the
beneficiaries of the proposed Loan, as well as the other PTT enterprises,
have all shown a profit over the last three years. Some losses in the
postal sector were well covered by the high earnings of telecommunications
operations. It is expected that all PTT enterprises will continue their
good financial performance.



PART IV - L_GAL N3ST2U4MENT3 A1JD AUTHORITY
16.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Rank and the Yugoslav
Investment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement beuteen the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the draft Project Agree-
ment between the Bank and the Community of Yugoslav Posts, Telegraphs
and Telephones, the Report of the Codmittee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
Resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
17.    The draft Loan Agreement and draft Guarantee Agreement follow
substantially the pattern of the agreements for previous Bank loans
to the Yugoslav Investment Barn.  The draft Project Agreement contains
provisions usual to agreements for telecommunications projects. The
following clauses of the Project Agreement are of special interest:
a)   Section 2.08 requires each PTT Enterprise to introduce,
not later than January 1, 1971, separate accounts for
its postal and telecommunications services. The annual
financial statements of the various PTT Enterprises will
be consolidated by the CYPTT and the consolidated state-
ments will be furnished to the Bank.
b)   Section 2.09 provides that the PIT Enterprises shall not
use more than 100 million Dinars annually from the assets
or revenues of telecommunications operations to subsidize
postal operations.
c)   Sect in 2.10 provides for the establishment of tariffs
and fees for telecozmnunication services producing an an-
nual rate of return for each PTT Enterprise of between
10 percent and 25 percent and an overall annual rate of
return for all PTT Enterprises of not less than 18 per-
cent for the years 1970-1975 and not less than 15 percent
thereafter.
PART V - THE EC0ONO1f
18.    An economic memorandum was circulated to the Executive Directors
on May 15., 1969 with nW Report and Recomendation on a loan for 'a ligifway Project
(P-702). Later developments were discussed in paragraphs 21-27 of the
Report and Recommendation dated January 15, 1970, t'n a Loan to the
Yugoslav Investment Bank for Industrial Projects (P?4772). The report
of the mission, which visited Yugos±a±via in October/INovember 1969 to
review the current position and prospects of the econono', will be dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors shortly.



-6-
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREWNT
19.,   I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles cf Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMMMDATIOT
20.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By S. R. Cope
Attac'bnents
W4ashington, D.C.
February 5, 1970



