RESTRICTED
Report No. PU-Z6a
This report was prepared for use within the bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCrION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(1970-1974)
YUGOSLAVIA
February 2, 1970
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURCY  U S
US$L      '     Dinars (Din) 12.5
US$1 million = Din 12,500,000
Din 1         =  s$0.08
Din 1 million = US$80,000
FBCAL YEUR
of the Lgoslav PTT ater-prises
January 1 to December 31
WIASU1RS EQUIVAINT
i kilometer (km) * 0.621 statute mile



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL CF THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(1970-197h)
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUkiARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                          i-i
1.  INTRODUCTION                                                      1
2.  TELECOIMMNICATIONS SECTOR                                         2
A. The Economic Environment                                       2
B.  Organization, Management and Operations of
Telecommunications Services                                3
C.  Lending Arrangements                                          4
D. Existing Telecommunicatiotns Facilities                        4
E.  Financial Aspects                                             6
Accounting                                                 6
Audit                                                      7
Tariffs and Financial Arrangements among PTEs              7
Past Earnings                                              9
Financial Position                                        10
3.  THE SEVEN-YEAR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (1969-1975)                   12
Description of the Telecommunications Development Program        12
Local Telephone Systems                                       12
Regional Interurban System of the PT'                         12
Main Long Distance and International Systems                  13
Domestic Telegraph and Telex                                  13
Buildings, Other Development and Works                        13
Cost of Program                                                  13
4. THE PROJECT                                                       15
Description and Cbjectives of the Project                        15
Cost Estimates                                                   16
Construction Schedule and Participants in the Project            18
Procurement and Disbursement                                     18
This Appraisal Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Yugoslavia which was made in July 1969 and was composed of Messrs. M. V.
Scoffier and H. B. Neier of the Bank. Annexes 22 through 26 were prepared
with the cooperation of Mr. 1L Schloss.



Table of Contents (ContLdl
5.  JtL7TIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Demand for Telecomunications Services                              20
Economic Benefits and Rate of Return                               20
6.  FUTURE FINANCES                                                    2
Financing Plan                                                     2
Future larningp  'c Financial Position                             2L
Rate Covenant and Debt Limitation Clause
7,  RECOMI¢ENDATIONSAND AGR ,M'WTS                                     2
AliNEXES
11iAS



List of Annexes
1.   Organization chart of the Cormunity of Yugoslav PTT (CYPTT)
2.   The Organization of the PTT Operating Enterprises (PTEs) - Organization
chart of the PTE, Belgrade
3.   Organization chart of the PTT Enterprise, Osijek
4.   Organization chart of the PTT Enterprise, Zagreb
5.   Basic data on Yugoslav Telecommunications Services (Consolidated) as
of 1968 and for the 1969-1975 Development Program
6.   Existing Telecommunications Facilities
7.  Modernization and Development Program of Yugoslav Telecommunications
Services (1969-1975)
8.   Construction Schedule of the Main Trunk and International Systems
(1970-197h)
9.  Estimated Costs of the Seven-Year Development Program (1969-1975)
10.  Pro Forma Financial Statements of Telecommunications Operations of
the Yugoslav PTEs for the Year ending December 31, 1968
11.   Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheets of all PTT Enterprises (1966-1968)
12.   Pro Forma Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement of all PTT Enterprises
(1966-1968)
13.   Pro Forma Consolidated Sources and Uses of Funds Statement of all PTT
Enterprises (1967-1968)
14.   Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet - Postal Operations 1966-1968
15.   Pro Forma Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement - Postal Operations
1966-1968
16.   Pro Fbrma Consolidated Sources and Uses of Funds - Postal Operations
1967-1968
17.   Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet - Teleconmunications Operations
1966-1975
18.   Pro Forma Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement - Telecommunications
Operations 1966-1975
19.   Pro Forma Consolidated Sources and Uses of Funds - Telecommunications
Operations 1967-1975
20.   Pro Forna Consolidated Distribution of Profits from Telecommunications
Operations 1967-1975
21.  Representative Telephone Tariffs
22.   Incremental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Program
23.   Ineremental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Project
24.   Incremental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Titograd-
Titovo Uzice Coaxial Cable
25.   Increimental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Satellite
Ground Station at most likely Demand
26.   Incriental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Satellite
Ground Station at lowest likely Demand
27-   Lcononic Justification - Consideration of the Consumers' Surplus
MAPS
1.   Telephone Exchange Zones, Transit Areas and Code Numbers of the
Yugoslav Telephone Network - IBRD 2695
2.  Long Distance Network - Existing Main Transmission Systems (end 1969>) -
IBRD 2696
3.  Long Distance Network - Proposed Main Transmission Systems under the
1969-1975 Development Program - IBRD 2697R






List of Abbreviations and Acronyms used in the Report
CCIR      - Comit6 Consultatif International des Radiocommunications (Geneva)
CCITT     - Comite Consultatif International Tel6graphique et Telephonique
(Geneva)
CONHSAT    - Communications Satellite Corporation (USA)
CYPTT     - Community of Yugoslav Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones
DEL       - Direct Exchange Line for main telephone subscriber's connection
GENTEX    - Telegraph exchange switching system for use by the general
public telegraph service
HF        - High frequency (radio) - up to 30 MHz
INTELSAT  - International Telecommunications Satellite Consortium
ITT       - International Telephone and Telegraph Corporationl (USA)
ITU       - International Telecommunication Union (Geneva)
LD        - Long distance, generally associated with the words call, circuit,
network, system or traffic
MFlC      - Multi-Frequency Code signalling system for long distance auto-
"Berne"       matic telephone service adopted by most European countries
in Berne in 1959
MHz       - Megahertz - radio frequency unit of one billion cycles per
second
PTE       - Post, Telegraph and Telephone Enterprise irn Yugoslavia
PTT       - Acronym for Post, Telegraph and Telephone services
Pulse     - Basic metering unit used for the taxation oG- the telephone
calls at the subscriberst call meters i1n the telephone ex-
change - Each local call (no time limit') i-; metered one unit
pulse - Long distance calls are metered by series of pulses
registered during conversation with time-interval variance
decreasing with distance - 3ubscribers are billed a unit
charge per pulse
STD       - Subscribers' trunk dialing (subscriberst dialing of LD calls
in interurban telephone service)
TELEX     - Telegraph Exchange service between private teleprinters
UHF       -Ultra High Frequency (radio) - 300-3,000 MHz interval
VF        - Voice frequency (for transmission of telegraph signals)
VHFL      - Very High Frequency (radio) 30-300 iMHz interval
YIP       - Yugoslav lnvestment Bank






YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECC1NUNICATIONS PROJECT
(1970-1974)
SUIMMRY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Yugoslav econonr has been growing very rapidly over the last
two decades, with the industrial sector and tourism in the lead.  The Bank
has contributed with several loans to help the infrastructure, particularly
the transport sector, keep up with the more advanced sectors of the economy.
The proposed Bank loan, the first for telecommunications in Yugoslavia, is
meant to bring telecommunications in line with other infrastructure facil-
ities.
ii.       The Seven-Year Development Program, 1969-1975, for postal, tele-
graph, and telephone services, which calls for a total investment of US$470
million, will add one million main telephone lines to the existing capacity
of 400,000 lines; it will extend and modernize the transmission system and
roughly quadruple the number of long distance circuits, as well as construct
new international communications systems. The primary objectives of the
Program are to cope with the growing demand for essential telecommunications
services and to remedy serious congestion and present service quality prob-
lems in the long distance and international networks.
iii.      The Project for which Bank assistance is requested is estimated -o
cost US$95 million and includes expansion in the main national long distance
network, the automatic international telephone/telegraph exchanges in
Belgrade and Zagreb, and the related international communication systems
with six countries bordering Yugoslavia and for intercontinental traffic;
an important item of these systems is the provision of a ground station for
satellite communications using the INTELSAT network for intercontinental
and long distance continental traffi.c. Equipment costing about US$62 mil-
lion for the installation of the complex and sophisticated systems of the
Project will be procured under international competitive bidding. Most of
this equipment will be imported. Local manufacturers may participate in the
bidding under a 15% margin of preference, but they are very unlikely to win
a significant portion of the procurement because most of the complex equip-
ment required has not yet been produced in Yugoslavia.
iv.       The Bank loan would be the first for telecommunications in Yugo-
slavia.  The proposed loan of uss40 million would finance the foreign ex-
change component of equipment for the facilities to be installed from 1970
through 1974 under the Project. Mlost of the Bank financing would be for
imports, wvith the possible exception of a few small items, such as a coaxial
cable costing less than US$l million equivalent, or some component units which
might be locally manufactured or assembled and for which Bank financing
would be limited to the identifiable foreign cost content. The balance of
the foreign component, amourting to about US$22 million, would be financed
by suppliers' credits after international competitive bidding.



- il -
v.        The ProJ ~ct is well just--Z-ed by tlie high derand and the financial
and .cononi3c rate. of return.  The Pr ojet: incre-rental ra1;e of return
calculated with present t;ariffs is ?71,4 anr; tne full economic rate of ret'rn
would be sEiYbtaA,Iiallly higher.  The louest priority item in the Project has
in incremertal rate of return of ov',er 15C .  'hre facilitiec provided wfill Cbe
uoed mainlly for business and adlmir..stratitc -,urpose-, which will ncrii.i
CSaic economic functiorns so-ur  as the  <Jrouct--cln of goods and the rendering
of services to be perforMed more efficientlr.
vi.       In Yugoslavia, postal and telecommuricationr services are performed
by hil independent Post, Teleiraph and Telephe.ne Operating J.nterprises (FTECs)
whose functions are coordinated by the Corrunity of Yugoslav PTTs (CYPTT);
each PTE has to be a naemaer ef this association.  Such an organization of
the telecominunications sector and of its operations is unique inasmnuch as
primary responsibilities repose in the indep-ndent PTEs ard questions of
common interest are handled by the CYPTT  in which each enterprise is
represented in proportion to the nuxmber of its personnel. b3eaknesses of
this system, such as the proliferation cf' enterprises ofter introduction
of the decentralizationl policy in 1961, iave been remedied; others likr
the variety of tariff systems and inadequate coordinati-on have been or
are being corrected; the prevailing 2fficiency indicates the virbility
of this form of organization.
vii.      The Bank's Loan Agreement will be with the Yugoslav Investment
Bank, which in turn would make subsidiary agreements with the 17 PTEs which
would buy and install the equipment financed lmider the Project. These PTEs
account for about 80L of the telephone subscribers and traffic and operate
the main trunk and international systems; they will be the ultimate
beneficiaries under the loan.  The CYPTT will be executing and supervising
agent for the Project, but each PTE would cortribute to construction and
be primarily responsible for its own financial obligations.  A Project
Agreement between the Bank and the CYPTT will contain conditions concerning
the execution of the Project and the future operation of all telecommunica-
tions facilities by all the PTEs.  This agreement will have to be ratified
by the Assembly of- the CYPTT.
viii.     All PTEs work profitably, despite losses in the postal services.
For the past two years, the consolidated rate of return for postal and tele-
communications services of all PTEs has been 15% and 20%. The future
financial position and earning performance of all PTEs are satisfactory at
present tariffs. Internally generated cash will finance more than three-
quarters of the total requirements under the Seven-Year Program, l969-1975.
However, a change in the tariff structure would be required under the pro-
posed loan in order to avoid traffic distortions by introducing uniform
long distance rates, and to allow for better internal allocation of resources
by discontinuing the indirect subsidy of residential subscribers.
ix.       A Bank loan of US$40 million is recommended for a term of 20
years including a grace period of five years.



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL CF TIU, TELECOIMICATIONS EXANSION PR0J7Fr
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed loan of US$4o million, the first for telecommunica-
tions in Yugoslavia, would help finance the Seven-Year Development Program
(1969-1975) of the Yugoslav Post, Telegraph and Telephone services. The
loan would cover parb of the foreign exchange cost of the Project for the
long distance and international telecommunications systems to be completed
over a five-year period (1970-1974).
1.02      The Program includes capacities for one million new telephone
lines and associated acilities for interurban domestic and international
traffic, at an estimated cost of US$470 million equivalent.  Of this, the
cost of the Project the Bank has been asked to help finance would total
US$95 million equivalent and include up to US$62 million to cover the
foreign exchange cost of equipment that would be purchased through inter-
national competitive bidding. The proposed loan of US$4s0 million would
finance part of these foreign exchange requirements; the rest would be
financed by suppliers. Local costs would be financed frcm own earnings
and the proceeds of a credit from the Postal Sa-vings Bank.
1.03      There are 41 Post, Telegraph and Telephone Enterprises (PTEs) in
Yugoslavia, and, of these, 17 operate the main trunk system for which Bank
financing is proposed.  The 17 PTEs account for about 80% of the telephone
subscribers and traffic.  All PT'Es are associated within the Comunity of
Yugoslav Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones (CYPTT) which coordinates develop-
ment and operations. CYPTT has been entrusted by them to design and super-
vise construction of the main trunk and international systems of the Project
under the Program.
L.0o4     A loan agreement would be signed between the Bank and the Yugoslav
Investment Bank (YIB) which has handled most recent Bank loans to Yugoslavia,
and the YIB would, in turn, conclude relending contracts with the 17 PiEs
which would be submitted for Bank approval.  An agreement between the Bank
and the CY??T -4oulld specify the conditions related to execution of the Project
and. future operations of all telecoamunications facilities.
7*G.05    T.e Project was brought to the Bank's attention during the 1968
Annual Meeting. In April 1969, after receipt of a full description of the
telecommrunications expansion program, Mr. H.B. iAleier m-le a pro-appr)rair>1
visit which wsas follotued in JulIy byr .U1 appraioal missiorn %lich irncluded
;ir. 11I.V Scoffier,



-2-
2.  TELErOMNEhICATXONS SECTOR
A. The Economic Environment
2.01      With an area of 257,000 km?-, Yugoslavia is about the size of the
United Kingdom but has only about one-third as many people - 20 million.
Despite considerable movement toward industrial occupations and cities, more
than half the population continue to derive their income from agriculture. A
high rate of savings and investment has permitted the country's gross I1aLterial
Social Product 1/ to grow at an average rate of more than (: p.a. since 19(2.
After the structural changes introduced by the 1965 Economic Reform, this
growth rate somewhat faltered and was 4% in 1968;  a growth rate exceeding
8% is expected for 1,969. The highly industrialized north, the very fertile
agricultural soils in the northeast, the valuiable mineral deposits in the
central and southern regions, the natura] beauty that makes the Dalmatian
Coast a famous tourist attraction, and an industrious people, all provide
the basis for continuing economic growth.
2.02      A major factor in Yugoslavia's successful economic development has
been its pragmatic approach to problem-solving and its flexibility in adapt-
ing to changing needs and circumstances. By 1952, it was decided that self-
management of enterprises would replace the centralized control of the eco-
nomy; but political considerations still affected considerably economic
decision-making in the various enterprises. Since the Economic Reform of
1965, however, market forces gradually have become the main determinant of
investment decisions.
2.03      Communications facilities have not kept pace with the rapid growth
in industry and tourism, nor have they yet adequately bridged the large
distances between the centers of economic activity or helped overcome the
obstacles of Yugoslavia's difficult topography - some two-thirds of the
country is mountainous. In addition to these domestic requirements, Yugo-
slavials geographical position in Europe makes it a natural international
center of communications for both terminal and transit traffic. The develop-
ment of Yugoslav telecommunications has lagged since World Iar II partly
because scarce investment resources have been directed to other purposes.
Surpluses generated from the provision and sale of communications services
were used partly to subsidize the postal services or until 1961 were trans-
ferred to the Treasury for use elsewhere in the economy.
2.04      Postal and telecommunications services are now completely separated
from the government administration and the enterprises in charge are free
to decide on the allocation of surpluses. The Government limits its inter-
vention in postal and telecommunications matters to the inspection of the
quality of the traffic, the approval of new facilities offered for public
use, and examination and approval of proposals for tariff increases.
1/ Gross Material Social Product excludes certain services included in the
concept of GNP, like e.g. public administration, defense, education,
health, welfare, etc., accounting for a difference from the GNP of 12-15%.



-3
B.   Organization, Management and Operations of Telecommunications Services
2.05      Since 1950, autonomous regional PTEs have been the basic providers
of communications services in Yugoslavia. More recently the activities and
functions Of the PTEs have been defined and coordinated in increasing detail
by the Federal Law on the Organization of Yugoslav Posts, Telegraphs and
Telephones. But the sector still more resembles a federation of fairly
independent enterprises than it does a centralized system of interrelated
services with common technologies.
2.06      Coordination among the PTEs is ensured by compulsory membership
in the CYPTT, an association with corporate status. A general organizational
chart of the CYPTT and of its secretariat is attached as Annex 1. The
Assembly of the CYPTT, in which each enterprise is represented in proportion
to the number of its workers, is thus the top policy-making body in the
sector. The Assembly approves the General Plan of technical specification,
operation and maintenance of the systems, the Development Program for the
sector, the measures for their implementation, the general regulations on
the organization and performance of PTT services; it also sets tariffs for
letters and postcards, and the charges in PTT services for international
traffic while domestic telecommunication tariffs are fixed by the PTEs and
approved by the Government. Specifically, the Assembly prescribes systems
and types of equipment to be installed, sets the list of the PTT services
and basic operational and minimum performance and quality standards. The
Secretariat of the CYPTT studies all questions of common interest for the
PTEs related to the responsibilities of the Assembly; it handles, with the
PTEs, the preparation work for taking the decisions by the Assembly and, in
view of checking their effectiveness, supervises development in general, keeps
statistics, makes acceptance tests for installations to be used by the public,
controls quality of materials, and inspects traffic performance. The CYPIT
also represents Yugoslavia in international posts and telecommunications
organizations. While most of the decisions are by a simple majority vote,
a two-thirds majority is required for important decisions with long term
implications such as the Developaent Program or changes in the statutes.
For the implementation of its decisions, the Assembly elects a 15-member
Wanaging Board and nomiinates the Director General of the CQPTT, whose nomin-
ation must be agreed to by the Federal Executive Council of Yugoslavia.
2.0?      The day-to-day executive powers of the CYPTT are vested in the
Director Ge.neral, who was recently reelected after having servec a regular
four-year term  during -which all preparatory work for this Program and its
execution was done. Hfe has an able young Deputy Director, who is in charge
of the Developnent Program. The General Secretariat is well qualified to
develop programs and represeint OYPMT at home and abroad.
2.C8      Within this franiework, the PTEs enjoy considerable autonomry. They
are free to define their expansion program in cooperation with neighboring
en.terprises and the Secretariat of the CYrPT.  Once a program has been
adopted by th±e Assembly of the GMYPT, however, each enterprise is obliged
to  execute and 2inance it.  In thle past, the P'TLs often have chos.en to
delegate to the Community tasks of common interest like the design of long-
distance network, the planninlg and tendering of complex systems and
special installations.



2.09      The GYPTT's present membership includes 41 PrEs. Following the
decision in 1961 to introduce the present decentralized organization, over
60 PrEs came into being; however, the small entities have gradually been
merging into larger ones and it is expected that ultimately there will juJt
be about 17 PrEs, corresponding to the number of main transit exchanges.
2.10      The PTEs' internal organization is described and illustrated in
Annexes 2, 3 and 4. ,.wile each enterprise has its specifieforms of
organization, the basic managiment structure is comrrLon to all enterprises.
The Workers' Council, elected by bhe personnel of the enterprise, is the
top policy body, comparable to the managing board of directors in other
member countries.  A manager serves as main executive officer.  The enter-
prise is subdivided into Working Units which again are headed by a Workers'
Council and a manager.  W-hile the formal organizational structures do not
appear to be ideal, Yugoslav pragmatism and built-in incentives have made
possible efficient telecommLuications operations.
2,11      The PTEs have a well-qualified and balanced staff at all levels
of responsibility.  Professionals are recruited from university graduates
in engineering and economics. There are three educational and training
centers, located in Belgrade, Zagreb and Ljubljana for specialized tebh-
nicians and vocational students, and a school in Sarajevo and in Novi Sad
with more limited training programs.
C.  Lending Arrangements
2.12      Only 17 of the 41 PTEs will participate in the proposed Bank loan,
i.e. those in charge of the main trurn exchanges and related £acilities for
long distance and international services. They are listed in paragraph 4.06.
To channel funds to these 17 enterprises, the Bank's loan will be made to
the Yugoslav Investment Bank which, in turn, will conclude subsidiary agree-
ments with the PTEs. A draft subsidiary agreement has been prepared and
discussed during negotiations and the conclusion of such satisfactory subsid-
iary agreements between the YIB and the 17 concerned PrEs wiill be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. The Yugoslav Government
will guarantee the Bank loan. In addition to the loan agreement with YIB,
the Bank will enter into a Project agreement with the CYPTT, which will act
as executing agency for the Bank Project. The latter agreement, which will
be ratified by its Assembly, will be binding on all the PTEs and the CYPTT.
D.  Existing Telecommunications Facilities
2.13      Public telephone service was first introduced in Belgrade in 1898
and the first automatic exchanges in Yugoslavia went into operation in 1927
in Ljubljana and Novi Sad, During World War II, 80 of all Yugoslav tele-
communications installations were destroyed. They were replaced after 1948
using step-by-step equipment.  By 1960, 250,000 telephones were in service.
However, the present Yugoslav telecommunications system was essentially
developed since 1961 and is thus relatively modern. During this period,
new automatic telephone networks were built and the number of telephone
stations of all kinds increased to s80,000. Telegraph and telex networks



and long distance systems have also been actively developed. Today, about
931o of all telephone subscribers are included in the local automatic service
while 85% have direct access to the automatic interurban telephone system
through subscribers' trunk dialing (STD). Existing facilities were well
planned in relation to the country's needs but with recent growth in demand,
the automatic systems in and between the main cities have become increasing-
ly congested.  Basic data on Yugoslav public telecommunications services
(consolidated) for 1968 are set out in Annex 5. Details of existing
facilities and of their use are given in Annex 6 and I.aps 1 and 2, and the
following is an outline of these facilities.
2.14      Localtel2ept,one serice in the main centers of population is
provided by the use of automatic exchange equipment, predominantly of modern
types. In 1961, subsequent to the reorganization of the Yugoslav PTT, the
decision was taken to have equipment of similar types in all PTEs and to
only use systems based on crossbar switches. Equipment for these systems
is now manufactured in Yugoslavia (see paras. 4.07, 4.10 and Annex 6, para-
graph 4). Manually-operated exchanges still exist in the smaller towns or
rural areas but these represent less than 8H of the total installed capacity
and are being actively converted to automatic.
2.15      By December 1968, there were a total of 2,850 automatic and manual
telephone exchanges with a capacity of 405,s50 direct exchange lines (DEL),
of which 341,500 were in service. The use of local telephone service is
intense resulting in congestion and wear on the installations. The local
distribution systems, largely underground, are of European standards and
types and are generallY good. E'xchange installations and subscribers'
outside plants are, in general, constructed and operated satisfactorily
and are well maintained.
2.16      Long distance (LD) transmission networks use coaxial cables and
microwave links and are organized into a homogeneous system for the inter-
connection of any two subscribers. Telephone exchange zones, transit areas,
code nuabers and existing transnission systems are shown in Maps I and 2.
At the end of 1968, there were 465 trunk exchanges and the LD transmission
network interconnecting them was made of about 9,700 interurban circuits.
About 6,ooo of these circuits were used for automatic LD service and 3,700
were maxiua 1lsr operated. Due to the lack of main trunk routes, STD facilities
are still mostly operated on a point-to-point basis, except between the
major tertiary exchanges of Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljubljana and Sarajevo.  Almost
all LD exchanaes and routes are seriously congested duLring business hours.
2.17      At the end of 1968  aeneral public telegraph and telex subscribers'
services were provided for i      autand 8 manual exchanges common
fE_ERW7=serv.ces and 3,256 telegraph offices were open to the public.  Miost
of these services are equipped with modern teleprinter facilities, equipment
is recent and standards are good; services are well operated and maintained.
Expansion and upgrading of the systems are required mainly due to rapid
growth of demand for telex service which averaged 20? per year in number
of telex station and traffic during 1965.



- 6 -
2.10      Denand for intermtional telecommunications has always been high
i1n Yugoslavia anrd1.acSilities have been developed externsively.  This it due
to the geograph-ical situation of the country and to tbe historical existence
through the BalThans of cornnunication lirks between East,-rn and Western
Europe an.d fron Europe to Greece, the Yiddle East and Asia. International
telecomrunications are provided through two transit centers in Belgrade
and Zagreb, Traffic is routed to and froFi these eenters over the main
transit network and through circuits irn a 3CO-channea- coa;-i.al cable with
Austria toward Western Europe and in microwave links with Bulgaria, Greece
and Rumania.  TLn additicn, :EI radio lin)ks provide telephone, telegraph and
telex circuits with the USSR, the USA and a few other overseas countries.
About 60% of international traffic is semi-automatic both ways, i.e. the
operator is able to dial direct,ly the distart subscriber in European countries
and the USA.  Traffic growth has averaged about 1% over the last three years.
2.19      International telex subscribers' traffic is handled semi-auto-
matically through operators in Belgrade ana Zagreb.  Yearly traffic growth
averaging 20% since 1965 has led to serious congestion in traffic wi-ch all
20 countries directly ccnnected to Yugoslavia.  Due to this. international
'telegraph traffic is so far not auatmatic and the inclusion of Yugoslavia in
the European Gentex network -s planned only for 1972, after most of the
proposed expansion under the Program has been completed.
E.   Financial Aspects
Accounting
2.20      The structure of the Yugoslav accounting system is prescribed
by the Federal Government and is uniform for all commercial enterprises
in the country. Although it has undergone several changes since 1World War
II, scme basic elements remain from the time before decentralization when
the Government controlled all investment funds.  The system is geared to
control all monetary transfers between enterprises. However, although an
impressive amount of data is collected at the working unit and enterprise
level, it is not all consolidated or presented in a form readily usable or
meaningful to top management.
2.21      A financial analysis of this system is furthermore faced with
unusual concepts, since accounts reflect economic approaches differing
from those normally encountered in the Bank's member countries. Since the
personnel of an enterprise are its "owners", their incoes (salaries and
wages) are accounted for under distribution of profits, Payments to
Republics and Municipalities are shown as distribution of profits, while
they should rather be accounted for as operating costs. Accounts and trans-
actions dealing with personnel benefits are mixed with the operational
accounts of the enterprise, again because "owners" and "workers" are
identical. Accounts are not maintained strictly separate for postal and
teleconmunications operations. In the Project Agreement, the PTEs will
undertake to introduce not la-ter than January 1, 1971, separate accounts
for assets, liabilities, revenues and expenditures required to measure the
performance of telecommunications and postal services separately.



- 7 -
2.22      To permit the aralysis of telecommunications operations and
present the accounts in a formn incorporating concepts normally used in
the Bank, the accounts of the Yugoslav PTT have been rearranged and are
shown on a pro formaa basis for each individual enterprise (Annex 10),
consolidated for all PTEs (Annexes 11-13), for postal operations only
(Annexes 14-16), and for telecommunicatiorB operations only (Annexes 17-19).
Notes to the annexes explain the approach and assumptions used for their
preparation.
Audit
2.23      The accounts of each PTE, as well as other enterprises in
Yugoslavia, are checked and certified once a year by the Social Accounting
Services, a department within the National Bank, which is independent from,
Government or Parliament. In addition the accounts of each PTE are examined
in greater detail at irregular intervals of between one and three years.
Since these audits are now done for an enterprise as a whole, the loan
agreement requires that beginning with fiscal year 1971, the audit would
be performed in future on the basis of the divided accounts to be introduced
for postal and telecommunications services, and that audit certificates
covering the telecommunications accounts of all PTEs would be forwarded to
the Bank within jix months after the end of each fiscal year. However,
urnaudited consolidated financial statements will be submitted to the Bank
within four months after close of the fiscal year.
Tariffs and Financial Arrangements among PTEs
2.24      Although authority and procedures for setting telecommunications
tariffs 'hiave clhanged frequently in the last 20 years, the present situation
reflects a consistent development over the past eight years. In 1961, PTEs
were given limited rights to set tariffs for traffic within their own
territories. Since 1965 PTEs have been able to set tariffs for all domestic
traffic and keep revenues from traffic originating in their territory.
However, the right to increase tariffs has always been subject to approval:
of regional price-control commissions up to 1967 and of the Federal Price
Control Commission since then.  Since 1968, PTEs apply for tariff increases
through the CYPTT, which examines the proposals before submitting them to
the Commission.
2.25      The large nlnnber of Pf.s in the early aixties and the lack of
mniformity of criteria applied by the various regional price-control
cmmissions resulted in tariffs which not only vary from enterprise to
-nterprise but also within integrated enterprises, particularly where
prices were frozen by regional commissions. A simmary of representative
L;ariffs is given in Annex 21.
.26       Regional differences in charges for local calls are justifiable
if they reflect differing costs of providing the particular service.  However,
regional differences i'  charges for LD calls are leading to traffic
rK.itortions. Four big enterprises have now a rate of Din 0.20 per pulse
shile all other enterprises charge a rate of Din 0.30.  Since a reduction
of thie pulse rate of Din 0.30 mould endanger the financial position of' some
smaller enterprises a uniform pulse rate should be set not below Din 0.30. 2/
1/ For the definition of the unit pulse, refer to the list of abbreviations
and terms used in the report.



- 8 -
2..27     Another shortcomirng of the p.,esent s%rotem is thc lack of
d'ferentiattion of rates for autcnatui,. 3ibng-cCistance service betw een peak
and low traf'fir periods, particularly 1tuct;ien day and night.  This leads
to a higlh denanad in the niddle of the daJ for atout five hours with the
acccipaxiving c.fnlestion of the trunk exchanges, unnecessary- wear and tlear
of their ais tlalations, and a low utilization of c..pacitZ durinr the off
hours.  A lower evening or night rate would shift part of the drmnarid to
the morning Or evening and generate ad-citional traffic dur.ng the low-cost
hour, -thus providirng a better and more effective utilization of capacitics.
2.28      A coinnon defect of al'l PEEs is +the structure and level of their
telophone rentals.  The present tnrtff structi1re distinguishes three groups
of subscribers:  enter'orises pay a basic monthlyi charge cl Din  0 t-o 100;
state, health and cultural institutionc, Dir 20 to 60; and residential users,
only Din 5 to 15. The morthly rental includes in each canse between 30 to 60
unit pulses o  free rJete.ed t>affic 1.  Since rentals for residential  sub-
scribers barely cover adminizt.;rative costs, business subscribers now subsiCdize
residential telephones.
2.29      The CYPTT is conscious of these daficiencies in this tariff
structure and to rernedy theris has proposed several changes. The acceptance
of the following tariffs and rates by the Feaceral Price Control Conmission
is a condition of effectiveness:
(a)  A unifori pulse rate for metered traffic of not less than
Dia 0.30;
(b) A mQinimun rental of Din 30 per month;
(c) Reduced rates for metered long distance night traffic and
weekend traffic. The optimum- level for income and traffic
will have to be found by practical experience;
(c) Installation fees and charges for connecting new main telephone
subscribers amounting in the aggregate to at least the cost of
the line between the tezriinal distribution poaint of' the local
network, and the telephone set of such subscriber.
This tariff should become effective not later than January 1, 1971.
2,30      Postal services have traditionally shown a loss, but tariff
increases in 1965 and 1968 have improved the situation. A new increase frcm
Din 0.50 to Din 1.0 per ordinary  letter and Din 0.30 to Din 0.50 per post-
card has been proposed by the CYPrT to becone effective in 1970 to make the
postal branch profitable by 1971. In view of the Government anti-inflation
policy, the authorized increases might be less than proposed and the
introduction might be delayed somewhat.
/ For the definition of the unit pulse, refer to the list of abbreviations
and terms used in the report.



- 9 -
2.31      The intimate technical interdepeaidence of telecoriuunications
systems on the one hand, and the autonomous status of the individual PTE
on the other, would normally require sophisticated techniques for the
allocation of investment expenditures, revenues and current expenditures
among participating entities.  The Yugoslav PTEs, however, introduced a
simple rule in 1965 whereby each enterprise can keep revenues for traffic
originating from its own area and has to finance the expansion of facilities
in its .area.  Where this formula proved inadequate, flexible solutions have
been tried. Capital expenditures for jointly used equipment are shared.
A PTE without a transit exchange but with high originating traffic may
contribute to the capital expenditure of the neighboring transit facilities
in proportion to the likely usage. Under the CP1TT s general supervision,
this flexible approach has worked satisfactorily. The present trend to
integrate small enterprises into bigger ones will tend to reduce this
allocation problem.
Past Earnings
2.32      Profit and loss statements for each PTE are attached in Annex 10,
consolidated statements for both services in Annex 12, for postal operations
in Annex 15, and for telecommunications in Annex 18.  In the last three years
all PTEs worked profitably. Losses in the postal services were well com-
pensated for by the high earnings of teleconmunications. As shown in Annex
10, the PTE with the lowest return for telecommunications operations in
1968 showed a rate of 13%, while the most profitable, PTE Dubrovnik, showed
a return of 68%. The lattGer is an exceptional case of a tourist certer
with very high originating traffic and no trunk exchange or circuits to
maintain. The trend noted in paragraph 2.31 oblige such enterprises to
participate in future expansion costs of the trunk network and will bring
this rate down.
2.33      Operating costs are generally low but, as a rule, are relatively
higher in the very small enterprises in less developed areas. The debt
burden is generally low. Interest charges are even in the worst case
covered five tGimes by net income.
2.3h      On a consolidated basis (Annex 12), the PTEs showed for postal
and -telecoammunications operations combined rates of return of 17%, 15% and
20% for the years 1966, 1967 and 1968. The decline in 1967 was due to
rapidly increasing costs of the postal services, wshich were compensated
for by the 3as Q tariff increase of 1968.  The Consolidated Profit and Loss
Statefme-nt for telecommunications operations is attachied as Annex 18 and a
Consolid-ata C"ash Flowl Statement as Annex 19.  Teleccmmunications not only
covered the losses but also contributed to the expansion needs of the
postal services.  Total contributions to the postal services in the year
1968 reached Din. 90 million, (US$7.2 million), which is about 15% of their
current e.openditures.



- 10 -
Financial Position
2.35      Notional balance sheete for each PTE are shown il Annex 10, con-
solidated balance shneets for all operatiornj in Annex li, balance sheets fo~r
postal operations In Annex 1l ard for zelEc.or.uniications operations in Annex
17 (notes and asslunptions are attached to .Annexes 10 and 17).  The value of
net fixed plant in service represents the h.istorical cost of capital ex-
penditures ol previous years, after depreciation and revalued according to
Federal Goverrment instructions.  Interest during construction and general
overheads are not capitalize1.  Tne Talues represent an adequate basis fo'r
rate of reti)rn considerations.
2.36      Following is a su=rary of the ccmsolidated assets of all PTBs as
of December 31, 1968:
Million dinars
Net fixed assets                                        1,92'
Current assets                                            567
Cash                                         357
Subscribers' accounts receiva-ble            113
Advances                                        7
Inventories                                   go
Loans and cred-ts to other enterprises                     98
Investments finkanced frmr, Joint
Con-,u.pt-ion Fund                           198
Total assets           2.784.
The high cash position reflects the decentralized cash acministration and
the legal limitation on the use of certain cash reserves; the CYPTT is
considering ways to better utilize available cash.  The collection record
is good. Most of the loans and credits have been granted to suppliers or
contractors, for the most part on a mediuin-term basis. Investments financed
from the Joint Consumption Fund represent houses, apartments, restaurants
and similar facilities for the use of the personnel.
2.37      The consolidated capitalization as of December 31, 1968, is shown
below:
Million dinars
Business Fund                               1,872
Reserves                                       51
Equity                                      l,923
Long-term loans                               475
Current liabilities                           188
Joint Consumption Fund                        198
Total liabilities                      2,784
The enterprises' equity consistsof the Business Fund and the reserves. The
Business Fund represents the net value of assets at the time of the transfer



- l-
to the newly created enterprises, plus retained earnings of succeeding
years adjusted for devaluations. It is the risk capital of the enterprise.
The long-term loans consist of two to three thousand small loans with a
great variety of conditions and terms causing heavy administrative costs.
Commercial banks, with little access to long-term funds and not equipped
to appraise large projects, lend only reluctantly at medium and long terms
and then only in small amounts. On the other hand, indepindent investment
banks, insurance companies and similar providers of long-term funds have
emerged only very recently. Government is conscious of this weakness of
its capital market, and a study is underway at the Ministry of Finance to
improve the situation. Reserves of the Joint Consumption Fund are not nor-
mally used to finance business activities.



- 12 -
3 T THE SEVEN-YEAP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ()969-197)
Descriptinn of the T&lecoraimunications Development Program
301       The Yugoslav PTTs' Program (1969-1975) has been approved by the
Federal Economic Counc;l at a total capital expenditure level of Din 5,875
million (US$470 million equivalent). The Federal Government i3 supporting
the Program, and has authorized special borrowings up to Din 800 million
frcm the Postal Savings Bank to finance local coots of the long distance
(LD) networks and other facilities common to all PTEs. All local systems
and most medium distance interconnection networks would be manufactured
domestically. Complex and sophisticated equipment of the main LD transit
system through which domestic LD and international traffic are routed,
would be imported.
3.02      The Program was prepared by the CYPTT in close cooperation with
the PTEs and coordinated under the General Plan by the CYPTT's secretariate
and specialized committees oI' the CYPTT (See Annex 1). It will reduce much
of the backlog of demand for telecommunicaticns services and provide new
facilities to remedy present traffic problems and to reduce the current
huge list of applications for telephones. By satisfying demand and
establishing well-planned and efficient autcmatic systems, the program
will also create favorable conditions for future development.
3.03      The details of the plant provisions covered in the Program are
set out in Annex 7. The general provisions under the main headings are
described below.
Local Telephone Systems
3.04      The Program would make available a total of 1,090,000 new direct
exchange lines (DEL) in about 800 new or extended automatic telephone ex-
changes. About 30,000 lines would be retired from service, making a net
increase of 1,060,000 DELs. Local line networks in cable and overhead
lines and subscriberst installations for about 850,000 new main telephone
subscribers and 1,600,000 telephone sets of all kinds will be installed
over the seven-year period. Local line networks, mostly underground cables,
will be expanded and installed for these capacities.
Regional Interurban System of the PTEs
3.05      Provision would be made for about 2,600 km high-capacity routes
in coaxial and symmetrical pair cables, 29,000 km overhead interurban
circuits, and short-haul radio relay and cable systems in and between
neighboring PTE areas. Carrier telephone equipment and automatic switching
equipment for about 22,000 interurban circuits would be installed in the
regional part of the total network (See Chart in Annex 6).



- 13 -
Main Long Distance and International Systems
3.06      The Program would include the main transmission and automatic
trunk switching systems in and between -bhe 17 main (tertiary) transit
centers and the provision of the links between these centers and principal
(secondary) interurban exchanges (See Chart in Annex 6). It includes
facilities for routing LD domestic, international and intercontinental
telephone, telegraph and telex traffic. This portion of the Program
constitutes the Project for which Bank financing is requested. (For
details, see the Project Description in Chapter 4 and Annex 7, paragraphs
9 and 10, and the construction schedule in Annex 8.)
Domestic Telegraph and Telex
3.07      The Program would provide for the purchase and Lnstallation of
switching equipment for about 7,000 automatic telex/gentex exchange con-
nections, 2,200 trunk telex circuits, and 1,200 teleprinters including
auxiliary equipment required for telegraph and telex services in PTT
offices.
Buildings, Other Development and Works
3.08      Provision would also be made for land acquisiticon and construction
of buildings for technical installations and administration, cable duct
wcrks, rearrangement and redistribution of existing facilities, expansior.
of specialized public and private services, miscollaneous development and
modernization works, development of general serv ices such as stores and
workshops,, inventories, transport means, tools and mechanical aids.
Training schemes, studies and planning, research and laboratory facilities
would also be expanded.
3.09      The Program is well prepared and technically sound.  The Assembly
of the CYPTT has approved the capacities planned for each PTE ,for the
regional LD networks, and for tbe common facLlities of the LD network
to be constructed by the 17 main PTEs. The systems have been planned
in detail and w ill be installed by the PTEs under the general coordination
and supervision of the CYPIJT which has been authorized for this purpose
(see also paragraph 4.06 and Annex 7, paragraphs 2 and 3). The PTEs'
staffs are experienced and capable of installing and putting the
facilities into operation. The Program is a suitable basis for the pro-
posed Bank Project.
Cost of Program
3.10      The following -ummarizes the constructicn costs of thie Program
under the principal headings (for dotails see Annex 9):



- 14 -
----Din MUlion -           --_-US$ Millicn----   % of
Local Foreign   T:tal    Local Foreign Total   Total
1.  Local. telephone
systems             2,776.6   17.5   2,794.1   222,2    1.4   222.6   l47.5
2. Regional networks
of the PTEs           639.1   16.3      655.4    51.2    1.3    52.5    11.2
3.  Main transit and
international
systems (the
Project)              375.0  812.5   1,187.5    300   65.0    95.0    20.2
4. Dcmestic telegraph
and telex             182.5   22.5      205.0    14.6    1.8    16.4       3.5
5. Buildings and
civil works, and
miscellaneous      1,001,8   31.2   1,033.0    80.0    2.5    82.5    17.6
4,975.0  900.0   5,875.0   398.0   72.0   470.0   100.0
These estimates are based on actual experience of the PTEs and of the CYPTT
in procurement from domestic and foreign manufacturers. The direct foreign
exchange component is estimated at about US$72 million equivalent. The
estimates are reasonable and include an adequate contingency allowance of
about 7% of the total.
3.11      Executicn of the Program started in January 1969.  Orders have been
placed by the 41 PTEs for 244,000 local eXchange lines and 15,000 trunk line
units in the existing exchanges over a 30-months' period.  Works are actively
underway for telephone exchange installations, local cable systems and sub-
scriberst outside plants which are not part of the Project and will be
procured domestically. Progress in undertaking the Program and installing
the planned facilities is satisfactory, and thus far on schedule.
3.12     Item 3 above for the main LD systems which are not produced locally
constitutes the proposed Bank Project for which the CYPTT will be the ex-
ecuting and supervisory agency on behalf of the 17 PTEs operating the main
transit and international exchanges. The project is described in Chapter 4.



- 15 -
4.  THE PROJECT
Description and Objectives of the Project
4.01      The Bank Project would consist of the construction  and putting
into operation over the period 1970 through 1974 of sophisticated systems
of the LD network for interurban national and international traffic. These
systems include complex equipment not produced locally or for which
capacities of the local Industries would not be adequate or sufficient
under the Program, The systems and facilities to be installed under the
Project cover:
a. automatic international telephone exchanges for
1,600 circuits and telegraph/telex exchanges for
1,100 circuits in Belgrade and Zagreb;
b. a satellite ground station for traffic with
Africa, America and Northern Europe using the
INTEISAT Atlantic space stations;
c. high capacity microwave radio relay systems for
eight main links and associated branching routes,
including ULnks with the satellite ground station
with Austria, Greece and Italy, the interconnection
link with Greece having also one channel for tele-
vision transmission;
d.  transmission centers in 17 main transit exchanges,
and in the principal (secondary) interurban ex-
changes of the LD network, including line, multi-
plexing and auxiliary transmission equipment for
terminal and transit carrier systems and approxi-
mately 30,000 LD telephone circuits between main
tran3it and principal trunk exchanges;
e. one coaxial cable completely equipped, as well as
repeators, gas and line control equipment for ten
other coaxial cables, including a link with idungary;
f<, transit telephone exchanges equipped for STD and
termrination of about 30,000 LD circuits, with
signalling systera in 17 main transit centers;
g. ex-pansion of regional cabjle., racLio and carrier systems
between nain tranjit and principal interurban exchanges;
and,
h. mikcellaneous other works and equi pment for the
ProJect and for operation and maintenance of the
systems.



- 16 _
A detailed description of the Project is given in Annex 7, paragraphs 9
and 10. Map 3 shows the proposed basic network for the international and
LD systems.
4.02      The objectives of the Project are to establish a modern
and efficient meshed network between main transit centers and from these
centers to other principaLl interurban exchrnges of the LD net-
work and to provide the LD circuits needed at lwer intorconnection levels
for STD service between any two telephone and telex subscribers. Inter-
national services would be initially semi-automatic through operators
dialing outgoing calls and later fully automatic from the subscribers.
Uniform four-wire switching of LD circuits and a standardized signalling
system compatible with other systems used in Yugoslavia and in Europe
would be introduced at international, national and regional levels of the
new networks. Spare capacities would be available from new installations
for requirements up to 1980, which is usual for such systems; equipment
of existing links would bo expanded and redistributed at regional levels.
The proposed networks are well planned for these objectives.
Cost Estimates
4.03      The cost of the Project is summarized as follows (See Annex 9,
page 2, for details and proposed yearly disbursements):



- 17 -
---Din Million---      ----- US$ Million----    %
Items              Local  Foreign   Total    Local Foreign  Total Total
A. Financed by IBRD
1.  International Tele-
phone & Telegraph
Exchanges             17.5    50.0       67.5     1.4    4.0      5.4      5.7
2. Satellite ground
station               15.0    35.0       50.0     1.2    2.8      4.0      4.2
3.  Radio relay systems  85.0   122.5       207.5     6.8    9.8    16.6    17.5
4. Carrier equipment
in transmission
stations              33.8   218.7      252.5     2.7   17.5      20.2   21.3
5. Coaxial cable and
line and control
equipment for
coaxial cables        83.7    31.3      115.0     6.7    2.5       9.2    9.7
6.  Other works,
engineering and
contingencies          7e5    42.5       50X      0.6    3,4       4.0   4&.2
Sub-Total A   242.5   500.o      7L2.5    19.4   40.0       59.4   62.6
B.  Financed by Others
7.  Transit exchanges
in 17 main cities    57.5   275.0       332.5     4.6  22.0       26.6   28.0
8. Other works and
contingencies         75eO    37.5       8705     60    3.0        9.0    9.4
Sub-Total B   132.5   312.5       445.0   10.7   25.0       35.7  37.4
Total Costs  A & B       375.0   812.5  1L187.5    30.o   65.0        95.0  100.0
Cost estimates are realistically based on previous experience; a reasonable
contingency allowance of about 62 is included.
4.04      The estimated total cost of the Project amounts to Din 1,187.5
million (Us$95 million equivalent), including an estimated foreign exchange
component of US$65 million consisting of items of complex equipment not
produced locally or for which local industry would not be sufficient or
adequate. The proposed Bank loan would finance US$40 million of the
foreign exchange cost of Items 1 to 6 listed in paragraph 4.03 above while
most of the balance of fareign exchange requirements up to about US$22 mil-
lion for Item 7 would be covered by suppliers' credits.



- l8 -
Construction Schedule and lRarticipent;  in the Pro ect
4.05      Construct-ion is ocheduled ror J97(0 1-iug1i,Atfl 1974. The planned
systems should be ooerativn b:r 1974.  A d-itafied schedullc is shot-n in
Annex 8.
4.06      The benoficiaries of the Bank lIoan would be the 17 Pq-Es operating
the main transit exchange - Belgrade, Zagreb. Ljubljana, 5arajevo, Novi
Sad, 'Rijeka, Nis, Solit, Ti.tegradc, ?.-.stLna, yostaL, Banja Luke, Titovo-
Uzice, Osijek, Kragujevac, Tuz-La and Skoplie.  Of these, the PTEs Belgrade
and Zagreb, which have the Internatiornl exchanges, would receive UIS$11,
million and US$6 million, respective.ly,  The  7 ?TEs would construct the
facilities; they have the experier.ce and capacity to carry out the proposed
Program under the coordinat,on and supervic Ior of the CYPTT which has been
authorized for this purpose. A specialikd planning and development depart-
ment has been established for this ir the CYPrTT  Adequate expert services
by expatriates for specific projects, such as the satellite ground station
and the plannina and operatioxi of ocmplox transmis3ion systemsn  as well as
for planning future dovelopmeiit, hi;ve been included.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.07      All items under the Project to be imported will be subject to
international competitive bidding except for a few specialized traffic and
measuring equiprnent for Iten & in paragraph 4.03 costing about US$3 million.
All purchases under the Bank loan would be subject to international com-
petitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers would participate in the bidding
with a 15% margin of preference. The Bank would finance the foreign ex-
change component of the cost of locally manufactured equipment.
4.08      Notwithstanding participation of domestic manufacturers, there
is no likelihood of significant local procurement under the proposed Bank
loan. This is because there is no production of many of the concerned items
or, where it exists, the capacity is just sufficient to meet other require-
ments in the Program. With the possible exception of a coaxial cable cost-
ing less than (about) US$ 1 million equivalent or some component units,
the domestic manufacturers are unlikely to be in a position to supply the
equipment and materials to the requirements, guarantees and installation
schedules of CYPTT's bid invitation.
4.09      Disbursement would be made for the CIF price of imported equip-
ment and materials. The procedure or method to identify the foreign ex-
change component in bids from participating domestic manufacturers was dis-
cussed during negotiations. It is proposed that the CYPTT will establish
lists of acceptable Yugoslav manufacturers for Bank financed items. The
percentage of the foreign component in these bids is likely to vary among
the categories due to the variety and complexity of the equipment involved.
CYPTT will establish these percentages in consultation with Yugoslav manu-



- 19 -
facturers and submit their proposals for Bank approval with supporting
data. Where applicable, the bidding documents will refer to them. If
actual expenditures under the Project are less than present estimates,
consideration should be given to apply these savings to related items in
the Program.
4.10      The transit exchanges of the main LD network under the Project
will be financed by suppliers' credits after international competitive
bidding including credit terms (see paragraph 4.04). Several major pro-
ducers of telecommunications equipment have indicated that they would
participate. CYPTT intends to set a minimum term of about 10 years and
a maximum interest rate of 8% per annum. There is a possibility of domes-
tic producers supplying some components of this equipment as subcontractors
since several local manufacturers of similar telecommunications equipment
work under license and technical cooperation agreements with international
suppliers, for example, "Nikola Tezla" in Zagreb cooperating with L.M.
Ericsson, 1Elektronska Industrija" in Nis with Siemens & Halske, and "Iskra
Industrija" in Kranj with the Swedish ITT subsidiary.
4.11      Equipment for the local systems and part of the regional net-
works, which are not included in the Project, will be procured from
domestic manufacturers who have the capacity to produce the needed quantity
and quality. Their prices compare favorably with prices on the international
market.



- 20 -
5.  JIJS'rT:,CATION
remand for Telecommuncations Services
5.01      Telecommunications have been somewhat neglected in Yugoslavia
relative to other countries at a corparable level of economic develop-
ment. V7hereas in 1968 Yugcc3avia had a tieplnhono density of 2.L< tr  o10
inhabitants, Portugal had 6 G, Gree5r 6.7 ard Bulgaria 3.7. Pe
US$ICO, COCO of GMP, Yugoslavia had 4.8 telephones, Portugal 15.6, Greece
10.8 and Bulgaria 5,9.  In the 1969-1?75 Development Program it is Dlanned
to add 1.6 million tele2hones to the present 600.0O.0, which TwcuLd satisfy
a large part of the rapidly growing neec's.
5.02      This ambItious telecommunications Development Program is well
justified by the demand for teleccmmunication services. The waiting list
for connections, though maintained only where an immediate expansior is
expected, contain 620,000 potential subscribers.  Tho total demand is
estimated to be up to 30% hig7her, 806,000.  If one assumes conservatively
a price elasticity of derand of -0,2 for telephone connections, an
elasticity observed in some advanced countries with less high priority
demand and backlog, the introduction of the proposed uniform tariffs
(see paragraph 2.29) would bring the demand down to about 610,000.
Assuming furthermore that demand wi.ll  li.kc in the past, grcw about twice
as fast as GNP and applying GNP grcwth expectations of 7.5% p.a., the
total demand to be satisfied during the Program period would be 1.6
million DELs, substantially beyond the additional 850,000 main telephone
lines which are excected to be put into service during the period of the
Program. Even if the growth of demand were equal to the assumed growth
of GNP, a demand for 150,000 main lines would remain unsatisfied.
5.03      The Project would expand considerably the national transit
system, almost quintupling the number of LD circuits between tertiary ex-
changes. At present the system suffers from heavy congestion, which
causes wear and tear on switching equipment as well as higher maintenance
expenditures and costs to subscribers in terms of waiting time. Most of
the LD facilities experience a full capacity utilization during the busy
hour period, which is in many cases up to five times longer than usually
observed in other European countries. The present demand is therefore
not fully measurable which makes estimating future demand for LD service
difficult. The new capacities, which have been planned in optimum
standardized sizes, would be fully utilized within five years after
termination of the expansion program. Long distance and international
facilities are used mainly for business traffic and administrative purposes.
Extension of these facilities is of high priority.
Eccnomic Benefits and Rate of Return
5.04      The Program's benefits are reflected in its incremental rate of
return which is 19% (Annex 22), at present tariffs.



- 21 -
5.05      A cost-benefit analysis is included in Annex 23 showing the
most likely incremental rate of return of the Project which would be
27% with present tariffs.
5.06      The economic benefits of the Project would hcwever be con-
siderably higher. The increased speed of transmission will save valuable
time of executives, permit lower inventories and thereby capital costs,
and increase market transparency with resulting improved allocation of
consumer goods and investment resources. While it is difficult to
measure all these impacts separately, it is reasonable to assume that a
large number of subscribers would be ready to pay more than the present
and proposed rates for telecommunications services, because these charges
are less than the savings, increased profit opportunities, etc., attri-
butable to telecommunications services. An effort was made to estimate
this consumers' surplus and add it to the direct financial benefits in
order to indicate the magnitude of econcmic benefits. The results are
attached as Annex 27.
5.07      The Project's various provisions are well balanced, with even
those of lowest priority showing a satisfactory rate of return. For ex-
ample, the provision considered to be the least urgent is the coaxial
cable Titograd-Titovo Uzice, which has been analyzed separately. Under
very conservative assumptions, it shows an incremental rate of return
of 15% (Annex 24).
5*.8      About 17% of the proposed Bank loan would be used to finance
international telephone and telegraph exchanges and a satellite ground
station.  Besides being very profitable, this part of the Project would
add to Yugoslavia's foreign exchange earnings from transit traffic.
Such net earnings, which reach US$0.5 million in 1967, would increase to
US$2.7 million at the end of the expansion program, and would - over the
life time of the Project - be approximately equal to the proposed Bank
loan.
5.09      The satellite ground station represents a basic initial in-
vestment whose capacity cannot be fully utilized from the very beginning.
Also, traffic via sat,ellite is still in an early stage of development and
the economi.es of scale have not yet been fully realized, which means that
rentals are still high. In view of thesa factors, this part of the Pro-
ject has been scrutinized in detail. The two factors of greatest un-
certainty proved to be demand and the future cost of renting a satellite
channel. Under the most likely cost and revenue assumption, the in-
cremontal rate of return of the satellite ground station would be 28%
(Annex 25). An assumption of low demand-high cost still shcwed a return
of 22,0 (Annex 26). Besides these direct benefits the Project will have
the beneficial. side effect of introducing Yugoslav telecommunications
engineers and the concerned executive staff to a new technology with
possibilities of application elsewhere in the economy.



- 22 -
6.  FUTUIU  FJ'NANCES
Financing Plan
6.01      The following analysis of the sect,or's future finances focuses
on telecommunications operations and concerns itself with postal ,ervices
only in ccnnection with future capital transfers between the servicer;.
The following table summarizes the capital requiremen.ts for the expansion
of teleccmmunication facilities in the period 1969-1975 and the proposed
financing plan. A cash flcwv statement reflecting the most likely develop-
ment is attached as Annex 19.
---Dinars-       JS$
Requirements                      In M llion    In Million   2
Capital construction under
1969/75 Program                             5,875             470      73
Advance expenditure for future
program                                        700             56       9
Increase of cash, current assets
and credits                                    674             54       9
Investments of Joint Consumption Fund            435             35       5
Transfer to Postal Services                      380             31       4
Total Requirements                  8,064            646      100
Sources of Funds
Internal cash generation                       7,157            573
Minus:  Debt Service                          (1,089)           (86)
Own disposable cash resources                 6,088             487      76
Borrowing                                      1,725            138      21
IBRD Loan                                (    5co         (   40   (   6
Postal Savings Bank loan                 (    800         (   64   (  10
Supplier's Credit                         (    275         (   22   (   3
Local Credits                            (    150         (   12   (   2
Increase of current liabilities                  271             21       3
Total Sources                       8,064            646      100



- 23 -
Besides the amount of Din 5,875 million for capital construction under
the 1969175 Program, a provision of Din 700 million for advance expendi-
tures for the next program has been made, which is likely to be spent
in 1974 and 1975.  Internal cash generation of telecommunications will
finance 76% of the total requirerents after covering the debt service,
while 21% would be borrowed and 3% financed by increasing short-term
liabilities (Annex 19).
6.02      Borrowing assumed are as follows:
a.  The proposed IBRD loan of US$40 million would cover
9% of the capital construction under the Program.
It would be lent to the 17 beneficiaries through
the Yugoslav Investment Bank for a term of 20 years
with a grace period of five years. The disburse-
ment period is four years but some retention payments
are likely to take place in the fifth year. In
addition to the 7% interest payable to the Bank, a
1/2% interest will have to be paid to the Yugoslav
Investment Bank besides some minor fees;
b. The Postal Savings Bank is authorized and has agreed
to lend up to Din 800 million at a rate of 1% above
the rate payable on savings deposits. The loan is
projected to cost on the average 6% per annum; re-
payment is assumed to begin in 1974 and extend over
a period of 10 years;
c. The successful suopliers of the US$22 million
equipment to be procured under international
competitive bidding (paragraph 4.04 and paragraph
14.10), who will have to provide long-term financing,
are expected to offer credits at an interest rate of
not more than 8% for terms of not less than 10 years
and repayab'le in not less than seven equal annual
amounts beginning with the year following final
delivery of all equipment;
d. Local credits of about Din 150 million were rneeded in
1969 and Din 100 million will again be needed in
early 1970. They are assumed to carry an average
interest rate of 7',i and to be amortized in the seven
years following disbursement.
Thin financing plan does not consider the LD tariff unification and in-
troduction of minimum rates being requested by the CYPTT form the Yugoslav
Government. The tariff structure change along the lines indicated in
paragraph 2.29 would generate scme additional revenues in the Program
period, which would reduce the need for domestic borrowings in the early
years and permit some contingency reserves and an accelerated amortization
of debts later on.



- 24 -
6.03      The high ratio of self-f iaiicing reflect the assumpti o  that
all profits would be retained in the MFsI', except for the allocatIon of
the Joint Consumption Fund - roughly comparable to dividends - and the
limited transfer to postal services. The CYPTT irtend3 to Ol2nimnatc
losses in the postal operations and to hAve the postal branch fiinance
at least part of its own capital noeds (seo paragraph 2.30.). Since no
official decision has thus far h3een made Ln this respect, and in order
to ensure ar.eouate financing of the teLecommunication Dnvel.opmorct Pro-
gram, agreement has beern re;chedl that. annual transfers to postal oervices
will be kept within a limit of Din 100 million, which would be sufficient
to finance an adequate modernization and roorganization of postal s crvices
and leave a'out Din 59 mpillion to cover lossos. CYFTT will inform the
Bank whenever the transfers to postal services exceed Din 50 million.
Future Earnings and Financial Position
6.04      A forecast of telecommunications revenues on a consolidated
basis is included in Annex 18. Even without the tariff change, revenues
are forecasted to increase by 250% from 1968 to 1975. The operating
ratio is not expected to exceed 60% in any of the projected ycars, which
is low by interraticnal standards.  The lowest projected rate of return
on net fixed assets in operation is 19% in the latter part of the program
period, but the proposed adjustments of tariffs structure (see paragraph
2.29) will increase this rate of well above 20%.
6.05      The future financial position for telecommunications operations
on a consolidated basis is satisfactory (Annex 17). Fixed assets in
operation are forecast to increase 3.6 times between 1968 and 1975, equity
3.5 times3 and long-term debt only 3.7 times, thus reducing the debt-
equity ratio from 19:81 to 18:82. Liquidity is adequate over the projected
period and reaches a current ratio to 1.9:1 in 1975.
Rate Covenant and Debt Limitation Clause
6.o6      A rate covenant has been agreed during negotiations expressing
net income from telecommunications operations after covering all operat-
ing expenses for telecommunications, including a notional straight-line
depreciation of five per cent and taxes as a percentage of average net
fixed telecommunication assets in operation. For the Program period
1969-75, a rate of return of 18% was determined together with CYPTT as
the minimum required for financing from internal cash generation that
portion of the program for which financing from other sources could not
be secured. This calculation is attached as Annex 20, page 5. On the
basis of present forecasts, achievement of this minimum rate will not
require any tariff increases; the actual rates of return are in fact
likely to be higher. Since the expansion of telecommunications after
1975 is not expected to continue at tho present pace and will therefore
require less funds, a minimum rate of return of 15% is considerod adequate
thereafter.



- 25 -
6.07      To ensure the minimum rate of rsturn for the telecommunications
sector and at the same tiae the adequate financing of the expansion pro-
gram of each individual PTE, the CYPTT will determine for each PTE a rate
of return between 10% and 25%, depending on the rate of expansion of
facilities assigned to the PTE under the Program. The ratification of
these minimum individual return levels by the Assembly of the CYPTT is a
condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan. The CYPTT will review
these rates as required and adopt them to changing circumstances, inform-
ing the Bank promptly about any future amendments.
6.08      Although the lack of long-term loan funds has been an important
constraint on the sectorts financing operaticns, the amount of debt out-
standing for individual PTEs varies considerably and may in some instances
reach the point at which it raises questions as to the entityTs continued
solvency and financial viability. For this reason it was agreed to in-
clude a debt limitation covenant in the Project Agreement with CYPTT
which provides that no new long-term debt for telecommunications operations
should be incurred by any PTE unless the maximum annual future debt
service of any PTE for such debt is covered one and one half times by not
telecommunications revenue (before charging depreciation) of a 12-month
period prior to the incurring of new debt.
6.09      As a method of giving CYPTT an "early warningt that a PTE is
approaching its debt limit, there is a further provision in the debt
limitation covenant which obligos a PTE to inform CYPTT whenever, with
the incurrence of new debt, the coverage under the debt limitation covenant
reaches the level of two times,



- 26 -
7. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS
7.01      The proposnd Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$LO mil-
lion with a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period, under
the following conditions which have boen agreed to during negotiations:
a.  Subisidiary agreements for re-lending to the 17
PTEs which will be the beneficiaries of the Bank
loan will be submitted by YIB for Bank approval
(paragraph 2.12);
b.  The accounts for postal and telecommunications
services will be separated completaly not later
than January 1, 1971;
c.  Audits will be. performed on the basis of these
separate accounts; consolidated telecommunications
accounts for all PTEs will be forwarded to the
Bank within four months after the end of each
fiscal year (paragraph 2.23). An audit certi-
ficate covering all PTEs separately and their con-
solidated accounts will be forwarded to the Bank
within six months after the end of the fiscal
year;
d.  Government will agree that it will authorize the
changes in the tariff structure as set out in
paragraph 2.29 which shall be made effective not
later than January 1, 1971; the acceptance of the
new structure by the Federal Price Control
Commission is a condition of effectiveness of the
loan;
e.  Total annual transfers of profits from telecom-
munications to the postal services will not ex-
ceed Din 100 million per annum (paragraph 6.03);
f.  A rate of return of 18% calculated on the average
consolidated telecommunications assets of all PTEs
will be applied during construction of the Program
and a rate of 15% thereafter; the CYPTT will assign
to each FPE a rate of return between 10% and 25%
in accordance with the rate of expansion of its
facilities; the ratification of the specific rate of
each PrE by the Assembly of the CYPTT is a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(paragraphs 6.06 and 6.07); and,



- 27 -
g. The Bank will be consulted if the maximum annual
future debt service of any PTE is not covered one
and one half times by net revenues of a 12-month
period prior to the incurring of new debt (paragraph
6.07).
February 2, 1970






YUGOStAVIA
GENERAL ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE YUGOSLAV POSTS, TELEGRAPHS AND TELEPHONES
f`TVMJT-F~ FOR;
_______ _______ _______ _______ _   _____ _______ _______ _______ASSEMBLY     Of   THlE
COMMUNITY OF YUGOSLA\ PTT (CYPTT)
________________                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POSTAL  TRAFFIC
TELEPHONE
TRAFFIC
MANAGING BOARD                                                             4          TR         3
(CYPTT.
l   |                                          -| ECONOMtC ~~~~~~~~~~~~AF FAIRS
-DIRECTOR GENERAL
IVJEL {CYJET)                                                                     |     MATTER OF
l                                   -1        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAINING
OFFICE CF  TELE~~~~~~~~~~~~~HCNE TRAFFIC ~~~~~~~~~ORGA-IZATION                                                                       POSTAGE
.   OFFNTICENOF        POSTAL TRAFFIC        GENERhA TPAFI               TELEGAPH                INSPECTIONLE         ECONOMIC AFFAIRS          LEGAL GENERAL             STAMPS AND
t   RELAPIONS                               AND DEVELOPMENT              TPAFFIC                   .T.                                           AFFAIRS               PUBLICATIONS
_R . 
ENTERPRISES 
r   *m]  R H             l                [NTERRISEBAN               AIR TRANSPORT   l                        |r
!ER D - 4 59 (






i 2IIEX 2
age   of 3 pages
YUGOSLAV PTT
The Organization of the PTT Operating Enterprises (PTE9)
1.        In Yugoslavia today, the "corporate" enterprise occupies a
position somewhat similar to that in western economies, the main difference
being in the concept of ownerghip. The "corporate" enterprises are owned
by society as a whole, but the assets of an individual enterprise are man-
aged by the people working in it, who are also the usufructuaries similar to
shareholders. In their managerial function the people, while they cannot
sell their share of the ownership, have the right to decide on the allocation
of "profits" between reinvestment and the salaries and wages that represent
their ccnpensation as workers, managers and owmers.  Bcsides these "cor-)orate"
enterprises, private enterprises are permitted in Yugoslavia. Althoughl no
private enter2riL;e may employ more than five, more than half the active
population is working in the private sector.  This genoral fr,ienork Trill
help to understand the organization of the PTIs, as described belowl.
2.        The PTEs internal organization, which they themselves can design,
varies from enterFri,3e to enterprise, depending on the size and tasks of
each.  To illustrate the differences, organograms of three PTEs - Belgrade,
Osijek and Zagreb - are attached as page 3 to this Annex, and as Annexes 3
and L respectively. The basic structure, however, is common to all the PTEs.
The top policy body for each is the WNlorkers' Council, elected by the per-
sonnel of the enterprise. The Council, in turn, elects the Managing Board
and the Director.  The enterprise itself consists of Worning Units which,
except for very small PTEs, are subdivided into operatirng or executive
units which normally also have a Workerst Council and a Ilanager.  The cri-
toria for the breakdown into working units or operating units may be
functional or geographical. The Director of an enterprise heads a Secre-
tariat which handles problems common to the enterprise as a whole.  These
Secretariats are themselves working units whose organizational. structure
is adapted to the size and specific functions of the enterprise.
3.        The statutes of each enterprise set forth the electoral process
for nominating delegates and manager,.  Basically, there is a pyramid (the
lower level electing the Workers' Council of the next hi-her level) with the
delegates appointed for two years only. Just as the PTE Director is elected
by the W.'orkers'Council, at the top level, the managers of the various working
units are chosen by their respective council.
4.        Enterprises iwith this lkind of organizational setup scarcely could
be expected to operate effectively in countries with a lcss flexible approach
to problem solving.  In the case of the Yugoslav PTEs, problems of coordi-
nation and delimitation of competence and functions on the various levels,
as well as between the councils and managers, are much more complex than



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
problens of delegation in a centralized entity.  But wherever the official
lines of delegation have proved inadequate, informal lines have been es-
tablished; likewise, definitions of responsibilities which originally were
rather vapue have been improved continuously.  The Yugoslav PTEs have rea-
lized the advantage their system offers - namely: the incentives for
increased productivity the system provides by allowing all personnel, even
on the lowest levels, to participate in decisions concerning working con-
ditions and salary levels. This has apparently outweighed the disadvantage
of a duplication of functions on the various levels of the pyramid.
5.        There are considerable differences in the quality of management
in the PTEs.  Small enterprises in less developed areas find it rathcr
difficult to attract professionals for specialiized fields particularly
finance and econotzics.  The prevailing integration nmovement will however
remedy this situation. The present trend to stress more professional than
political factors when selecting new managers will further improve the
situation.
November 241, 1969



YUGOSLAV PTT
ORGANIZ4AION CHART OF PTT ENTERPRISE BELGRADE
WORKER'S COUNCIL
OF ENTERPRISE
MANAGING BOARD
DIRECTOR
WORKING UNITS (2;                                                                                                          DIRECTORATE
(Organized os a Working Unit)
REGIONAL WORKING UNITS 31               EECUrVr UNiT5 (5) C                                                                        OPfRATIV   UNITS FOR
FUNCTIOMAL "'>CR4NG UNITS (4  {EACZCOiN               N_                                                                                      | 67
TELEPHiONE                                   INVESTMENT               GENERAL                INTERNAL           PUBLIC DEFENSE
POSTAL TAIC            AND TELEGRAPH             FINANCES                 AND                                                               AND CIVIL
TRAFFIC                                   COMMERCIAL              DEPARTMENT               CONTROL             PROTECTION-
il EACH CP         i RAT lE eUIT CA. KACH SLVi4. ACC-.JlC, UIiTS.                              _
E.CH 'U.FrKlH- L,.IT cAN BE DeF   l;Ei PEC.,LI A                                                                                                              I OI 'UTIONALY.                           -
(3, TWELSE RFCIH,EA-VY DEFISED --RE I  I TI. G. E.G  I! EDE EV-
WHI-r ARE MIA  PTI O-ICEES ESFOY5NIE_E FGG A CE'TAIN AREA.
(;) SEvENl F-ECTIAuL.Y DEFINEC S U -ING UlTS, E.,. AE TEGARAGE                                                                            I
OH SlA- T.-CEC--'H                                                                                                         ACCOUNTANCY UNITS (1)
(53 EXECLTIVE LNITS A-E NORMALLY SMALL LOCAL PTT OCRICES, E.G,                                                                                                                                                           O
SMEDEFEVG HAS TWErTY EQU- ESECUTI-E U<ITSx
(6) ACCOJNTANCY uNIT . E.G. THE WC,EUE.IE _F AN A_TE SARAGE
WHICH HAS SEPARATE ACCOUNTS.                                                                                                                                                                     R
IBRD - 4594(R)       °,






YUGOSLAV PTT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF PTT ENTERPRISE OSIJEK
WORKING COUNCIL
MANAGING vOARD
DIRECTOR
WORKiNG UNIT       WORKINC: UNIT        WORKING UNIT       WORKING UNIT        WORKING UNIT         TT WORKING          WORKING UNIT         WORKING UNIT
OSIJEK    l        NASICE *         BELt MANASTIR +       VINKOVCI *          VUKOVAR *             UNIT             AUTOGARAGE        DIRECTORATE AND
JOINT SERVICES
COUNCIL OF THE UNIT
Each working unit hus:
MAINAGING HEAD
z
z
PIT O~EIOE OF SHE .UCALITY                                                                                                                IBRD - 4595(R)



ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE JOINT SERVICES (DIRECTORATE) OF PTT ENTERPRISE ZAGREB
DIRECTOR
ADMIN15TRAT10L|    DEPARTMENT FOR 1                   |       TECHNICAL                     INVESTMENT                    DEPARTMENT FOR                      EN                             U A' FOR
ADMINISTRATION                  DEATETFRDPRDEPAR                                    TEPRMETADAENT                                                                 ECOFONOMIC                    BURANTO
DEPARTMENT                   PTT EXPLOITATION                (MAINTENANCE)                   EDEVELOPMENT)              L      T TRAFFIC                                                     CA D! NA.N
PERSCN.E--                                    ~~~~~SECTr'N. FOR E'T           SECIO  FOR                                                                          i 
p SECTION  X < F tOo                                                                              '8R  X  k m r O r,           S ON EQS |ILN
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A _I                                                                                    AW  'SLE                         STEA    , ---'
-LINES AND LINE                   OONSEFT ILI Or                             NTorrI
L  SECTION FOR             _  POSTAGELSTAMPS              _  DRAWING                      _   CON ENTORIE                 _  SEC 'IC'A rore               _  GOOX*CEE;~I:ONI
ADMOIASTRATDIVE                                                                                    IONTFOS  ONR  SECTO   VO   SOI  CN C ENS FORI*'ICE
E|TION SECTION                SECTORN FOR.1                       T UATC Ar'A~EMT                                            SECTION FOR
AND LE'JAL SECTION             TT SERVICE                                                      OF TT EQIIPMETNTILDISTRHLJ-IiON
SECT!ON FOR            ~POSTAGE STAMPS                 DRAWNINGFSFCrC4F
SOCIAL STANDARDS                AND STATIONERY                 BUREAUINETRS                                                             S         J
O EFENSE ANOD!.TO
CIVIL PROTECTION                                                                                                          .5.T.
SE CRE*TARIWAT     |-I SETTLEMENT
AND F:IIAf-CE
P TT MUSEUM           |
N,TFEAC- D-PA-N.E-T GA SECTION PAR IN AODITIPl rAG MANA-ING
HEAO  O CGU-L Eo WOKNNlS Sl r-M**.GMN.
-bR     . *.'i



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
TELEOOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (Consolidated)
Basic Data as of 1968 and for the 1969-1975 Development Program
PLANT, TELEPHONES AND OTHER FACILITIES IN SERVICE (end 1968)
Number       Remarks
-  No. of telephone stations of all kinds               f5b       in thousands
-  No. of main subscribers' lines in service           341.5      in thousands
-  Percent  automatic lines                             93
- Telephone density, No. of stations of all
kinds per 100 population                            2.72
-  No. of telephone exchanges                        2,850
- No. of installed direct telephone exchange
lines (DEL)                                         4.0      in thousands
- No. of domestic long distance (LD) and
regional circuits                              9,600
- No. of international terminal and transit
circuits                                          267
- Total length of LD circuits                            1.3      in million km
-  Percent  of subscribers connected to
automatic LD tra£fic                              B5         percent.
- No. of private telex subscribers                   2,350
- Average yearly growth rate in total no. of
telephones during past three years                  9.8      percent'
T19EPHOITE TRAFFIC
National traffic, No. of metered pulses
(unit calls) in 1968                           1,700         in millions
-  Percent  pulses from LD traffic                      62        estimated
- Ycarly growth in No. of pulses from 1967              24        percent
TInternational traffic, No. of calls                 l.ll      in millions
TOTAL .-,T AFF (end 1968)
-  In aiLl PTT Enterprises                              36.4      in thousands
-  R, timated No. of full time tele-
communications staff                          11,000
A-SETS VALUE AND REVENUE (end 1968)
-  Fixed telecommunications assets                       2.6      in billion Din.
-  Average capital cos.t, per telephone (all kinds) 4,600         in Din.
- Total revenue from telecommunications
traffic (1968)                                    989.0      in rillion Din.



ANNEX 5
Fage 2 of 2 pages
DEMAND - PROPOSED EXPANSION AND F3TIMATED COST3 (1969-1975)
Number       Romarks
-  No. of waiting applications for telephones   620       in thousands
- Proposed net increase in No. of inot2lled
DELs during the seven year-program         1,060     in thousands
- Proposed yearly growth rate in main tele-
phone lines in service (average during
the proposed period)                          19     in percent
- Total estimated construction costs of
1969-1975 development program                470.0   in million
TJS$ equivalent
-  Estimated costs of the main LD trunk
and international systems under the
Project (1970-1974)                           95.0   in million
US$ equivalent
- Proposed Bank loan portion of construc-
tion costs                                   0.0   in million US$
(i.e. 7.6% of
development
program)
February 2, 1970



AiNEX 6
Page 1 of 8f pages
YUGOSlAV TELECOPDiUICATIONS SERVICES
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
General
1.        The pat-ern and kind of existing telecommunications facilities
and their present development reflect the geographical patteirn of economic
activity, as well as demography, in Yugoslavia.  Telephone densities are
higher and more interconnection facilities have been developed in the
northern and central parts of the country, including Belgrade, where
industrial, commercial and administrative users are located and where
urban population is dense.  Recent development, still partly underway,
has taken care of the growing needs of the developing southern states and
of the important requirements for international traffic. All new instal-
lations have been rapidly saturated, and growth of traffic and demand for
all types of services have proven much higher than the increase in avail-
able capacity. Increasing congestion is observed principally in the auto-
matic systems in and between the main cities.
2.        Present telephone density in Yugoslavia in number of telephones
of all kinds per hundred population is only 2.5, the second lowest in
Europe - including USSR and the socialist countries of Eastern Europe -
after Albania (0.31). This compares with the follawing telephone density
figures of some European countries:
Sweden              47.9    France               13.2
Plorway             25.1    Czechoslovakia       11.1
United Kingdom               East Germany        10.1
and Holland        20.1    Poland               4.5
Federal lRepublic            USSR                 3.9
of Germany         15.9
and with telephone density in the six countries, other than Albania, border-
ing on Yugoslavia:
Austria             1h.9    -Iungary             5.9
Italy               12.5    Bulgaria            3.7
Greece               6.7    Rumania             2.9
Such a low telephone density indicates in itse'lf the overall insufficiency
of Yugoilav telecommunications services and the need for their rapid ex-
pansion.
3.        since 1967, the number of telephones in Yugoslavia has exceeded
500,000 and since that date Yugoslavia has been among the 33 countries
which share 9612 of the total telephones used in the world.  By June 1969,
there were more than 600,000 telephones of all kinds and about 370,000 main



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 8 pages
subscriberst lines in service in Yugoslavia.  Present systems are relatively
modern;  93% of the main sulbscribers lines are autocimatic, and 85% of the main
lines are connected to the autonatic long distance tc!cphono sorvi.ce through
subscriberst trunk dialing (STD),  Howover, due to rapid ocoi.oiine growth dur-
ing recent past and to a relative slowness in buildi.ng the organization of
PTEst operations and development, and in elaborating khe financial and tcch-
nical means required for modern and conple. networks, the present backlog of
demanld is huge.  Registered unsatisfied applicat.ions for telephone connec-
tions - not including hidden demand - total 620,000 which is about 15 tinmes
the available facilities.  Thereas-ng local and long distarce (L) traffic
congestion is observed in all  r portant; clties an6 in the LD network between
them.  The following describes the principaJ! of thec exist:ng systerms.
Local Telephone
4.        Of the 407,000 direct telephone exchange lines (DEL) available for
service in June 1969, about 375,000 were automatic and installed in 660 local
exchanges; the remaining 32,000 were mnmwually onerated in about 2,200 ex-
changes. Switching equipment of approximately half the automatic lines is
step-by-step type having been installed between 1945 and 1965. Crossbar-type
equipment has been progressively introduced since 1962; all new local ex-
chlanges are now of this type which has been standardized under the revised
General Plan, and are entirely manufactured in Yugoslavia by two factories
which operate under licenses from L. M. Ericsson (Sweden) at "Nikola Tezla
Industrija",Zagreb, and from the Swedish subsidiary of ITT "Iskra Industrijaa"
at Kranj. These factories have now sufficient production capacities to pro-
vide local switching equipment domestically required and also to export about
25% of their production.  Equipment for small exchanges is normally installed
by the PTEst staff and in the larger exchanges with assistance from the sup-
pliers.  A list of the number of DELs available at the time of the appraisal
in the operating areas of the present 41 PTEs is as follows:
1. Belgrade     86,500   15. Sr. Ijitrovica  3,000   29. Koper          3,500
2. Pancevo       5,000   16. Zagreb          55,000   30. N. Gorica    2,000
3. Kragujevac    5,000   17. Karlovac         6,000   31. Kranj         5,000
4. Svetozarevo   3,000   18. S1. Brod         3,000   32. Celje         3,000
5. Kraljevo       2,500   19. Bjelovar        4,000   33. Maribor       7,000
6. Krusevac      2,500   20. Varazdin         3,000   34. M. Sobota    1,000
7. Titovo Uzice  3,000   21. Osijek          10,000   35. Sarajevo    17,500
8. Cacak         4,000   22. Rijeka          17,500   36. Zenica        4,000
9. Nis/Leskovac 18,000   23. Split            9,000   37. Tuzla         7,500
10. Pristina      7,000   24. Zadar            2,500   38. Banja Luka   8,000
11. Novi Sad     15,000   25. Sibenik          2,000   39. 1Nostar       5,000
12. Sombor        2,500   26. Dubrovnik        3,000   40. Skoplje      27,000
13. Subotica       5,000   27. Ljubljana      20,000   41. Titograd    10,000
14. Zrenjanin     5,000   28. Novo Mesto       2,500        Total      707,000
A detail of the distribution of lines by secondary traffic zones in each PTE
as at December 31, 1968, is given in Annex 7, Table 1, pages 7 to 10. During
the first half of 1969, the number of DELs available for service increased
by net 17,000 lines and at the time of appraisal about 40,000 additional lines
were being commissioned.



ANTEX 6
Page 3 of d pages
5.        Telephone exchange zones, transit areas for the general intercon-
nection of any two telephone sets of the country, and numbering plan shown
in  Xap 1 are determined under the General Plan of the Yugoslav PTT which is
prepared and adopted by the CYPTT and is mandatory for all PTEs. The Plan
and the attached instr'ietions also determine quality standards, operations
and maintenance procedures, as well as all conditions for acceptance of facil-
ities and systems, and for the introduction of all kiLds of telecommunications
services to the public. Services and standards of installation are of the same
quality applied by most zuropean countries and recommended by the ITU.
6.        The local distribution systems are largely underground in the main
towns and by aerial cable and open-wire lines in smaller towns and in rural
areas, principally where service is manuaa.ly ope2'ated. All outside line
plants and subscribers  stats cns are manu.actured locally, and., with the ex-
ception of the ma=n ducts and underground cable tunnels in large cities, are
installed by the PTEsl staff. Underground and aerial local networks are
generally adequately constructed and well maintained. However, the cable dis-
tribution networks in the central part of some main cities, such as Belgrade,
Zagreb, Ljubljana and Sarajevo, are saturated and old and have attained a
state where they should be progressively renewed, which will. be made at the
occasion of the large expansion now required.
Long Distance System
7.        The Yugoslav network 'or ID conmunicat-ions is, technologically5 or-
ganized into a homogeneous automatic system. According to the origin and
flow of traffic from the local (terminal) telephone exchanges, there are, at
trunk service level, 370 primary (nodal), 78 secondary (principal or zone) and
17 tertiary (main transit) centers, or interurban exchanges, through which the
LD circuits are interconnected and the calls are routed. The links between
interurban exchanges and the switching functions of these exchanges are or-
ganized at three levels in correspondence with traffic flows and nature of
the required connections.  Iedium distance traffic mostly uses tapered trunk
links of the regional systems between primary and secondary interurban ex-
changes.  Secondary and tertiary transit exchanges are connec-ted by higher-
quality and longer circuits providing loop facilities between the principal
of these exThangcs.  The diagraa of links between trunk e-.changes is given in
attached Chart 1 to this Annex. Locations and names of the secondary and
tertiary exchanges, and the Yugoslav basic numbering schemo for LD services,
are shown in Ilap 1.
Long Distance Links
M.The LD transmission network is made of overhead lines, coaxial and
symmetrical pair underground cables and radio relay links. Carrier f+requency
multiplexing equipment is installed in the transmission cernters close to the
interurban exchanges and provides the required number of telegraph and tele-
phone channels over these systems.  ExistinC cables and radio links at the
end of 1969 are shown in Nap  '.  L summary doscription with the characteristics
of these main transmission systems and facilities follows:



AhNEX 6
PgTof R pages
(a)  Overhead LLnes - The total length of overhead open wire
lincS i-8 19,656 km with 1,708 line.
(b)  Coaxial cablesi - The coaxial cable network mostly consists
of standard dameter coaxial cables /2.6/915mmn/ with 2 or
4 paies depending oin the route.  There are 1,150 km of
coa*ida3 cables, i.e. 3,800 km coazial pairs.  Coaxial
cables are principally providing international links, links
between tertiary (main transit) exchanges and 'inks between
tertiary and secondary exchanges.
(c)  Carrier frequency cables - The carrier frequency cable net-
work consists of cables carrying 12-channel groups on each
pair. There are 128 km of carrier frequency cables, i.e.
894 km of pairs. Such cables provide short links between
tertiary transit and secondary exchanges.
(d)  Radio relay links - Radio relay links are equipped with
12/24, 60/120, 300, 960 and lO,800 telephone channels. The
frequency bands used are 400 MHz, 4,000 MHz and 7,000 M'Hz.
The total length of radio relay links is 3,360 km distributed
as follows according to the capacity of the systems:
Kilometers
12/24 channels                     539
60/120                             4 498
300    "                      1,820
960                             4 h52
1,800                              51
with the exception of 428 km of radio relay links of low
capacity of 12/24 channels, all the radio relay links are
on international routes and on trunk routes between tertiary
(main transit) exchanges and between tertiary and secondary
exchanges.
(e) Line transmission equipment - Depending on the type of links,
carrier frequency line equipment with maximum transmission
capacities of 12, 60, 120, 300, 960 or 1,260 telephcne chan-
nels are used.
Multiplex Transmission Equipment and Number of LD Circuits
9.        Terminal multiplex equipment for about 64% of the maximum trans-
mission capacity of the links is in use at present. According to inter-
national classification of the CCITT, telephone channels in carrier fre-
quency systems are grouped into transmission systems made of basic groups of
12 channels, supergroups of 60 chanrols (5 basic groups) and master groups
of 180 channels (3 supergroups).  In July 1969, there were 342 basic



ANNEX 6
g   of a pages
groups in service. This number should increase to about 490 in 1970 when
the orders which have been already placed for equipment up to practically
full capacity of the existing links would be completed. At the time of the
appraisal, the main interurban transit system interconnecting tertiary ex-
changes between themselves and with secondary exchanges consisted of 4,C60
LD circuits equipped for automatic STD or operator dialing service with
total circuit length of about 920,000 cm. Regional trunk networks between
secondary, primary and local exchanges consisted of 5,700 circuits, the total
length of these circuits being about 360,000 k1m. About 3,400 regional cir-
cuits were still manually operated and 1,700 were short-haul overhead cir-
cuits.
Trunk Switching System
10.       Switching facilities to interconnect local subscribers and LD net-
works are added to local exchange equipment at local and primary levels and
are grouped into principal and transit trunk exchanges at secondary and
tertiary levels of transmission and ci.rcuit interconnection. Switching
equipment for about 3,950 manual ID circuits (i.e. about 7,900 incoming and
outgoing terminal LD circuit units) are installed in about 2,300 exchanges.
Equipment for about 7,800 automatic and semi-automatic LD circuits for sub-
scribers or operator  dialing (i.e. about 15,600 incoming and outgoing
terminal LD circuit units) are installed in 571 interurban exchanges having
automatic trunk facilities. All tertiary transit exchanges except one (Tuzia)
and 57 of the 78 secondary exchanges of the mnain transit system have automatic
facilities; present equipment of these exchanges is for about 5,400 auto-
matic LD circuits and will be fully utilized in 1970. LD traffic is heavy
and much higher than planned at the time of installation of the present facil-
ities, principally in the main urban centers such as Belgrade, Zagreb,
Ljubljana, Rijeka, Sarajevo and Nis where daily congestion during busy hours
is three or four times what is usually observed in such kind of service.
11.       Signalling system is not uniform within the networks depending on
types and date of installation of local and LD switching equipment and also
due to the rapid technological evolution which has entailed many changes in
this field over recent years. The CYPTT has now standardized the system
to be used in the networks which will be of the so-called '1MFC-Bernet' type
as adopted in Berne in 1959 by the CCITT and by most European Adninistra-
tions for LD domestic and international automatic telephone traffic.  Change
and transfer of equipment are now gradually made when tertiary and secondary
exuchanges are extended and replaced equipment is redistributed for use in
,ower 'Level trunk excharges.  This is a delicate operation in an operating
network which woulcl only be completed under the present seven-year eq)ansion
progran.
Telegraph and Telex
12.       At the end of 1968, there were 3,256 pUbilic telegraph offices.
Domestic telegraph circuits numbered 333 point-to-point connections of the
general telegraph service, 580 circuits used jointly by the general telegraph



A.NIEX 6
Page 6 of 8 pages
and telex services, and 196 circuits permanently leased to users;  interna-
tional circuits for same uses numbered 37, 178 and 14 respectively.  General
public telegraaph and telex subscribers' .ervices were provided for in 42
automatic and 8 manual switching centers using facilities cormon to both
services.  From 1966 to 196L3, the number of private telex cubscriberc in-
creased from 1,620 to 2,350, all autoratic but h. and the number of tele-
printer stations i.n telegraph centers or offices connected to the Gentex/
Telex switching cent.ers increased from 310 to 720, of which less than l_Y.0
were still tLanually interconnect;ed through operators.  During this period,
annual growth of inland and international telex traffic averaged 20%, and,
as general in the world, tLelegraph traffic was almost unchanged or increas-
ing very slmilCy.  Except in a few isolated offices, transmission equipment
used for telex and telegraph circuit.s is of modern voice frequency (VF)
division type for telegraphy; 2,400 such VT terminal units were used in
1968 which comnares with 1,002 in 1966.
13.       International telex subscribers7 traffic is handled semi-
automatically through operators in Belgrade and Zagreb over about 90 cir-
cuits in each city. Yearly traffic growth averaged 20% since 1965 which led
to serious congestion in traffic with all 20 countries directly connected
to Yugoslavia through which traffic for other countries is also routed.
Due to congestion, international telegraph traffic is so far not automatic
and uses point-to-point circuits including about 244 telegraph and telex IE
radio circuits wjith the USSR, the USA and a few other overseas countries.
The inclusion of Yugoslavia ir the automatic European Gentex network is
planned only for 1972 after most of the proposed expansion under the seven-
year program has been completed.
International Telephone
14.       International telephone traffic is mainly routed through circuits
in a coaxial cable wfith Austria (300 charnels presently equipped capacity) and
in medium capacity microwave linkswith Bulgaria (120 channels), Greece
(12 channels) and Rumania (120 channels). In addition, two modern HF
radio stations are providing 12 telephone circuits with the USSR, the USA
and a few other overseas countries. There are two international transit
telephone centers, in Belgrade and Zagreb, which have been categorized of
second (CT2) and third (CT3) order in the World Plan for Development of
Interregional and Intercontinental Traffic, adopted in 1967 in Mexico by
the joint CCITT-CCIR Plan Commission of the International Telecommunication
Union (ITU). In its CT2 capacity, Belgrade handles semi-automatic, auto-
matic, terminal and transit international telephone traffic; and Zagreb, as
CT3, deals with semi-automatic and automatic traffic between the Northern
Republics of Yugoslavia and three non distant European countries, Austria,
the Federal Republic of Germany and Italy.  ut the end of 1968, 220 inter-
national telephone circuits were oparated in Yugoslavia, of which 170 were
terminated in Belgrade, 50 in Zagreb, and 40 were between Yugoslavia and
Albania (2), Rumania (10), Bulgaria (12) and Hungary (16).  In addition,



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 8 pages
47 international transit circuits traversed the country, mostly providing
connection between eastern and western European countries, but also betweon
Greece and Northern Europe as well as some connections now being developed
between Europe and Asia Minor. For example, the land-based links between
Iran, Pakistan and Turkey with Europe traverse Yugoslavia.  This traditiornal
importance of Yugoslav international telecommnunications is due to the geo-
graphical situation of the country in Southern Europe and the Balkans and
also to the fact that Yugoslavia has seven bordering co-untries, of which
three are Western European and four Eastern European. Facilities have been
and are being developed accordingly. Recent agreements with Italy and
Hungary provide for the construction of coaxial cables with 300 channels
and 60 channels initial equipment respectively which are presently being
laid and should be operative in 1970.
Attachment: Chart 1 (page 8)
February 2, 1970



ANNEX 6
PAGE 8 OF 8 PAGES
CHART I
YUGOSLAVIA: LONG DISTANCE TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK
DIAGRAM OF LINKS BETWEEN INTERURBAN EXCHANGES
TC3
Tci ~~~~~T111TC2
TCI egT 
~~~~'-S|
'-.-     1    MAIN INTERURBAN
SC  **  SC2 AND TRANSIT SYSTEM
__S.>-'-   -    REGIONAL INTERURBAN
'SYSTEM
I       -_--
PCI                               PC2
LCI 0                               LC2
LC - LOCAL CENTER (TERMINAL)
PC - PRIMARY CENTER (NODAL)
SC - SECONDARY CENTER (PRINCIPAL OR ZONE)
TC - TERTIARY CENTER (MAIN TRANSIT)
REGULAR CONNECTION LINK
DIRECT LINK
AUXILIARY LINK
IBRD - 4598(R)



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 12 pages
YUGOSLAVIA
Modernization and Development Program
of Tugoslav Teleconmiunications Services (1969-1975)
General
1.        The Seven-Year Modernization and Development Program (1969-1975) of
the telecuxmunications services in Yugoslavia gives priority to the need for
urgently meeting present huge demand for new telephone lines and for elimi-
nating existing traffic problems in local and long distance (LD) services
by immediate construction of new efficient capacities. The Program also aims
at providing Yugoslavia with required facilities to satisfy demand for domestic
and transit international communications and to allow easy direct communica-
tion access of the country to America and Africa by participating in the
INTELSAT III satellite communications network over the Atlantic. The Bank-
financed Project, which is described in the following paragraphs No. 9 and
No. 10, is made of that part of the Program for the main transit and inter-
national systems of the LD networks to be executed 1970 through 197h.
2.        The Program has been planned and prepared in detail by the Develop-
ment and Planning Units of the PTEs and its preparation has been coordinated
by the Commissions of the CYPTT. It has been adopted by the Assembly of the
CYPTT and is supported by the Federal Government. Under the General Plan,
the CYPTT will coordinate its implementation. Under a recent decision of its
Azsembly, the CYPTT will also be the executing and supervisory agency for the
Bank-financed Project and for the portion of the PTEst regional networks
(see paragraphs no. 7 and no.8 thereafter) which is financed from the Postal
Savings Bank's credit.
3.        Planning of the proposed facilities is based on actual data and
experience covering existing facilities, present registered demand and observed
traffic. past development, and construction requirements. The projects have
been prepared and est imated by the qualified professional staff of the PTEs
and of the CYPTT. System planning, construction plans and specifications
are at an advanced stage of preparation. The execution of the Program is
satisfactorily underway principally concerning the projects of the local and
regional systems of the PTEs to be executed during the first two years.
1.        The attached Chart 1 shows actual (1961-1968) and projected (1969-
1975) growth and provisions of direct exchange lines (DEL) installed and
telephones in use, and number of unsatisfied applications for main telephone
lines in the registered waiting lists consolidated for all PTEs. Chart 2
shows the actual (1961-1968) arn projected (1969-1975) number of irstalled
DELs and telephone stations of all kinds in use, as well as corresponding
telephone densities and yearly growth rates in nurmber of DELs and telephones.
Local Telephone Sytems
5.        The Program covers the provision and installation of 1,090,000
new DELs in 650 automatic exchanges and the retirement of about 15,000
automatic and 25,000 manual DELs presently in service using obsolete facil-
ities. All installations will be based on the use of switching equipment
with crossbar switches of the types manufactured in Yugoslavia under license



ANINEX 7
Page 2 of 12 pages
from foreign manufacturers, i.e. presently L. M. Ericsson (Sweden) at
"Nikola Tezla industrija",Zagreb and Standard Electric (ITT-Sweden) at
"Iskra Industrija",Kranj.  These local factories are equipped to produce
the proposed exchanges as scheduled under the program. Local line networks,
which include about 10,000 km of new pipes for underground cab2es in ducts
and two million km of local cable pairs, and subscribers' installations are
planned in detail and installed by the PTRz.  Procurement of outside pIants
is also from local manufacturers, such as thie Svetozarevo telecomnunications
cable factory which,, since the last ten years, is a well-known exporter of
local telephone cables. Copper, which is an important component of these
cables, is nationally produced.
6.        A list of the existing and proposed number of installed DELs and
telephone sets in service, according to each PTE and secondary zones of
their areas as at December l196 and for the period 1969-1975 is given in
Table 1, attached to this Annex in pages 7 through 10.
Medium Distance Regional Networks of the PTEs
7.        Under the program, the medium distance links in aud between the
areas of neighboring PTEs for the interconnection between terminal, primary
and secondary interurban exchanges  will be planned and constructed at
regional level by the concerned PTEs.  Financing for these works would be
provided from PTEst own resources and, for larger works, under the loan
from the Postal Savings Bank which has been auvhorized by the Government.
8.        The following facilities would be provided under this part of the
Program:
(a) coaxial cables - 1,200 km of cables with coaxial conductors
of 2./9.5 m9 m and 0.9/3.2 mm diameter and capacities of
2, 4, 6 and 8 pairs;
(b) symmetrical pair cables - 8h0 kmi, mostly for short and medium
distance interconnection between terminal transmission centers
in secondary and primary exchanges;
(c) radio relay systems of medium (120 channels VHF) and low
capacities (12, 24 channels, UHF), mostly redistributed from
existing systems (about 1,000 km) and new (60 km);
(d) overhead lines providing additional 20,000 km open wire
circuit-pairs;
(e) transmission and carrier telephone equipment for above new
facilities and for installation in secondary exchanges to
interwork with tertiary transit exchanges; multiplex and
associated equipment for about 21,500 terminal channel units
would be provided.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 12 pages
f)  LD switching equipment and junction units for about 21,000
terminal circuits in local, primary and secondary interurban
exchanges for the interconnection at regional level of these
exchanges and with the main transit network.
Main Transit and International Systems
9.        This part of the program represents the Bank-financed Project.
It provides for LD interconnection between main transit (tertiary) centers
and between secondary and tertiary centers through which the long-distance
and international traffic are routed with the required quality under the
General Plan (see organization diagram of the LD network in Annex 6, Chart
I). To allow for the general interconnection of any two telephones of the
network, transit circuits require high quality and stability and adequate
interconnection. To this effect and for the good flexibility and economy
of the systems, transit traffic is concentrated through secondary inter-
urban exchanges into main trunk routes between the 17 principal transit
exchanges of the network which are fully interconnected between themselves.
International traffic is terminated and originated at the Belgrade and
Zagreb international transit centers which, according to traffic volume
and kind, have been internationally classified in second (CT2) and third
(CT3) categories, respectively under the ITU/CCITT World Plan adopted in
Mexico in 1967. Facilities for international traffic are superimposed on
dcmestic facilities inside the country and include additional links, such
as cables and microwave links, for lar>d-based interconnection at the border
with neighboring foreign networks, or are made of special installations
such as HF radio communications or satellite ground stations for inter-
continental systems. In a. few cases, equipment for one television trans-
mission channel, using same technique than multiplex telephone and
_tel6graph broad band radio channel will be installed together with FPT
transrmission QquiXent.
10.       A description of the  facilities covered under the project
follows:
a)  International telephone exchanges in Belgrade and Zagreb
:espectively for 1,200 and 400 circuit terminations and
four-wire switching, using European 'lqFC-Berne" signaling
system;
b)  Intcrnational telex and telegraph exchanges in Belgrade and
Zagreb lor 600 and 500 Gentex/Telex circuits respectively;
c)  Satellite ground station with 30m diameter antenna to
operate with the EJTLLSAT satellites over the Atlantic
and provide intercontinental communications with America
and Africa, and very long distance continental links with
Northern Europe. The station is to be installed near
Titovo Uzice, about 300 km from Belgrade in the south
central part of Yugoslavia;



ArNEx 7
age 4 of 12 pages
d)  High capacity radio relay links over the follow:ing princ-ci pal
and branching links totaling about 2,900 km route length
as follows:
Length in r
- Bitola-'io3lum (to Greece)                      50
- Belgradc-Zlatibor-Sar^ajevo wit.'h snurs
for ¶P:v-t0-Lrz. ice ar-nd cateliitc ,-round
OU, -                                          450
- Eelg,rade-Nu Vi i  acia                          10
- .arajevo-Z',areb with separate link: for
Sarajevo-3ac.,a Luka, 3anja Luka-Zagreb
and Sarajevo-Tu.la                             L50
- Zagreb -Ljubljana-Miaribor -Austri-an border   280
- Zagreh-Split-Liijeka-Ljub1.jana-ilr9ste
(and Italy)                                    600
- Zagreb-Osijek                                  250
- Split-Mostar-Titograd                          ho0
- Kraljevo- Crni-Jastrebac-Nis                   180
- Dubrovnik -Titograd                            170
Total                     2,900
These microwave links are planned in the 7,000 MHz band and
would have maxim-am transmission capacities of 960 and 1,800
channels depending on the route (see May 3 for details).
Trunking of main routes and existing systems provides even
higher capacities in some sections; also equipment for
transmissions of a television channel such as between Dubrovnik
and Titograd and at Bitola to and from Greece, would be
added in a few cases.
e)  Multiplex carrier and transmission equipment in transmission
stations at the 17 main transit exchanges: Belgrade, Zagreb,
Ljubljana, Sarajevo, Skoplje, Novi Sad, Rijeka, Nis, Split,
Titograd, Pristina, Titovo Uzice, Mostar, Banja Luka, Osijek,
Kragujevac and Tuzla and at the principal zone exchanges
of these PTEs. Equipment for 30,000 terminal channel units
for circuits of the main microwave and coaxial cable trunk
system, together with line and basic carrier generating,
protection, and routing as well as transmission measuring
equipment, would be provided for and installed in these
centers and in interworking transmission centers of the LD
network.
f)  Coaxial cable Titograd-Titovo Uzice (245 km) with line equip-
meiit, gas cotrol  remote supervision and repeater equipment,
to be laid in cabie ducts along the Bank-financed railroad
on the same route.
g)  Line equipment for coaxial cables between secondary and ter-
tiary exchanges gas control, remote supervision and repeater
equipment as foilows:



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 12 pages
Length in Km
- Cable Subotica-Hungarian border                 30
- Kraljevo-Titovo Uzice                          100
- Kraljevo-Pristina                              190
- Novi Sad-Osijek                                125
- Zagreb-Karlovac-Rijeka                         200
- Zagreb-Sljeme                                   15
- Banja Luka-Petricevac                            5
- Uzice-Orlovac                                    5
- Line and Control equipment for two
existing coaxial routes Sarajevo-Mostar
and Zagreb Ljubljana                           480
Total                            1,150
h) Transit telephone exchanges equipped for automatic LD inter-
connection of transit circuits and STM dialing, using uniform
new CCITT 'W4C-Bernell signaling system and compatible with
other existing systems at national level in 17 main transit
exchanges where four-wire switching facilities for 30,000
LD transit circuits will be provided.
i)  Other miscellaneous works and common equipment for the construc-
tion of the project, for operation arid maintenance of the
facilities and for re-distribution and re-use of existing
facilities.
j)  Engineering and expert services - Principalliy for the planning,
engineering and construction of the satellite ground station
for which consultant services from CaISAT (JSA) are used. Also
for miscellaneous expert and advisory services which would be
required for the operatinn and maintenance ofthe complex
systems of the Project and for planning future development.
Domestic Telegraph and Telex
11.       The program includes switching equipment for 7,000 local Telex/
Gentex auatomatic connections and for 2,200 trunk telegraph circuits to be
used in the domestic telegraph and telex systems. Trunk telegraph circuits
will be provided by additonal 2,300 voice frequency (VF) telegraph channels
routed through the main transit and regional networks.  Telegraph offices and
the public telegraph service in general will be mocgrnized to increase quality
and efficiency; as a result, Yugoslavia is expected to be integrated within
the European Gentex Network in 1971.
Other Developments and Works
12.       The program also includes land acquisitions and buildings for all
technical installations of the local and long distance networks as well as
general services and administration headquarters. Cable duct and channel
works are an important item due to the required reorganization, renewal
and extension of the local cable systems in the main cities where these
systems are often old or obsolete; about 11,000 km of such ducts are nlanned
over the period of this program for almost two million km subscribersS
pairs. In addition, all kinds of existing facilities will be redistributed



AIfEX 7
Page e of 12 pages
and improved; common sermices, stores, ,workshop, transport and construc-
tion means .will be modernized and developed to increase efficiency in
operation and service.  Tra: ni.ng schenes,  research and laboratory facil-
ities, statis tical =-dl adrm.nistrative services, studies and developnment
planning will aLso be considerably developed under the program.
Attachments:  Table I (Pages 7 through 10);  Charts I and II.
February 2, 1970



Li. >- E OF  '1L XI'1'LNG LAN  PROPOSED NuM3ER oF INSTALLED DLRECT EXCHANME LLWES (DELs)
.m 3 _  :  ._iJLx. _r.,s.wS; <L:K A32)0 *c .1' 1i2 _i: _o; AD L3"C0I.Af' Z'mjNZS AS AT DECECI-Mi3R !Q
iA) ET. 'fIiJ -i S.I:l 10U9 - 1Q-75
Actual                             Proposed
M!o.   PlTl IEnterprises   1960 Situation            Net Increase from          1975 Oituation           I n d i c e s
and Secondary         _                -      _1969 to 1975 _7 *        --
Zones          Connec-    Tele-          Connec-    Telephone    Connec-   Telephone        7 : 3         8
tions(DEL  phone sets    tions DEL) sets           ti.ons(DEL)sets
_~~~~~ I                                                                                                           10
1.   BEOGRAD              70,0KQo    102,00C      232,723      368,080      302,720   470,050          430.3         437.6
Sabac            2,000        3,000        5,520        7,528        7,520    10,528         376.0          350.9
'Vaijevo         2,000        3,000        6,160        8,424        8,160    11,424          140.0         380.8
Pozarevac        2,4.000                                8040      _8600    12.040                0           1-0
76,500     112,000       250,500     392,072      327,000   504,072          425.8         429.6
2.   PANCEVO              5,OC)        7,000       10,240       14,336        15,240    21,336         305.0         304.8
3.   KRAGUJ.,EAC          5,000        7,000        9,o4o       15,260        14,840    22,260         296.8         318.0
4.  SEMTUZAREVO           3,000        4,500         6, 860      9,332         9,580    13,832         329.3         307.4
5.   KRAIJEVO              2,500       4,000         5,200       6,760         7,700   -10,780         305.0         269.5
6.   KRu3EVAC             2,500        4,00(        5,760        7,592         8,2t20    11,592        331.2         2d9.8
7.  TITOVO UZICE           2,000       3,000        5,5b0        5,370         7,580    11,370         379.0         379.0
Prijepolje       1.00C   1 ,30O            1.540        2,056        2,540      3             254.0         237.0
3,000       4,500         7,120      10,426        10,120    14,926         337.3         331.7
b.   OACAK                4,000        6,Ou0         6,060       8,054        10,060    14,064         251.5         234.7
9.   NIS                 10,00      15,000        32,220      4d,330        42,220    63,330         422.2         422.2
Leskovac         3,000        4,500        6,340        5,576        9,340    13,076          311.3         290.6
VranJe           1,50U        2,000        7,800       11,020        9,300    13,020          620.0         651.0
Pirot            1,000        1,50        5,620        7,768        6,620      9,268         662.0         617.8   CD
Zajecar          2,500       4,000        11ioo       14,900       13,500    18,900          540.0         42      < -_
10,000      27,000        62,900D     90,594        50,980   117,5-4         449.9         435.5
HtE



1       2                3                                   6            7         U
10. P.LT.LfA            6,000      9,000         11,bIO    17,103        17,400    26,1-0)        290.0        250.0
PeC             1,000     L,500          4.600      6,340        5,600     7,84          5)6o.D       522.7
7,00U    10,500         1-,300     23,440       23,000    33,940         328.6        323.4
11. ITOVI SAD          15,300    22,000          45,1 i0    72,770       63, llO    94,770        421.2       l430.3
12. SLtMBOR             2,500      4,000          7,900     10,560       10,400    14,560         416.G        36.0
13. SUBO±IUA            5,000      7,000         14,600     20,440       19,600    27,440         392.0        392.0
14. ZR1ENJAN1N          5,000      7,000         13,260     16,564       15,260    15,564         365.2        36552
15. SRE4.MrrROVICA      3,000      4,500          7,280      9,892       10,2W0   14,392          342.7        319.5
16. ZAGREB             45,000     70,000        136,800    212,511      181, 00   272,511         405.8        396.7
Zabok           1,000     1,500          1,060      1,384        2,060     2,884         206.0        192.2
Sisak           3,000     4*56V          6,300      8,520        9,300    13,O20         310.0         289.3
Kutina          1,000     L0             3,500    -480           4,500     6,D0          450.0         420.0
50,000    77,500        147,660    227,215      197,660   304,715         397.5        387.5
17. KARLWVAC            5,000      6,000          3,580     11,012       13,550    19,012         271.6        237.7
Gospic          SL,0 13500               '9,20 2L420             2t@°°   _3920            280.0        261.3
6,000     9,500         10,350     13,432       16,300    22,932         273.0        241.4
15. SLAVON. BROD        3,000      4,500          5,400      7,260        8,400    11,760         280.0        261.3
19. BJELOVAR            2,500      4,000          6,490      8,586        8,990    12,5b6         359.6        314.6
Virovitica      1.500      2  000        2,900      4,160        4,400     6,160          293.3        308.0
4,000     6,000          9,390     12,746       13,390    15,746         334.7         312.4
20. VARAZDIN            3,000      5,000          7,000      9,000       10,000    14,000         333.3        280.0
21. OSLIEK              8,000     12,000         19,020     28,530       27,020    40,530         337.7        337.7  v
Vinkovci        2,000     3,000         10,580     14,612       12,550    17,612         629.0         587-0 aQ
10,000    15,000         29,600     43,142       39,600    55,142         396.0        387.6  0
frt:



1 - 2              3                  ___________      6            7                         9             10
22. HIJEKA               1,'003     22,000        34,900     51,350       40,900    73,350          349.2         333.4
Pula             2,ODn      3,0300        3,36      11,05l 4     10,060    14,064,         503.0         469.4
Pazi n             5300     2,000         2,630      3,740        4,100      5,740         273.3         287.0
17,530     27,000        45,560     66,174       63,060    939174          360.3         345.0
23.  SPLTT                $7,DJi    124,000       25,690      42,535      37s690    56,535          418.8         403.8
24. ZADAP.                2,500      4,000         5,300      6,920         7,800   -10,920         312.0         273.0
25. SIBEN IK              2,000      3,000         4,150      5,610         6,150     8,610          307.5        287.0
26. DUBROVNIK             3,000      4,.500        6,520      8,828         9,520    13,328         317-3         296.1
27.  LJUB1JANA (TRBOVLJE)200,O00    26,000        423240    70s010         62,340    96s010         306.0        325.8
28. NOVO VIE3-iO          2,50(      3,500         3,520      4,928         6,020     8,428          240.8        240.8
29. KOPER                 2,500      3,500          4,460     6,552         7,180    10,052          287.2        287.2
posto4na         11000                    1,540      2,056         23,540   .2 6            2542.0*
3,500      5,00W         6,000      8,608         9,720    13,608         277.7         272.2
30. NOVA G0hIICA          2,000      3,000         4,700       6,360        6,700     9,380          335.0        312.7
31. KRANJ                 5,000      7,000        11,240     15,736        16,240    22,736          324.8        324.8
32. CEFJE                 3,030      4,000         8,640      12,296       11,640    16,296          388.0         407.4
3j. RARL3OB               7,0OO     10,000        15,020      20, 28       22,020    30.826          314.6         306d3
34. MUcKA SOBUTA          1,OO0      1,500         2,800       3,820        3,800     5,320          380.0         354.7
35. SARAJEVu             16,000     22,000        49,540      77,310       65,540    99,310          422.1        422.1
Gorazde          j-2        2,000         3,750             5.320            7.392          352.0   369.6
17,500     24,000        53,320     82,702        70,820   106,702         2416.1        418.1  N-
0
Ii 



1       2                         L___7___9_10
36. ZlI'TICA         L,000      6,000         7,650     10,310      11,655   16,310         291.2       271.8
37. TUZLA              4,000     6,000        11,000     16,500      15,300   22,500         375.0       375.0
Brcko            1,500     2,000        3,030      4,342        4,530    6,342        302.0        317.1
Doboj            2,000     3L200        4.040      5,456       6,040    8,456         302.0        281.9
7,500    11,000       15,070     26,295       25,570   37,298        3410.9       339.0
3d. BANJA LUKA         4,000     6,000         9,95o     14,970      13,980   20,970         349.5       349.5
Prijedor         1,500     2,000        3,300      4,720       4,5o0    6,720         320.0        336.0
Bihac            1,500     2,000        3,60u      5,140       5,100     7,140        340.0        357.0
Jajce            1,000     2.000        2,700      3160         3,700    5,10        370.0        22-Q
5,000    12,000       19,550     2d,010       27,550   40,010        344.7        333.4
39. IIUSIAR            4,000     6,0%U         5, 90     13,350      12,900   19,300         322.5       322.5
I'rebinje         600      1,000        1,430      1,542        2,030    2,542        33d.3        254.2
Livno             400                     740     _596                   1,596        285.0        12:t
5,000     5, 00       11,070     15,7db       16,070   23,75d        321.4        297.3
40. SKOPLJE           16,000    24,500        43,2d0     64,420      59, 25'0   d,920        370.5       362.9
Tetovo           1,000     1,500        2,500      3,400        3,500    4,900        350.0        326.6
Ohirid           1,500     2,000        2,500      4,020        4,300    6,020        256.6        301.0
Kicevo           1,000     1,500        1,100      1,440        2,100    2,940         210.0       196.0
Titov Veles      2,000     3,000        2,400      3,720        4,800    6,720        2140.0       22-4.0
Bitola           2,500      4,0OO       7,00U      9,300        9,500   13,300        380.0        332.5
Stip             3.000     4,500        5,000      6,700        5J,000   1i200         266.7       c4t.9
27,000    41,0o0       64,4o0     93,000       91,40   134,000        330.3        326.8
41. TITOGRAD           5,000      7,500        9,500     11,250      l14', 5C    21,750     290.0        290.0
Cetinje          2,000     3,000        5,280      7,192        7,25J)  10,192        364.0        339.7
Niksic           1,500     2,000        2,400       3,460       3,900    5,460         260.0       273.0
Bijelo Polje     1,500     2,500)       2,700      3.3 0        4,200    5,550        280.0        235.2
100.0%    15.000       19,S0      2b,252     h          43,2d2        298.8        26ts.5 °
T 0 1 A L :    390,000   550,000    1 06o.000   1,550,000   1,450,000 2 LJ            32
3224.00                                          52-55~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX 7
PAGE 11 OF 12 PAGES
CHART 1
YUGOSLAVIA - TELECOMMUNICATIONS
TELEPHONE GROWTH, DEMAND AND PROVISIONS, 1961-1975
(THOUSANDS OF TELEPHONES)
2,200                 _ I      I   I          I                   I         I    2,200
2,000                      ---                                                    2, 000
1, 800                                                                            I -  t1800
1,6000                                                           /I,0
1,400                                    --                           1           1,400
NUMSER vr TELEPHONES |//
18200                                                                            1__100
WAITING LIST OF                                               l
|TELEPHONE APPLICATIONS                            .I
600'-                                                                           600'7 /">-   O
I
400                 1                                       --f-,400
_-   NUMLER OF INSTALLED TELEPHONE
EXCHANGE LINES(DELs)
200                                                                            ,2 00
0                                                          I   -A     0 I_  I _
1961 '62  '63  '64  '65  '66  '67  '68  '69  '70  '71 '72  '73  '74  '75  '76
<,0    -  -  ACTUAL  _   _-                         PROJECTED                0
IBRD - 4603(R)



YUGOSLAVIA - TELECOMMUNICATIONS
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED NUMBER OF DIRECT TELEPHONE EXCHANGE LINES AND
TELEPHONES IN SERVICE, 1961-1975
(THOUSANDS OF TELEPHONES)
2,200                                                                                                                                                              -- -        2,200
2,000                                              _                                  _        ___                              _ ____-_-_ _  _ __ -                        - 2,000
.!   Number of installed direct                                                                                                                     N
1,800              El   telephone exchange lines ( D.E.L.)                                                                           ---\
g9Number of telephone statioiis                                                                                                                       :
alof al kinds in service                                                                                                                             1, 00
1,200                                                                         __                                                                                               1,200
1,000                                                                       -_            ': -                            -                                     -              1,000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _-                                                                                                                              - 6_, . 0 0
800                                                                               x_ _           -----N-                                                        -         -00
400                                                                                                                                                                       -400
1961      1962       1963       1964       1965       1966       1967        1968       1969      1970        l9OT       1 0'2      ;973       I974   ~975
ANNUAL RATE DO.CL    12,4     11.3        5.5       10,4        11.2      10.6        8.2        79    j  16.0         19,0      2      -.0  2      -.7    -2i0    210       20,2
O F   G R O W TH   T            9         6.2          .                -                         7          6       -   - -0  2-   .        2   -                  2-0       2   2
(PERCENT)  rEL.     6.5        9.7        6.2       14.8       12.1        9.1       19         18.6    116.7          8.0       21.0       22.0       22.5       22 0        21o4
TELEPHONE  DE.L.    1.1        1.2                   1.4        1.5        ..7        1.8        1.9        2.3        2.7        3.3        3.9        4.7        5,7        6.8                 >
DENSITY (per                                                                                     --
DESIY pe_.__ __I__ ____  __.__ __    _z.                            ___ .-__ _     _          _                                     _.___                     __ __       ______ _Z
too inab4bt4nt4) ruzL.  1.4  1.           1.6        19         2.1        2.          .5  . 634 i 4,0                            4.7    , 5.7          7 o        8.5   ,  I .1I i          3  
ACTUAL              -                            <                              PROJECTED
(SEVEN-YEAR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM)
IBRD - 4604. R.n



YUGOSLAVIA: TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE OF THE MAIN TRUNK AND INTERNATIONAL SYSTEMS FROM 1970-1974
Y_o                           17                                        1971                                     1972                                      1973                                     1974
NM OPSYSTEM  ANl
EDIMENT                                                                      O MF                                                  M   AAMFJA JFAMA                                                                                            N
-TINTERNATI ONAL TELErAR-                                                                                                             7
EXCI,I.ANOE   BELGRADE AN       ~     DRNc
3 SATELLITE EAST, STATION,T-----.-*----I- 
~~A.I-  ~~~~.L.Y 1I.Ko ST'
CARRIER FREQVENCY
5.STATIONS IN TRANSIT                    POI_________
ICOAXIAL CABLE!.-
TIT.ovouzICE- TITCOORAD.
f - i                                                                -                   -  -  - -  -  - -  -  - -I
7  EThER COASIAL CARET                                                                                                                                                      .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
8 TRANSIT TELEPHONE                    o.r¶
2. In-itti-n and EI#IiO  f tender
I. Sire EIIeEtIoS, opropdo~~~~~~~~~~~~ion. ~3. Eoo1-al-o of zed-r .nd OS,R f. os f-vorble lpRde
II.IVTrO   f t-rdr co,d osooo  f -osrrT.                                                                                 5    ior of~ eqipert
IV. CLII SR9iORnTiO4 OETNO ood I.vlsi:EoI OECtptaTOR.                                          ~~~6. IoIIoiO
;V. 0,11 -e  -iN  -4 -d                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7. MlaNar=lretl cod ICES; -ehlo  AwtCO- of tf. sy'rer
-od p.ttiog Ie,eo--noiotio aqnipr.-t into op-ti-n
,ORD-OT'T.2R






iUGOSLAVIA  - TE__C V.'iICA Z
Estimated Costs of the Seven-Year Development Program (1969-1975)
(in nilWdinars)
Items                 Total of Seven-Year Program       -1969             ----1970-----    ---1971               ---1972-----   - 1973---           ---1 --   ----1975----
____                          Local  Foreign      Local  Foreycr;    Local  Foreign     Local Foreign    Local Freign   Lcal freign   Local Foreign
1. Local telsphone erchange
aquient                     1,512.6    12.5   1,525.1        121.5    1.0       166.C    2.0        175.9    2.0       206.1   2.0      2i11.5   2.0      25D.1   2.0    314.5   1.5
2. Subscriberal outside plant     1,264t.0    5.C   1,269.0        98.2    0.5        255.7    1.5        157.7    1.5      150.6   0.5       249.6   0.5      166.9   0.5    185.3       -
3. Regional networks of the
PlB                           639.1    16 3     655.h       164.5    2.3       134W.6    6.0       113.2    h.C       104.1    2.C      95.3   2.0         2.1             25.3    -
4. Main tran)it and Jnternatioral
syt                           375.C   812.5   1,187.5          -       _         42.3   81.3         82.5  187.5       110.8  270.0      81.h  218.7       58.o  55.0       -      -
5. Doeatic telegraph and telex      1S2.5    22.5      235.0       29.1    3.0         36.6    5.0         34.1    4.5       36.1   4.0        25.1   3.0         7.1   2.0    4U.1   1.0
6. Building  and civil works        863.0     6.2      869.2       1.0.2    1.0       219.4    1.2        125.4    1.2       120.6   1.0      215.7   1.0        70.0   o.a       71.7   0.4
7. MisaeUamoua works and
equipmet, traport,
research                      136.e    25.C      163.8        22.5    2.0        56.h    4.0          8.0    5.0         9.7   4. 0        .0    j.0        7.6   It.0      23.6   2.0
7otal                       L~,975,C   900.C   5.675.C       576.C    9.8       911.0  101.0        696.0  205.7       738.0 283.5      822.6  231.2      56z.1  63.9    668.5    .9
Total for each year                                              585.8             1,012.0              902.5            1,021.5          1,053.8             626.C            6T3.4
1/ Th-s itm representz  the Bank-financed pro4ect for which smrnnary annual construction coSts are given in page 2.
Jamnary 28, 1970



YLR3IAVIAI -  I        ICATIOS
Fatimated Costs of the Project for Main Transit and Intem ational Systans (1970-1973)
(in million dinars)
1970-1973                  1970                  1971                   1972                    1973                     1914
Iteim                          Local  Foreigi  Total       Loa_                 Local  ForeigI        Local      0crein  al Il
A. Financed by IBHD
1.  International telephone and
telegraph exchanges in
Belgrade and Zagreb                17.5     50.0  67.5         0.9        8.0       3.0       8.0          7.8        19.3        L..0         7.5         1.8         7.2
2. Satellite ground station            15.0    35.0  50.0          2.0         -        3.0       7.n          8,0        20.0        7.0          8.0            -          _
3. R4dio relay syateus                 85.0    122.0  207.5       10.0       20.0     3Th0       30.0         cJ5,0       40.0       10.5         :5.8          9.5       16.7
4. Mdltiplex carrier equipment
in 17 tranaisism stations          33.o    218.7  252.5        1.0       4O.0       6.0      45.0         12.0        62.0       11.0         65.c 03                  6.7
5. Coaxial cable Titovo Uzice-
Titogrud amd line and control
equipualt for coaxial cables       63.7     31.3  115.0        6.4        5.1      17.0      11.4         ?8.C         7.2       1;.5          3.9        1L.3         3.7
6. Other works and contingencies        7.5      2.5  50.0         0.5        0.7       1.      _c.)           1.0        11.5         2.9        13.2          2.1      fl.o
Sub-total A                24.    500.0  742.5          20.8      73.8       60.0     107.5        82.3        260.0       47.s        117 .           5 5
B. Financed by Others
7. Transit telephone exchanges
in 17 main cities                  57.5    275.0  332.5        1.0        5.0      14.0      70.0         20.0       100.0       16.c         95.3         6.5         4-7
8. Other works and contingencies       75.0     37.5  122.5        20.5       2.5       8.5       10.0         8.5        10.0        17.5        1o.0         20.0        5.0
Sub-total B                132.5   312.5  4k5.0         21.5       7.5       22.5      80.0        28.5        110.0       37.5        110.02  j                 9-7
Total Costs A & B           375.o    e1.  282.5         42.3      81.3       82.5     187.5        110.8       270.0       01.4    718.7            _           55.
January 28, 1970



u'5.S:  55''    CS'S?  'EL5       It'      55'7- s  I 5!'"   5555   II5        55S    0        555I0Q.  5.'                      '5"                                            5 <0                              2 <                                     s'"-           -'IC<I'I-Is-s'5 Io-                Cs      CIs    IS       ""IC'    T5       ss-     sa 5<             "         ---'S 5'54
55              505     55~~~~~~I  55L5              0      0                                                                                                                                                '  5          ,'                                            I -    C  I               C:      I5               IL       <      '                     5           6               950IS 5
-   -          -        -      SW'   SW'    Er~~~~~ -        W    o01R       E5 Two         05' 5' - II.                05W         Fr    ' 555   I"    CI                        T    1555.   55                -             '               5.5S                              5! S!            5s     S'S      ''        S    SS       i- I55"           ss ">          'e
zoo    r-        Er'       =      i 555     im-~       5        T    Set        0555"  rlT               NW 555"               - 5C"--l95  5    :'          Tr=s.    "'C      lT    lW77   sS"        55C        <-a             5se's>                   --~  5''         W Es           55        55        "      S' r7'S   SC_S    95             STe     55      550      <
seS            '5       55      55'!      55"In    ws'       55 w   5555T   555F0      S55    55       Se'S     a-s      c':       5'     S's       e'      <       05     '55        555IF'    ISi          'S'S     555       CS'     S''C   iCe      :5---    '-   5''        5' 5C:'CC           1-  5''    CS'   5'S    pS'            7755'   IF'!    CC''    Cs-S-  5555    "Fa  s-s~5
W55    5'S       71      50'7       O'      S5       555- 555          so         5    S'       556 -w    555    s55       55!     Or      5' SS            C' "-,',          :5's'5<C    5SS!   SC'7-  =      sC       ss       55      ''      "'55    55"   55         7505     7555's           S'      55"- r-   55     5'       S'      555    9"'    SC'S   5905    S555C5,3 'S
U5Ta-  El" EEl' UT"       E    U5        woo'wr   Tl"    1W   Fr                    El"   15e       T"  01"    r7            OTT       TOT    UT        I'S" T-'    5-s!-55S              59'S-  -'s-s' 1se-                       :55Tsee 55-s-Is-s                 WIICI"'             r'  s5s -'S    55e .'','5'0    5'55!:55-
-nOT   wr wr    yr  r     rr        w       Er    rr         o¶r   WI-   TOT    5'!   lOT    ~'s                 *    5"!       55        055    OS        .ss'0   555    eSs    55'!       55'S 0I            <C 5IC..             -     -    0<     550       Or!   555        55'!    555      Si'    55O    55" -             5".5..    ...<SI
Rr-            Se       rs      S'         5        5        5S     05        5''      5's 05          50        55 55             5--5           S'        5S5SC          5<         SS     5.      55      5'S      5'!      5'        CS     5'        5       5"     SS     5'S        5s75!            S       5S     59       05      5'       5     s-        55 505         s-e-.                             55,5
~~~~1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          us'  r s~~~~~I  ItR.  I  -  1
555555 wO       Oses      5's       O'!     55        M'S?   05555   055*5    5555   55'09    9555Tss- 7-    55SS 5555      E'        S'''         505555            .55     5955   oOer  Cs55    55.             5     see      55<   59<5    <'5    .'55=waS    59.-             55'.05'w        5955    0555    55'    595 sesr5S    55                    5''005         5-
r~,  T  "s"     n-" zfl-        ~'       in"   on        0001"        r   o r   r           FO' 0555"          455 "           5'!    555       UT'  555         lOT   Sri5T I                      5W' 55'         59      55"IIC-C'    ess-s-gaI6-T   ,e!s                            o-sUT"    0"I5'S1                 TT   E '-WI'  Tl-    I!-ir-
55's  55  5.0  50  se'S  0'  OrS 55'S!    5'S!    250555  9'S  S5''   55'S? 55'5    50    .e's    55''    55g    S55          5'!   555   55-se      se-s     5'       '0'S     Oa    55'       s--S    51    SoS       5505555'S'                05       55's    ~s       se's   95'S    .'S    SS'WIE'S    5'S'   rO
55555!  55!'    9'SS  .55    50  555  we    fl',    559  555    Se'!   Les  OS'5  550  se.    a" SC'!'es'S        Ss-S    SIs       5555 S"'e S!'555S'               5555     Se-s    550   .cs        use      S's: 05%: sot             5.5   55.5      S's     i'S      555    5'S    5'S!    505        555    555   555    55550
.5551  55       59      .X       50       505      005 05f5'S'5              5SS 555         555       550e 05!          55    5'S5IT555                  5555 'SO           50 S''(eS 50'                   OeT5s              eS    5 '0   '''CS.. 55~  5555    -SSS          5'-'S             55       55     5'5      aes IS          "*       ss      o      O', .'
WE                                                      ElOr SW    s-s    se    ~                   S'    T"' V '             -w   see1      ...          . .      ... 1F   050'T.lOT                      O" 37   !W            'l" 05'l'I'1lW                    151"1W' 0W    F IT                          O     '       1W'77" o'! 5-                    FT55
55':  555  505    9'S  5'!5 555    55'.   SSTS  559 559  95'S  555   555  55  50  eIS   955  505 555      555    555   555S!SC'            5S's    s's!        s-r '    OCO    5'S? 5955             55''    599   5515        5555     55'     SSSS    ''S    eeS        's      5'5    059    55S'   5555                        55






ANNEX 11
YUGOSIAV PTT
Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheets of all PTT Enterprises
as of December 31, 1966 through 1968
(in million dinars)
1966          1967           1968
ASSETS
Fixed assets
Fixed assets in operation                 2,224         2,414          2,660
Less depreciation                         872           962          1 080
Net fixed assets in operation            1-,352         Ii 
Work in progress                            271           285            341
Total net fixed assets           1,623          1,737          1,921
Current assets
Cash and banks                              256           274            357
Subscribers accounts receivables             70             90           113
Advance payments to suppliers                 5              5             7
Inventories                                  66            79             90
Total current assets               397            448            567
Loans and credits to other enterprises         89             66            98
Investments financed from Joint Con-
sumption Fund                               131           167            198
Total assets                     2 240          2418           2784
LIABILITIES
Equity
Original Government contributions and
retained earnings (Poslovni Fund)      1,519          1,655          1,872
Reserve                                       8             26            51
Total equity                     1,527          1,681          1,923
Long-term loans                               367            420           475
Current liabilities
Current maturities                           30            40             48
Bank loans (below I year's duration)         12             1              _
Suppliers' and contractors' bills            14            28             43
Other current liabilities                  159             81             97
Total current liabilities          215            150            188
Joint Consumption Fund                                      167            198
Total liabilities                2,240          2  18          2784
Debt equity ratio                           19:81         20:80          20:80
November 18, 1969



ANNEX 12
YUGOSLAV PTT
Pro Forma Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement of all PTT Enterprises
for the Years Ending December 31 1266 through 1968
(in million dinarE)
1966      1967       1968
r(EVEiS '
Operating revenues from telecommunications             684        762        917
Other revenues from telecommunications                   70                   72
Total revenues from telecommunications            754        837        989
Operating revenues from postal. services                355       38         '468
Other revenues from. postal services                     31        77         83
Total revenues from postal services               386        455        551
l,onsolida-,ed revenues of Yugoslav PTT enterprises  ',140      1,292      1,5aO
EXPENDITURES /
Onerating expenses tele.C--ununicatiocis                464       530        634
-rzrating expenses postal service-                      53        548        608
lIet income before interest from telec.mwiunications   290        307        355
'iet, income before interest from postal services       (67)      (93)       (57)
.let inzome before interest PTT                        223        214        °98
Int,erest  telecommunications                            16        23         2L
Interost  postal services                                 2         1          1
Net profit telecommunications                           274       284        331
Jet. loss  postal services                             (69)       (9h)       (58)
Net profit PTT                                          205       190        273
i'let fixed assets in operation (average)            1,285      1,h02      1,516
Rat- of return PTT operations                           17%        15%        20%
Onerating ratio PTT operations                           80        83         81
/1 In this statement, payments to Governments (Republics, Municipalities,
Skoplje) are treated as expenditures.
November 1d, 1969



ANNEX 13
YUGOSIAV PTT
Pro Forma Consolidated Sources and Uses of Funds Statement
of all PTT Enterprises for the Years Eniding December 31, 1967 and 1968
(in million dinars)
1967          1968
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net income before interest                         214           298
Depreciation                                        90           118
Total internal cash generation             304            416
Borrowings                                            83             95
Increase (decrease) in current liabilities           X6)             38
Total sources                                             549
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital construction                               204            302
Interest                                            24             25
Amortization                                        30            40
Total debt service                          54             65
Increase in cash                                   18              83
Increase in other current assets                    33             36
Credits to other enterprises                       (23)            32
Investments of Joint Consumption Fund               36             31
Total applications                         322            549
Debt service coverage (internal cash
generation)               5.6            6.5
November 18, 1969



AN 14h
YUQOSLAV PTT
Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet of Postal Cperations as of
December 31, 1966 through 1968
(in million dinars)
1966           1967           1968
AS SETS
Fixed assets
Fixed assets in operation                        289            314            346
Less depreciation                              14            12              140
Net fixed assets in operation                   17              168            207
W4ork in progress                                 36             37 
Total net fixed assets                      211            226            250
Current assets
Cash and banks                                    33             36             h6
Subscribers accounts receivables                   9             12             15
Advance payments to suppliers                                     1
Inventories                                        9             10             12
Total current assets                        52             59             7L
Loans and credits to other enterprises              12              9             13
Investments financed from Joint Con-
sumption Fund                                     17             21             21
Total assets                               292            315             358
LIABILITIES
Equity
Original Govt. contribution and
retained earnings (Poslovni fund)             198             215           2i3
Reserve                                            1              3              7
Total equity                               199            218             250
Long-term loan                                      48             55             62
Current liabilities
Current maturities                                 4              5              6
Bank loans (below 1 year's duration)               1              _              _
Suppliers' and contractors' bills                  2              5              6
Other current liabilities                         21             11             13
Total current liabilities                   28              21             25
Joint Consumption Fund                              17             21             21
Total liabilities                          292            315            358
November 18, 1969



YUGOSLAV PTT
Pro Forma Consolidated Profit and Loss Statement
Postal Qoerations for the Years ending December 31 1966 through 1968
(in million dinara)
Actuals
Revenues
Operating revenues from postal services         355            378            468
Other revenues from postal services              31             77             83
Total Postal Revenues                 386           455            551
Expenditures
Material, services, labor and taxes              l42            537           _593
Depreciation                                      11             11             i
Operating expenses                    1653           5th8          6o8
Net loss before interest                          (67)          (93)           (57)
Interest                                           2              1              1
Net Loss                              (69)           (914)          $8)
November 18, 1969



ANNEX 16
YUGOSLAV PTT
Pro Forma Consolidated Sources and Uses of Funds Statement for Postal Operations
for the Years ending December 31, 1967 and 1968
(in million dinars)
1967          1968
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation
Net loss before interest                               (93)           (57)
Depreciation                                            11             15
Total internal cash generation                    (82)           (42)
Borrowings                                                 11            12
Transfer from telecommunication services                 117             90
Increase (decrease) in current liabilities                (7)             4
Total sources                                                     64
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital construction                                      26             39
Interest                                                   1              1
Amortization                                               4              5
Total debt service                                  5              6
Increase in cash                                           3             10
Increase in other current assets                           4              5
Increase (decrease) of credits to other enterprises    (3)                4
Investment of Joint Consumption Fund                       4             _
Total applications                                 39             64
November 18, 1969



t)a,OID1AV r1f
Pro For-na Consolidated Balaance Sheet - Telecommunications Operations
as of December 31, 1966 through 1975
(in million dinars)
A C T 'J A L S                             P R O J E C T I O N S
1966    1967    196b          1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
ASSEIS
Fixed assets
Fixed assets irn operation                         1,935   2,100   2,314         2,837   3,809   4,662   5,632   6,936   7,582   8,286
Less: depreciation reserve                           758      837     940        1 069   1 235   1 447   1 704   2 018   2 381   2 777
Net fixed assets in operation           1      ,      77   T7        7                                              iT  7  e  X  1   5i >
Work in progress                                     235     248      297          360      400     450     500      250     230     200
Work in progress for future expansion                                                                                        300      700
Total net fixed assets                        1,412   1,511   1,671         2,128   2,974   3,665   4,428   5,168   5,731   6,409
Current assets
Cash and banks                                       223     238      311          325      255     332     533      723     754      682
Subscribers accounts receivables                      61       78      98          103      115     130      149     167     192      216
Advance payments to suppliers                          4        4       6             6       8      10       10      10        8       6
Inventories                                           57      69       78           78      114     140      169     208     227      248
Total current assets                            345     389     493           512     492      612     861   1,108   1,181   1,152
Loans and credits to other enterprises                  77       57      85            90     100     100      100     100      100     100
Investments firanced from Joint Consumption Fund       11i      146     177          207      242     292      357     427     512      612
Total assets                                  1,948   2,103       6         2,937   3        4,669   5,746   6,803   7,524   8 273
LIABILITIES
Equity
Original Government contribution and retained
earnings (Poslorni fund)                         1,321   1,440   1,629         1,942   2,379   2,852   3,441   4,054   4,746   5,5.6
Reserve                                                7      23       4)4          64       88     112      144     184      232     280
Total -Nuity                                  1,328   1,463   1,673         2,006   2,467   2,964   3,585   4,238   4,978   5,796
Long-terr, loars                                      319      365     407           520     835   1,101   1,4141   1,622   1,473   1,257
Current liabilitj es
Ourrent maturi-tes                                   26       35      48           56       69      74       78     183     199      216
Bank loans (below 1 year's duration)                 11        1     -             -        -      -        -       -        -       -
Suppliers' and contractors' bills                    12       23      37            45      59       72      86     101      110     119
Other current liabilities                           138       73      84          103      136     166      199     232     252      273
Total current liabilities                       187     129      169          204     264      312     363      516     561      608
Joint Cor.sur,t4on Fjrd                               114      146     177           207     242     292      357     427      512     612
Total liabilities                             1,948   2,103   2,426         2,937   3,808   4,669   5,746   6,803   7,5        8,273    J
Lebt: eouitv ratio                                   19:81   20:8C   20:80         21:79    25:75   25:75   29:71  36:64    23:77  18:82    a
Jarnaz:~ 30, 1970



ANINE 17
Y UGOSIAV PTT                Page 2 of 5 pages
Notes oi the  ½3alance Sheet - Telecoimmunications (>)eration
(a)  Fixed Assets
Assets for telecommunications operations represent 87% of the
value of all assets of all PTT enterorises. Fixed assets represernt
historic values corrected for devaluation of the dinar. This ner-
centage (87) was arrived at by separating the fixed assets used for
telecommunications operations in sore of the larger enterpris3es.  The
deviation was in each case below 11. For ?Iother assets" the devia-
tion is larger in some cases, but not ver-y important i n any casc.. 'Ihe
projected increases of the assets reflect the expansion under the
Programn.  In addition, advance expenditures for a future post 197
program waere included for the years 1974S and 1975 and the corresponding
assets sho'vni as work in progress.
(b) De?reciation
The depreciation reserve Up to 1966 shows actual accumulated
allocations to this reserve which have been adequate. A 5%' deprecia-
tion on a straight-line basis has been applied for the projections.
(c) Cash and Banks
Due to the fact that these amounts represent the consolidated
holdings of 42 (December 1968) autonomous enterprises, they necessarily
have to be much higher than if cash was managed centrally. In addition,
certain deposits are not completely liquid, e.g., cash corresponding
to depreciation has to be transferred to a certain deposit where it
has to remair for a short time of about one month. Although there will
be fewer enterprises in the future, relatively high cash holdirns will
be required.
(d)  Snbscribers' Accounts Receivables
Beginning 1970, this balance represents 1/12 of total revenues
except for 1969 which was estimated on the basis of June 1969 evidence.
(e)  Advance Payments to Suppliers
Notional increases in 1970 and 1971 indicate the period of large
expansion of facilities.
(f) Inventories
Beginning 1970, inventories are expected to be 3% of fixed assets
in operation.
(g) Loans and Credits to Other Enterprises
In Yugoslavia the number and strength of financial institutions
catering to the capital needs of the economy is still limited. Capital
is, therefore, often a by-product of a purchase. PTT enterprises have
tended to give loans to the suppliers of their equipment.



AiNEX 17
Page 3 of 5 pages
(h)  Investments Financed from Joint Consumption Fund
The Joint Consumption Fund includes also a housing fund, a re-
creational fund, a training fund, etc.  The investments consist
mainly of apartments and houses, but also recreational facilities,
restaurants, hotels, cash and loans. These investments have the
purpose of inproving the well-being of the staff of the enterprise.
The fund and its investments are shown on the balance sheet because
it forms an integral part of an enterprise, it is equally owned by
the personnel as other assets of the enterprise and, in case of
illiquidity, funds can be used for purposes of the enterprise.
(i) EgLuity
Equity consists of the net worth of the PTT enterprises at the
time of the transfer of assets and liabilities from Government to the
enterprises, plus retained earnings and reserves formed since that date.
Reserves consist of a legal reserve (federal law) and volu_ntary
reserves. The legal reserve isuiually formed by annual contributions
corresponding to 2% of the average (30 month average) working capital
till reaching 10% of it. In this context, the definition of working
capital corresponds roughly to current assets. The law allows three
different methods for calculating legal reserve contributions.  Cash
corresponding to the annual reserve allocation has to be maintained
for one year only. Once the reserve is not held as a separate cash
fund, it will not be shom  as a reserve on the liability side of the
Yugoslav accounting system.  In the projections these reserve alloca-
tions were accumulated under the item reserve.  Also, it was assumed
that allocations to the voluntary reserves will be equal to the legal
te.-.rves beginning with 1969.  Although voluntary reserves can be used
even for paymienrt of salaries or contributions to joint consumption
fundsi, i.t w.a. assumed that t.hey would be used to finance assets of the
enterprisc.
(j) Long-Term Loans
1)  Existing Loatis (Din. 55 million)
As ofL December 31, 1968 between 2,000 and 3,900 loans were out-
standing in all PTT enterprises. Since no consolidated projection of
their debt service existed it was assumed that they would be repaid
over an eight-year period beginning 1969. The average interest rate
was estimated to be 5%, to be calculated on the arerage outstanding
amount of the loans. Since amortization may be considerably higher
at the beginning of the period this forecast will be revised as soon
as better data will be available.
2)  IPMID Loan (Din. 450 million)
The IBlM loan has a -race period of f^ive years, an interest rate
of 7% for the Bank and ½2 for the Yugoslav Investment Bark in addition
to some minor feed and will be repaid over a l5-ycar period, after a
grace period of five years.



AL'IfEX 17
Page 14 of 5 page-C
3) Postal Sav;ngs Bank Loan (Din. 500 million)
This loan, which i-- contractually secured, will be repaid over a
ten-year period.  The exact dua-tion of the grace period is not men.--
tioned in the draft contract but it is assumed to bee-n after dis-
bursement.  The interest rate agreed upon 4i defined as 1% above the
rate the Postal Savings Bank is paying on savings deposits.  The
present interest rate of a  on savings deposits is not expected to
increase.  For the projector.s it has. tl_rtrofore, been acssumed that PTT
enterprises ilrl have to pay 6% interest per annum on the average out-
standing amount.
4)  Suppliers Credi-t (DLn. 275 million)
The successful bidder of part of the equipment to be supplied under
international competitive bidding has to provide financing also. This
credit is expected to be secured at an interest rate of about 8 , and
repayable in seven equal annual payments beginning after a grace period
of three years.
5) Local Credits (Din. 150 million)
These credits will be, or have been, secured by each individual
enterprise. The average cost of this credits are expected to be around
7i.4, and the repayment term seven years beginning with the year follow-
ing disbursement. For the projections it was assumed tlat a credit of
Din. 50 million would be assumed at the beginning of 1969 and a credit
of Din. 100 million at the beginning of 1970.
(k)  Suppliers' and Contractors' Bills
This item was projected to increase proportionate to fixed assets,
but excluding work in progress for future expansion.
(1)  Other Current Liabilities
These figures have been arrived at by balancing first debits and
credits of other current asset items and other current liability items
and then balancing other current assets against other current liabilities.
For the projections it was assumed that other current liabilities would
increase proportionate to total fixed assets.
(m) Joint Consumption Fund
This fund is fed by annual contributions from profits of the
enterprise and used to finance social needs of the labor force, such
as housing, recreational facilities, and vacations.  MinImum contri-
butions for certain purposes e.g., the housing fund, which forms part
of the Joint Consumption Fund, or for training purposes are compulsory.
Thus, a minimum contribution of 4% calculated on the total payroll has
to be made to the housing fund and 1$ for training purposes.  One



ANNEX 17
Page 5 of 5 pages
quarter of the contribution to the housing fund is used to subsidize rents.
This subsidy will, however, end in 1970. Actual contributions tend to be
much higher than the minimum prescribed. Although the Joint Investment
Fund serves purposes not directly linked with the business activities of
PTT enterprises, it has to be shown on the enterprises' balance sheet
because it is in many respects interrelated with the enterprises. Thus,
resources of the Joint Consumption Fund can always be transferred to the
Poslovni Fund or the Reserve Fund and then be used for purposes of the
enterprise. The law on enterprises specifies the conditions under which
such transfers are possible. If an enterprise is illiquid resources of
the Joint Consumption Fund can be used to pay its bills, but these expendi-
tures have to be repaid to the Fund. Salaries, however, cannot be paid out
of this Fund. Capital expenditures, e.g., for telephone exchanges financed
from the Consumption Fund are not repayable. Allocations to the Poslovni
or Legal Reserve Fund cannot be transferred to the Joint Consumption Fund.
January 30, 1970






o'   aJPTT
?rs Forna ,ens,lidateid Profit and Loss Statement for Telecommunications Operation
Years__adi_ _  _Decerber 31, 1966 through 1975
(in nllion d5nars)
A   T 3' A L S                          P R q    J E C T I O N S
1 _     1967    1560       -49 I?70          1971    1?72    1973    197h    1975
1.  ?eleroone ser-ice
Rentals                                               121     126      136       159      186      215      ?47      284      330      372
Local calls                                            89     1114    141        159      174      197      216      248      301      322
Trunk calls                                          297      343      398      1473      543      607      676      745      831      948
International calls                                    27      36       42        63       93      121      158      196      248      302
Installation fees                                       e       6        5        114      15       16       18       22       29       30
Miscellaneous                                          41       29      72        77       64       91       98      107      118      129
Total telephone revenues                        '8r      654      797       945   1,095   1,247   1,413   1,602   1,857   2,103
^.  Teleeraph                                                67       69       77        85       93      103     114      125      138      152
3.  Telex                                                    37       39       43        77      122      140      184      205     235       255
Operating revenues                              684      762      917    1,107   1,310   1,490   1,711   1,932   2,230   2,510
4.  Other revenues                                           7Q       75       72        74       76       78       80       82       84       86
Total revenues                                  754      837       89    1,181   1386   1,             791              314 2.596
ELPEN.TIT0RES
Materials for maintenance                                  40       48       60        65       68       79       95      123      161      206
Services (rent, electricity, fuel, insurance)             129      141      171       178      185      206      233      284      338      401
Labor expenditares ("Gross personal inonmes"'             196      223      251       281      314      343      375      409      453      503
Taxes (Federal Government)                                 17       23       29        29       44       58       -        -        -        -
Ccntribution to Republics, Municipalities
and Skoplje                                              11       16       21        31       28       30       38       40       45       50
Depreciation                                               71       79      103       129      166      212      257      314      363     396
Operating expenses                              iift.    53r!    634        713      805      928      998   1,170   1,360   1,556
Net inrome before interest                                290      307      355       468      581      640      793      844      954   1,040
In'tereet                                                                    2L -  P.  25       35       43       57       71       79       72
Net  o-ofit                                     274       cL,        331    443      546      597      736      773      875      968
Nwuber cf telephone subscribers (in 1,000)                265      3W2      336       428      5C2      585      682      803      969   1,156
Averap,e net fixed assets in operation                     -    1,220   1,318    1,571   2,171   2,894   3,571   4,423   5,059   5,354  12
Rate of retuwn                                             -                 27%       29%      27%      22%      22%      19%      19%      19 
Operatinre ratio % (expenditures before interest
related to revenues)                  6?       63       6N        6C       58       59       56       58       59       60    -
So
lranuar, 30, 1970



.ITEX 3
Page 2 of 5 pages
YIJO.SJLAV PTT
NTotes on the Profi.Lt and Loss -Statement - Teleconauti-ications
(a) Revciiues
In PTT's accounting system revenues from telecommunicatlons are
accounted for separately frmr. postal services and within telecomnunica-
tions separate for the three mair. ser½.rices - telephones, telex, tele-
graphs, but thie breakdown into the various subcategories had to be
estimated based on figures dating from the period before pu]se metering
was introduced. The ratio o0 local call to trunk call revenues in
the period 1959-1961 was 30:70.
The forecast of revenues wJas Gone on a national basis, not
individually for each enterprise. The unification of certain tariffs
and fees to be introdulced in January 1, 1971, will provide some addi-
tional revenues, whicn have not been taken in.-,o consideration in this
forecast.  Folloring are the main asslsmotions used:
1. Rentals
According to the nxmber of subscribers considering a relative
reduction of the subscribers with higher rentals, e.g., enterprises
whose share decreases from 12.5% in 1969 to 10i4.4 in 1975, and an
increase of subscribers with lower rentals, e.g., private subscribers
whose share would increase from 42% in 1969 to 53% in 1975.
2. Local and Trunk Traffic
Old subscribers will maintain their pulse generation, while the
pulse generation of new subscribers will decrease by 3% per annum.
The average price per pulse would remain Din. 0.25. Revenues from
non-metered interurban traffic was forecast to decrease gradually
from 43% of metered traffic 1969 to 28% in 1975, while revenues from
non-metered local traffic would decrease from 16% in 1969 to 4% in
1975.
3. International Traffic
Revenues increase at a rate which is equal to one-half of the
annual capacity increase multiplied by a factor gradually declining
from 100% to 57% to reflect the declining use of the international
network by new subscribers.
4. Installation Fees
According to connections, but with a decreasing revenue per
subscriber proportionate to the increase of private subscribers for
whom the average connection costs are lower.
5. Miscellaneous
Increase equal to 50% of increase of number of subscribers.



ANNEX 18
Page 3 of 5 pages
6. Telegraph
Number of telegrams handled will increase 7% per annum and revenue
per telegram 3% due to the increase of length of telegrams and a shift
to more expensive special services.
7. Telex
According to increase of telex subscribers and a 3% anmual increase
of revenues per subscriber.
8. Other Revenues
3% annual increase.
(b)  2penditures
In the final accounts of PTT enterprisest expenditures are not
shown separately for postal services and telecommunications, but due to
the different nature of operations most costs could be easily separated.
The cost of buildings (maintenance, light, etc.) commonly used by both
services were allotted according to the number of people working in
them or space occupied by equipment. Sources of errors are minor.
Assumptions for the projections are as follows:
1.. Materials for Maintenance
Costs of materials for maintenance are related to telephone sets
in service whereby a decline of costs per telephone was assumed for
the first years of the Program, when a higher percentage of material
is new.
2. Services Rendered by Others
Included in this category, besides rents for buildings, is a rent
on land use which has to be paid to the Municipality in relation to
land surface and floors of buildings and the proximity to the center
of town. Some decline of this category of costs per telecommunication
service unit provided is anticipated in the first years of the Program
when the same basic facilities (buildings, water, lighting, etc.) can
be used by the new capacities; but the cost per unit will increase
again towards the end of the Program when the cost for new facilities
will be added.
3. Labor Expenditures (Gross personal incomes)
In the Yugoslav accounting system the labor force is treated like
shareholders. The personnel, therefore, is paid from the surplus which
remains after covering non-labor costs. This compensation is rather
flexible and can even be decreased. For the projections it was assumed
that (a) the number of personnel qill increase by 15% of the rate of
increase of telephone subscribers - an ambitious target - and (b) that
the income per worker would increase by 60% of the rate of increase of
revenues. Over the Program period the number of workers is expected to



AINEX 18
P9ge j7of 5 pages
increase by 22;, and the revenue per  "erker thz. ~or       12 l52%   oI nO!fJrnally
12% per annum.  Included in labor exrn±ditlIres ;31e,  ides the net income
of the personnel, the folloling social ccntributiunr  and taxes which vary
depending oti the Miunicipality and Republic.  Tho follouing example i5
from the enterprise in Belgrade:
1% of not labor income for the reconstrurction of Skop1je
(in addition to the contribution frorm enterprise prof:its)
10.75% tazes
11.65% pension fund
5.60%0 fTorkmen's Compensation J*
2.30% childrons' benefits
0 .$5% unerployment insurance
Legally the Workers' Councils of enterrr-ses are free t, decide upon the
allocation of net revenue left after covering non-labor costs between
salaries/wages contributions and reinvestments. In reality there are
many strings and guidelines attached to this. The Workers' Council has
to decide at the beginning of the year what proportion has to be reinvested.
The CYPTT's guidelines recomLmend a ratio of 60% for salaries and wages.
Furthermore, the staff of the PTEs is i^.ell informed about the impact of
investments and their future income arri there prevails a general willing-
ness to reinvest a high proportion. Under the Seven-Year Development
Program the PTEs have undertaken to finance the portion corresponding to
the expansion of their facJilties, r-7r 'ince it is veryr difficult to
obtain long-term  loans the  sTE  will be forced to finance the major part
of the expansion from their own generated funds. The Assembly of the
CYPTT has also direct tools to influence self-financing.  It can decide
that the depreciation rates shall be increased; these funds can be used
only for fixed assets. Also, the CYPTT can initiate the freezing of the
salary level of an enterprise, or in an extreme case, discontinue its
existence.
7* This percentage increases in enterprises with higher than average
sickness or accident cases.
4. Taxes to Federal Government (at times called interest)
This tax varies considerably, depending on the functions or the
economic sector of an enterprise. PIT enterprises pay only 1.751 on the
Poslovni Fund (business fund). This tax is anticipated to be discontinued
in 1972.
5. Contributions to Republics, Municipalities and to Skopl,ie
The contribution to the reserve funds of Republics and Munici-
palities varies, but combined shall not exceed 5% calculated on Balance I
of the Profit Distribution, i.e., 2% for the Republic, 3% for the Munici-
pality.  The Enterprise Belgrade, for example, pays a total of 4%.  In



AN]7= 18
Pa S5of 5 pages
the projecticas, a contribution of 5% was applied. The contribution to
the Municipality has, besides the tax character, an element of an insurance
premium. If an enterprise has losses it can obtain grants from the
Reserve Fund of the Municipality. The contribution to Skoplje is 2% of
Balance III of the Profit Distribution (see Annex 20) and is used for the
reconstruction of Skoplje, the capital of Macedonia, which was destroyed
by an earthquake. This contribution will be discontinued in 1970. In the
Yugoslavia accounting system these contributions are paid out of profits
(lWetoprodukt) but in view of their cost character they are treated as
expenditures.
6. Depreciation
Depreciation rates charged by PTEs have varied but have not been
less than 5% of the value of assets recently. In the Pro Forma Statement,
87% of the depreciation has been charged to telecommunications proportionate
to the relative value of assets of the two services. With 13% of the
depreciation provisions (87% being for telecommunications) the postal
services are slightly overcharged in the years 1966-1968, and telecommunica-
tions are slightly undercharged, since the average life of postal assets
tends to be higher than for telecommunications equipment. WJith the future
division of accounts for the two services, this small mistake will be
corrected. For the projections a straightline depreciation rate of 5%
on average fixed assets in operations was applied. Note that the deprecia-
tion rate is fixerd by the Comrw,nirty to determine the cashl generation of
enterpriseS in a siimilar way the Bank uses the rate of return.
Hove-mber 18, 1969






YUXGOSLAV nT
Pro Forma Consolidated Sources and Uses af Funds Statement for Teleconmiunications Operations
for the Years Endin  Deember 31. 1967 through 1975
(in million dinars)
1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975            1969a 1975
SOIRCES OF FUNI
Intearal cash generation
Yet inc;se before interest                          307     355      468     581     640      793    8&       954   1,040             5,320
Depreciation                                         79     103      129     166     212      257     31      363      396 1..
Total internal cash geauration                 386     458     597      747     852   1,050   1,158   1,317   1,436              7,157
Borreuing
Existing loans                                      81       90      -       -       -       -       -       -         -
IDD loan                                            -       -        -       74     107     160      log    50         -
Postal Saing  bank                                      -           119     210     163      158     150     -         -                ao
SWpli.rs' credit                                    -        -       -       -       70      100     105     -         -                275
Local credite                                               -        50     100      -       -       -       _         - 
Total borrowings                                81      90     169      384     3'40    1l8      364    50         -              1,725
(Iacr ) dhcrosa  is cUrrT* liAit.a                 (67)     27       27     147      43       47      48      29       30               271
Total sources                                  40                     1.178   1       ,            ,                              2
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital construction                                  178      263     586   1,012      903   1,020   1,054      926   1,074             6,575
Interest                                               23      24       25      35      43       57      71       79      72               382
ortization
Existing loans                                       26       35      48      50      52       55      58       61      64               388
IBD loan                                             -       -        -       -       -       -       -        -         9                 9
Postal Savings Bank                                  -        -       -       -       -       -       -         61      64               125
Suppliers' credit                                                             -          -                      39      39                78
Local credits                                        -        -       -        6      17       19      20       22      23               107
Total amortization                              26,     35       48      56      69       74      78     183      199               707
Total debt service                              49      59       73      91     112      131     149     262      271             1,089
Change in cash                                         15       73      14     (70)      77     201     190       31     (72)              371
Change in other current assets                         29       31       5      50       43      48      57       42      43               288
Credits to other enterprises                          (20)      28       5      10       -      -       -        -        -                 15
Investments of Joint Consunption Fund                  32      31       30      35      50       65      70       85     100               435
Transfer to postal services                           117       90      80      50       50    __0       50       50      50               380
Total applications                             400     575      793   1,178   1,235   1,515   i ,  1,39    1,1466                 9 153
Debt ser-vce coverage                                 7.9     7.8     8 2     8.2      7.6     8.0      7.8     5.0     5.3
jairwry 30, 1970






YUGOSLAV PrT
Pro Forma Consolidated Distribution of Profits from Telecommunications Operations
for the Years Ending December 31, 1967 through 1975
(in million dinars)
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
NET PROFIT before contribution to Republics,
Municipalities and Skoplje (Annex 18, page 1)   300    352    474    574    627    774    813    920 1,018
Legal reserve (2% of average working capital)       8     10      10     12      12     16      20     24      24
Balance I                                292    342    464    562    615    758    793    896    994
Contribution to the reserve funds of
Republics and Municipalities                     11     15      23     28      30     38      40     45      50
Balance II                               281    327    441    534    585    720    753    851    944
Voluntary reserve                                   8      11     10     12      12     16      20     24      24
Balance III                              273    316    431    522    573    704    733    827    920
Contribution to Skoplje (2% on III)                 5       6      8     -       -
Balance IV                               268    310    423    522    573    704    733    827    920
Poslovni Fund                                     119    I)9    313    437    473    589    613    692    770
Joint Consumption Fund                             32      31     30      35     50     65      70      85    100
Transfer to postal services                       117      90     80      50     50      50     50      50     50
January 30, 1970                                                                                                    g



ANNEX 20
Page 2 of 5 pages
YUGOSLAV PTT
Ilotes on the Distribution of Profits
1.        In the Yugoslav accounting system labor expenditures
would be shown as part of the profit distribution. Since there
is no direct arithmetical interrelationship between labor costs
and profits, it is not shovm here. However, the contributions
to Republics, Municipalities and Skocije are cilculated as a
percentage of Balance I and are therefore shown here, although
they are treated as costs in the Pro Forma Profit and Loss State-
ment.
2.        Poslovni Fund (business fund) comes nearest to the
concept of equity in a cooperative society.  It represents the
enterprise's own funds. L1arnings earrarked for reinvestment by
the Worker's Council are credited to this fund.  In the projec-
tions the balance of profits not allot,ted to the Joint Consumption
Fund or to postal services was credited to the Poslcvni Fund.
3.        In the projections it was assumed that allocations to
the Joint Consunption Fund, which could be conceived as dividend
payments, would be around 10% of profits, somewhat lowler if invest-
ment requirements were high and vice versa.
4.        Transfers to postal services cover losses, investment
and working capital needs. In the projections it was assumed that
beginning 1970, this transfer would not be higher than Din. 50 mil-
lion per annum.
November 18, 1969



A2NEX 20
Page 3 of 5
YUGOSLAV PTT
Mlinimum Rate of Return
The Overall Rate of Return
1.        In 1968 the telecommunications sector had a rate of return of
27% and the return is expected to remain above 20% during the Program period.
As shown in Annex 19, this rate of return provides for internal cash gene-
ration which would finance a major proportion of the Program requirements;
debt financing would only play a minor role in the sector's financing plan.
The scarcity of long-term fwuds on Yugoslavia's capital market requires a
high rate of self-financing to continue for some time.
2.        In order to determine the minimuir rate of return which would result in
a reasonable financing plan for the Program, an estimate was made of the
maximum additional funds which the sector could borrow.  Detailed calcula-
tions on page 5 of this Annex show that internal cash generation equivalent
to an 18% return would then be re(quired in addition to the funds from de-
preciation (5%) to complete the financing plan.
The Individual Rates of Return
3.        Under the Law on the Organization of Yugoslav PTT, each PTE is
responsible for the financing of the expansion of facilities in its area.
Before proposing its own development program each PTE estimates its financing
potential which varies frcm enterprise to enterprise and is determined by
its tariffs (only long distance tariffs will be uniform),its costs ("salaries"
differ widely fran enterprise to enterprise), its traffic intensity, and
size of its network. As a rule, enterprises with a large expansion program
to satisfy the high demand also have a high originating traffic and therefore
high revenues to finance their program. The bulk of the expansion will take
place in a few large enterprises in industrialized areas where traffic
origination and therefore revenues are very high. The rate of return in
these PTEs is well above 20% approaching in most cases 30% and they are
likely to remain in this range. Only a few small PTEs had rates of return
below 20% in 1968 and none was below 10%. In general, originating traffic
in these PTEs is low and expansion needs moderate, so that a lower rate of
return will be adequate to finance their individual expansion program.
h.        A further consideration in determining individual rates of return
besides the size of the expansion program is the access of a PTE to long-
term debt. That part of its investment requirements wxhich cannot be
financed by debt must be financed from internally generated funds and the
individual rate of return of each PTE will determine the minimum amount of
self-f inancing.
5.        On the basis of present tariffs, the rates of return forecast to
be achieved by each PTE are likely to be higher than the minimum return



ANNEX 20
Page h of 5
determined by the CYPTT, and no tariff increases will therefore be required.
Where earnings are inadequate to meet the expansion program the CYPTT can
exercise considerable discretion in the allocation ofi investment costs of
the long distance network among individual PTEs (see para. 2.31).  In
addition the PTEs have the right to set their tariffs and fees for local
service. These show considerable differences from enterprise to enter-
prise. Another factor accounting for considerable differences in the
financial performance of PTEs is the level of labor costs; saJl-ries can
be as much as 50g lower in a less developed area.



ANNEX 20
Page 5 of 5
YUMSLAV PTT
Pnancing the Developnment Progan
With A Rate of Return of 18%
1970          1971          1972          1973          1974          1975
Sources
Retwrn at minijr 18% rate                                                   391           521,          643            796           911           963
Depreciation (5W%                                                           166           212           257           314            363            96
Total internac cash generation                                                    733           9I7li
Borrowing under no.mal corditions                                           384           340           418           364            50
(Increase) decrease in current 4iabii.ies                                     7                          47            48            29             30
Subtotal                                                             Tfl9                        175227
Additionai bcrrowing which conld be secured
from local banks and Posta'l Savings Bank                                 250           200           250           150              _             _
Tota! Sources                                            1,238         1,316         1,615          1 672         1,303         1 389
Applications
Application of funds according to program                                 1,178         1,235          1,515         1,570         1,o46         1,066
Additional annual transfer to postal services                                50            50             50            50            50            50
Debt service assu&ed on additional borrowing                                  9            25            39             56           208           2i16
Subtotal                                             T1I7 TI:3m                                                              T;w
Increase (decrease) of cash                                                   1             6            11             (4)           (1)           27
Total Applications                                       1,238         1,316         1,615          1,672         1,303         1.389
Jalmry 3G, 1970






ANNEX 21
YUGoSL&V PTT
Representative Telephone Tariffs
(in dinars)
Effective as of January 1. 1969                      Proposed
(depending on enterprise)                 (uniform for the country)
A. Installation Fee and Charges Per           30 to 300 flat, or actual costs            At least cost covering
Main Telephone                            Average in 1968: Din. 203
B.  Line Rentals Per Month                    Private subscribere Din. 5 to 15           Minimum Din. 30 with no
State, health, cultural                   free local calls.
institutions        Din. 20 to 60         Above minimum level
Enterprises         Din. 40 to 100        varying according to
Average for all groups                    enterprise
in 1968             Din. 32
Rental includes as a rule 30
to 60 free local calls
C. Local Service
Local calls-automatic:                  Per call or pulse:                         Din. 0.30
one pulse per oall, unlimited time      Din. 0.20: four big PTEs
for private subscribers,                Din. 0.25: one small enterprise
limited to 3 min. for public            Din. 0.30: all other enterprises
coin station                            average: Din 0.25
Local calls-manuals                     Flat rate for unlimited use:
private subscribers Din. 6 to 11,
Stats, health and cultural
organizations   Din. 20   to 70,
enterprises     Din. 40   to 120
D. LongDistance Service
Iong-distance calls-automatic (STD): Din. 0.20, 0.25 and 0.30 per pulse            Regular day rate:
depending on enterprise as above.          Din. 0.30 per pulse
Time interval between pulses
according to distance during call:
Air diatance:
Zone It up to 100 km    15-10 sec.
Zone II: 100 to 200 km       8 sec.
Zone IIIs 200 to 400 km      6 sec.
Zone IV: over 400 km         5 sec.
No night rates or heavy                     Reduced uniform rate -
traffic rates                               per pulse between 5 p.m.
and 7 a.m. and on weekends.
Range
Average tariffs for long-distance         of
Long-distance calls-manualX  manual traffic  in 3-minute units        tariffs            Proposed
Zone I up to 25 km                         Din. 1.50                 1.20-1.80        Uniformity is intended
Zone II up to 25-50 km                     Din. 2.30                 1.80-2.80        to be attained also
Zone III up to 50-100 hn                   Din. 3.10                 2.40-3.80        here, but the specific
Zone IV up to 100-200 km                   Din. 4.00                 3.00-5.00        rates are still under
Zone V up to 200-400 km                    Din. 4.75                 4.00-5.50        study.
Zone VI over 400 km                        Dln. 5.65                 4.80-6.50
Nc,te:  For "urgent" manual calls a double-rate applies and for "very urgent"
calls a triple-rate.
January 30, 197u



YUGOSLAV P?T
Incremental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Progran
(in million dinars)       -
1909     1970       1971       1972       1973      1974       1975       197c       1977       1978       1979       1980
REVENUES A
1. Telephone service
Rentals                                       23        50         79       111        14t8       194        236        236        236       236        236        236
Local calls                                   18        33         53        75        107        160        181        181        181       181        181        181
Trunk ca s             /2                      -         -        6t6       133        202        288        405        500       604        719        845        964
International calls   2-                                 -         28        65        103        155        209        239        272       309        349        393
Installation fees                             14        15        16         18         22         29         30         -          -          -         -          -
Miscellaneous                                  5        12         19         26        35         46         57         57         57        57         57         57
Total Telephone Services             60       110        259        428       617        872      1,118      1,213      1,350      1,502     1,668      1,851
2. Telegraph  13                                     5        11         17         24        30         37         46         46    4     6         46         46        46
3.  Telex       4                                    76      120        137        180       200        229        248        248        248        248        248        2
Total Incr ental Revenes            1R   2               ___        632       847      1.138   _1412         1.A07      1,6W~      1.796      L2        2,145
Materials for maintenance                        5         8         19         35        63        101        146        1416       216        146        146        146
Services (rent, electricity, fuel,
insurance)                            7        14         35         62       113        167        230        230        230        230        230        230
Labor expenditures                              3Q        63         92       124        158        202        252        252        252        252        252        ;2
Total Inereerztal Erpemditures       42                  11 6       221        31        470        62         62         o2         628        62         628
Total net revenue attributable to
the Program                                  99        156        267       411        513        668        784        879      1,016    1,168      1,3314      1,517
CAPITAL BPQIITURES                                586      1,012        903      1,022      1,0514       626        673         -        -         -                      _
INCRENKTAL RATE OF RETJUR
Asasuing an average lifetime of twenty years, the incremental rate of return of the Program would be 19.1%
NOTE:  The imnremrwtal rate of return measures financdal returns accruiang to the eoonciy, thus including interests, dividnuds, etc.
Taxes vere however mit lncluded because of the difficulty to determlne them exactly.
/1 Except for telegraph, telex, trunk and international telephone service revenues, all projected increases of revenues
and expenditures were attributed to the Program. In 1980, the capacity of all installations is expected to be fully
utilized, generating fram then onwards constant revenues and expenditures.
/2 Trunk and international call revenue increases are attr_buted to installed capacity - up to 1970. From 1971 onwards,
all additional revenues are attributed to the Program. From 1976 to 1980, revenues attributable to the Prograr are
increasing  10% per year calculated on total revenues.
/3  Telegraph service revenues attributable to the Program are assumed lo increase 7% per year.
/4  97% of the increases of telex services are assumed to be generated by the Program.
February 2, 1970



YUGOSLAV PIT
tncrez'ental Revenues, Costs and Capital E cpenditures of Project
(in mill Ton dinars.
;-      .5>71     1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
Most Likely Event
REVENUES
Trunk calls                                 -        39       8B        12L       176       2LB       306       370       440       517       602       602       602
International calls   1                     -        17        4D        63        95       128       1246      166       189       214       241       241       241
Gross incremental revenues                  -       7F        171       167       271       777       12-    G7            M        - 73i      73        W3       e3
Less: revenues assigned to
local call facilities (10V'                         6        12        19        27        38        45        54        63        73        84        84        84
incremental revenues assigned
to project                               -         SD       109       168       244       33B       4o0,7     482       566       658       759       759       759
Sernditures, salaries
and services   /3                                  21        _         55        92       127       155       156       157       157 15
INCPRgIDNTL NET PROCEZS                                 29        73      113       152       211       252       326       1409      501        601       601       601
CAPITAL  1P=E)ITUrFE                         121       271      386       297         -         -        20        20         20        20        -         -         -
Ieaat Favorable Rvent
Trun} caiis     /5                          -         29       61         93      132       186       230       277       330       388        452       L452      452
International ciTls  /5                     -         12       30        4.7       71        96       110       125       142       160        180       180       180
Gross incremental revenues                  -         hl      -Y        I77                                                          7                             ' 632
Less: revenrues assigned to
local call facilities (20%)  '2          -          8        18        28        40        56        68        80        94       110       126        126       126
Incrsenntal revenues assigned
to project                                -        33        73       112       163       226       272       322       378       43B                  506       506
COSTS
xpemnditures, salaries and
services      /3                         _         23        36        55        92       127       155       156       157       157       158        150
INCREMPTAL NEC  PRDCEED6                      -         12        37        57        71        99      117        166       221       281       348       348       3A8
CAPITAL EXPENDITUVRS                         121       271       386       297        -         -         20        20        20        20        -         -          -
INCRZKENTAL RATE OF RETURN
Assuming an average lifetime of 20 years, and net proceeds remaining constant from 1980 onwarks, the inerevental rate of return
under assumptions of most probable events will be 26.9%.
Assuming an average lifetime of 20 years, and net proceeds remaining constant irom 1980 onwards, the incremental rate of return
under tne lowest probable event ass-wrptions will be 16.4%.
'1  Assuming that capacity utilizatioon of Th,e transit trunk network is twice that of the trunk network as a whole.
/2  According to the assumed relative capacity utilization.
3  Costs caused by the Project are assumed -o be in the sane proportion as costs of domestic long-distance and
international telecon=mmicat.i2n services to tneir investment.
/4  Capital expenditures fbr the lcaer level meilma distance conuections ('mUch amount to absut 10% of total project cost) and
reverues therefrom hiave noT been taken into cansideration.
5  Ass=idng that capacity utilisation of t-e transit tranr.  TLtwork is 50% hiEr than that ef the trunk network as a whole.



YUGSILAV PTT
Incremental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Titograd-Titovo Uzice Coaxial Cable
in million dinars
1970     1971      1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
REVENUES
Gross Revenue  /1                                                   3.662    4.285    5.011    5.867    6.862    8.029    9.396   10.991   10.991   10.991   10.991
Less: Revenues assigned to local
exchange and distribution
facilities  (10%)                                            366       428       501      587       686       803      940    1.099    1.099    1.099    1.099
Revenues assigned to long-distance
installations                                                     3.296    3.857    4.510    5.280    6.176    7.226    8.456    9.892    9.892    9.892    9.892
C06TS
Maintenance                                                           700       700      700       700       700      700       700       700      700       700       700
Unearned revenues of radio relay
system      /2                                                    1.887    1.647    1.367    1.039        656       207        -       -             -      -         -
Total coats                                                2.587    2.347    2.067    1.739    1.356          907      700       700    __j!2       700    _700
INCREETAL NU  PROCEZDB                                                  709    1.510    2.443    3.541    4.820    6.319    7.756    9.192    9.192    9.192    9.12
CAPITAL EXPE DrnU  S
Investments in coaxial cable
and related equip ent   /3           3.000   12.000   12.700
Aeallocation of radio relay
facilities                                                700
Total capital expenditures   3.000   12.000   13.400
INCRTRh AL R&Te OF BETURN
Assuming an average lifetime of twenty years and adverse circumstances, the incremental rate of return
of the Titograd-Titovo Uzice coaxial cable would be 15.6%
/1  Average rate of 0.30 dinars per six seconds, an average of 0.02 Erlaags originated per L.U.
/2  It is assumed that the reallocated radio facilities will begin earning half of the revenues tLey were generating in l972,
and that these revenues will increase at the sane rate as in the coaxial cable until it reaches its full capacity in 1979.
/3  Includes coaxial cable with installation material, gas control devices, line carrier equipment, multiplex carrier
terminal equipment, transit exchange and labor costs.
November 18, 1969



YUGOSIAV mT
Incremental Revenues, Costs and Gapita' PRpenditures of the Satellite Ground Station at Most Likely Demand
(in million dinars)
1970     1971     1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977     1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
REV -
increenrital rervenues  /1                                            10.288   22.653   24.899   26.213   28.565   31.189   34.099   37.235   4o.780   44.490
CURREWT EIPWITURR3
A. At conatant circuit rental
Satellite circuit rental  /2                                         1.250    2.625    2.875    3.250    3.625    4.125    4.375    4.875    5.500    6.250
Maintenance     13                                                     837    1.095       940    1.030    1.130    1.250    1.370    1.510    1.510    1.510
Other                                                                 1400      800       800      900       900       900    1.000    1.000    1.000    1.000
Totals                                             2.487    4.520    4.615    5.180    5.655    6.275    6.745    7.385    8.010    8.760
B. At decreasing circuit rental
Satellite circuit rent-a  /4                                           875    1.575    1.438    1.399    1.340    1.313    1.197    1.147    1.113    1.085
Maintenance    /3                                                      837    1.095       940    1.030    1.130    1.250    1.370    1.510    1.510    1.510
Other                                                                  400     80        800      900       900       900    1.000    1.000    1.000    1.000
Totals                                             2.112    3.470    3.178    3.329    3.370    3.463    3.567    3.657    3.623    3.595
IICRTAL ur PROCEEDS
At constant circuit rental                                             7.801   18.133   20.284   21.033   22.910   24.914   27.354   29.850   32.770   35.730
At decreaaing circuit rental                                           8.176   19.183   21.721   22.884   25.195   27.726   30.532   33.578   37.157   40.895
CA&PTAL MFPEIMITURES              16.000   16.000    6.000    ..000        150
DiCRDMWAL RATE OF RETURN
At moet likely demand and cost levels (= decreasing circuit rental) the incremental rate of return would be 27.6%
At most likely demand and highest cost levels (= constant circuit rental) the incremental rate of return would be 26.1%
/1  1974-1981 estimates are based on projected traffic between Yugoslavia, U.S.A., Canada, Sweden, and half of estimated traffic
with U.K., and North African countries. From 1982 onwards estimates are based on extrapolation of previouw trends.
/2  1974-1981 estimates are based on projected use of half-channels and a constant level of circuit utilization charges of Din. 125,000
per half-channel. From 1982 onwards requirements of half-circuit have been assumed to grow at the same rate as in previous years.
/3  Based on projected requirements of local and foreign personnel.
/14 1974-1981 estimates are based on projected use of half-channels and Intelsat projected decrease of circuit utilization charges.
From 1982 onwards both increases in number of half-channels and decreases of Intelsat charges are based on extrapolation of
previous trends.
Noytd-.er 18, 1969



YUGOSLAV PmT
Incremental Revenues, Costs and Capital Expenditures of the Satellite Ground Station at Lowest Likely Demand
(in million dinars)
1970     1971      1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977     1976      1979      1980      1961     1982      1983
PEVENUI
Incremental reverue  /1                                                 8.278   18.187   20.022   20.990   22.927   25.095   27.540   30.160   33.100   36.200
CURRENT EXPENDITURES
A.  At constant circuit rental
Satellite circuit rental  /2                                          1.000    2,000    2.125    2.500    2.750    3.250    3.375    3.750    4.250    u.875
Maintenance  /3                                                         837    1.095        940    1.030    1.130    1.250    i.370    1.510    1.510    1.510
Other                                                                   400       800       600      900       900       900    1.000    1.000    1.000    1.000
Totals                                               2.237    3.895    3.865       .-430    4.780    5.400    5.750    6.260    6.760    7.385
B.  At decreasing circuit rental
Satellite circuit rental  /A                                            700    1.200    1063    1.076    1.016         '.035      923       682       o6G       846
Maintenance  /3                                                         837    1.095        94o    1.030    1.130    i.250    1.370    1.510    1.510    1.510
Other                                                                   400       800       800      900       900       900    1.000    1.000    1.000    1.000
Totals                                               1.937    3.095    2.803    3.006    3.046    3.1'5    3.293    1.392    3.510    3.356
INCREMENTAL NET PROCEEDS
At constant circuit rental                                              6.041   14.292   16.157   l6.560   18.147   19.695   21.'9o   23.900   26.340   28.815
At decreasing circuit rental                                            6.311   15.092   17.219   17.984   19.881   21.910   24.247   26.768   29.730   32.8L4
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES               16.000   16.000    6.ooo    2.000        150
INCREMENTAL RATES OF RETURN
At lowest likely demand and most likely cost levels (- decreasing circuit rental) the incremental rate of return would be 23,5%
At lowest likely demand and highest probable cost levels (= constant circuit rental) the incremental rate of return would be 22.0%
/1 1974-1981 estimates are based on projected traffic between Yugoslavia aT' tT.S.A., Canada, and 3weden.  Froe  1982 and 196o  estirnates
are based on extrapolation of growth rate of previous years.
/2 1974-1981 estimates are based on projected use of half-channels and a constant level of circuit utilization charges of Dn. 125,000
per half-channel.  From 1982 onwards requirements of half-circuits have been assumed to grow at the same rate as in pre-riovs years.
/3 Based on projected requirements of local and foreign personnel.
l4/ 1974-1981 estimates are based on projected use of half-channels and Intelsat Frojected decrease of circuit utilization charges.  From
'982 onwards both increases in number of half-channels and decreases in Intelsat charges are based on extrapolat-on of previc;s trends.
November 18, 1969



Annex 27
YUGOSLAV PTT
Economic Justification
Consideration of the Consumerst Surplus
1-.       In public utility services where tariffs are regulated either
directly or indirectly, incremental rates of return calculated with re-
venues considered as the only benefits, as in paras. 5.04, 5.05, 5.07
and 5009, do not adequately reflect the full beniefits of an investment
in a public utility service, especially in a less developed economy. Very
often consumers would be ready to pay a higher price for the service than
that stipulated by the regulated conditions, i.e., there is a "consumerst
surplus". This is particularly true for telecommtmnications services to
which subscribers tend to attribute a high value for cost savings and/or
profit increase potential. However, for only a very few countries it is
known just how much more than prevailing tariffs customers would be ready
to pay before they either curtail the service or give it up altogether.
In Yugoslavia there has not been a price increase for many years and it
is not known what value to give the price elasticity of demand for
telecommunications services
2.        Observations in other countries would indicate a range of about
-0.2* to -0.6*. By using these two extremios it is possible to give an
indication of the order of magnitude of the consumers' surplus. The
calculations require the making of many controversial assumptions, e.g.
with respect to the shape of the price/demand curves. If the shape of
these curves are taken as straight lines, assuming a price elasticity
of -0.2 would yield a consumers' surplus of 250% of the present price
charged. The equivalent figure for assuming a price elasticity of -0.6
would be 83%. The price/demand curve, however, is more likely to be a
curve and the distortion created by assuming a straight-line may well be
proportionately greater for an elasticity assumption of -0.2 (rather than
-0.6) considering the steepness of the curve. A correction of this
distortion would however be unlikely to reduce the calculated consumerst
surplus by more than 20%-30%. The minimum consumers' surplus under the
above assumptions would thus still be about 60% of the present price.
3.        If returns on projects with regulated prices are to be com-
parable with returns on other projects, the consumers' surplus must be
added to the net revenues calculated at prevailing tariffs as shown in
the cost benefit analysis. Using the minimum consumers' surplus figures
of 60% in para. 2, above, the discount rate which equates the present
valuie of the total benefits of the proposed project to the present value
of the costs is about 40%.
*         If we assume a constant price elasticity of demand of -0o2, a
500% increase in price will correspond to a 100% decrease in demand. If
we assume a constant price elasticity of demand of -0.6, a 167% increase
in price will correspond to a 100% decrease in demand.






&   UA                                                      I ti6° '  t8°                  20° -  -                         220                             24 
'            E |   ~A, U  S T  R  r A                                                                           fj                              
-I A+~   J-6%1;   M.S(ob56                                                  $0    50             100       iSo        200
I*  *        069\               H    U    N    G    A    R    Ytr                                             Kilometers
k.~~   *~~*~*   j  \    Maribo,N
ITA < }   '\   K j                    062                                                                                      '
I  t  A  L  Y         )    \ 064                Ceije              r * Vr46dinJ
W-                     \~~~~'---    >       c063              042    \-6
4  065 1         LJUBLJANA           0 049)( Z  00 Suboticr '_
(_   /\>   061   /W                                  B ~ r>  jeovor-\ .                         024
- Postojna                         ZAGREBP  * 043/          \                                    I /           \,        R    0    U   M    A    N    I   A
_)          067  N Mesto®   041/i                      /                                025
0 68    N                                Virovito1
* 066~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
(  RIJEKA         d~IQoOar(. Sisak*  (Kutic
053           j                               I                Sl Srod 4VinkOv'
n .Pu o 1        5 I                                                                        NOVIjr 4 ~srAirvcr|-PiDev
\-~~~~~048 4          045TZL  >~t{'
~~~ 6je2\0753                                            SI Brco                         0 _ r
057 052                        \   >             X                 _J-            \                ( 035    ZajeEor{                   ,  '_
a'~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ,*                                                                                                  ! X        3    \5
052
440                                                                                     zenia                    2   014      ~          KRAGUlaACr)044
>  t     J          \>Bijelo ~P~eoIje       ~          /<            NI *eso'    S
079                              ~~~~~~~~~~~033                                01
/  r  ( Niksic  /4        ,)-                                   } E3~~~~~ULGARIA
Bihacvifil                       \_ebinje            /                     Pec     \- PRISTINA
77        078 A    oboi            -          b c           BEOGRAD ¢        P /Y 039 \ e03  )c
Telephone Exchange Zones,                                                                           2 01    L, .\  /   012                                    <
422      Transit0Areas, and Code Numbers4                                                                TU LA
3NI§  Main transit exchange (tertiary)                                                                         , 7                         *09
*PuIa  Zone exchenge[secondery3                                                                         1  t/Kicevo   \>  TOgV31eS \  >            Zi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r '11ev
-         Boundary between tertiary areas                                                                                                                                          r
ALBANIA   {                              -~ 
--Boundary between secondary areas                                           0                                               0    096    o 097         ,_r
012    Secondary area code numbers                                                                                                        *Ohrid \   *B0aIarea
Livnc)  -SA JEVO     U~ICE        *~a6ak                                      C 
I I' I                                                                                 '    G I
14"                     16"                                   18"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05  OSA                                               01"
Bij-lo   Pol                                    Leskon af,              2695
r!s  *6°                               18                    >               2t)°                 s                               lBRD 269~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01






14°                                16'                                180                               20                         ,/      22°                                 240
A  U  S  T  R  I A                                                      I/.9                               I                                  I j
.~              7~   M> \MSobota                                                                            0          5           100         150        200
I  T  A  L  Y       (                                                                        H    U    N    G          A    R     Y                                           Kilometers
Cetje i CVaroidin \
46'L-             NNGaric. k                  2               Zrboh  //                                                                                                                                          46
* LJUBLJANA              '/ '                                                               Sobofico
N. Mesto  ZAGREB!"'      'N
PostPos tojno                 \                  \  /             ~                  %.~Viroifico                            R    O    U    M    A    N    I   A
Koper                   K-lovc                                                 OSIJEK
PQZflO\  ,(9RIJEKA                /           "Sisak\.        \renjtnm
- ~~~ Vinkovci            *  NOVI SAD
.'-                                        \rod
',  Pula              \/                       Prijedor                                                \Pondevo                              , 
Bihod        _'BANJA\-\ '                 *-     Brbko   SBEOGRAD
LU KA~        'Qoboi
icO-            LAS oQtbo _                          i c- ~  ,< Pozbrevoc iJ
Gdspic                                                -      -         --                                   PoN'ev<
6    \                    Jojce     "*
44                                           Zodre'                                   ------- -        Zenico                         Voijevo     KAGUJEVA    * 
S\ L,ono         \\      SARAJEVO         T.UZICEQG 'i ZuiecarP                                            .
MA.. 2 rs±de   2     /          > ___,-,: Kralievo  uiv ,
Sibenik                                                    Goad
SPLIT      \               ~ 
Yugoslavia                                                                                         i                       Ioije
LONG DISTANCE                                            -\ --eloPoije                                                                               LeskoV°t-
TELECOMMUNICATIONS NETWORK                                                   hcr                                                    -------------  ®                                               A
Existing  Main Transmissioni Systems, 1969                                            trebin                                      Pe              PRISTINA   '.Vranem
Dubrovn ik          .           .            .
®i)     Transit exchange (tertiary)                                                                     Cetinje   TITOGR9AD        L.
42°              *       Zone exchange (secondary)                                                                                          .                       SK0PLJE    .'
0       Radio relay station                                                                                        p   -Tetoeo
Coaxial cable 2.6/9.5mm. pairs; (2p or 4p) number of pairs                                                                                                          Sfip
Coaxial cable 1.2/4.4mm. pairs; (4p) number of pairs                                                                                              T.  eles
VYWW\AWW  Carrier frequency cable, symmetrical pairs                                                                                         t          KiCevo
---------  Radio relay system, 960 telephone channels                                                                         ALBANIA
-------  Radia relay system, 300 telephone channels
--....-.-    Radio relay system, 120 telephone channels
2x      Number of broad band radio channels in excess of one                                                                                     Ohfrid      -BitoIo/
International boundary               |
140                                      160                                      180                                       20J                                      -22       






14'                              16'.'                            180                              20'                          #22'                                  240
.A  U  S  T  R  t A   
AUSTRIA                      a                                                                                                                   100  0M.Sobot  O  So  n0ie 150  20
,~~.....%.4.    aribo'   M SobOto                                        0        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kilometers         -
I  T  A  L  Y   g                   >               W   '              \IH                    U    N     G     A     R     Y  I
Cean  l                  *Voroidinl
M4si                              -SomboZobok                           rSu*oc_
Koper                                    lx                                 OSIJEK
t               ~    ~ ~ ~~~Pa zi 'F. I                                              <                                               Zrenjlunin)
70t  1t       88/                        s;;          ~~~~~~~          ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~Si. Brod    \J
//  Ix           JOjce         Q:>  oR        / Virovitic`     I o
44°_ Zode~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r. \v   Meitrz                                                                            rleo KRGJVC>    f
~ DEVELOPMENT                                                                        Vinkol 2           NOI SAD Dobo  _i0                                         .
-~ ~                                   § "aboc \\.                      PoiorevOc
unc11anged new sy5tes to be                                                            -2_        > TUZLA
440-                       ZZdoe DI--                                                        -        con                       Vlvo       KRAGUJEVAC   _.
+                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Svetozarevo
MAP  3                                                                                            T   U. ilC;
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                         GoraO                          rajeoKd.go
i{3  Newtronit exchan   and  ainitrnsissb  cete                                                                             *             \           sGorob
TELECOMMUNICATIONS                                           SPLUT~ \\\\Prijepolie                                                                                       I
M9NSTAR*              /
/\  Sotellite ground stotion                                                          A                          \    c;         T, Vele\s/,rI
DEVELOPMENT                                                                b-.
-   Coexiel coble 2.6/9.5mm.poirs;(2por4pXnumberofpairs                                               !      SKieeBielo Poje    Le0voc/            8
PROGRAM  (1969 -1975)                                                                                                      I'Bjl oi
-Cl:. \oexial \oble 1.24.4snm.  oirs  of,Npksac  -A
Long Distance Network - Proposed MainTransmission Systems                                                                                   - -- - -         R ALGARtA
Systems Redistributed and                                                                    Trebiree              - 1
unchantged new systems to be                                                                     '-k- - 0    A-
from 1969 operative by t975                                                                  Dubreynili        cI      TTG
42~~~~~ ~Tronsit exchange (tertiary)
---._,- aiarlysytr,96tlpZone exchange (secondary)                                                                                             A    -       - /0
0                  Radio relay station                                                                                                         "--Ovc
x  x    New traonit oxchange and main transmission center                                                                                                       §tip
o  (D     Radio relay station, new and extended
_._     Satellite ground station                                                                                                               T, Vel s
-ANU    YCoaxial cable 2.6/9.5 mm. poirs9(2p or 4p) number of pairs
Coaxial cable 1.2 /4.4 Mm. pairs-, (4p) number of pairs                                                                        PKicevo
wvImAmW                Carrier frequency cable, symmetrical pairs                                                               ALBANIA    %          ,
 ---Radio relay system, 1800 telephone channels
Radio relay system, 960 telephone channels
------------  Radio relay system, 300 telephone channels                                                                                        I!f ALitoh d
2x        2x       Number of broad band radio channels in excess of one                                                                      tj      dG R E EC E
International boundary                                                                                                     A --
140                                     160                                    180                                    200                                     2 0IRD-267
JANUARY   1970                                                                                                                                                                      IR             67



