                                          Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                      For Official Use Only

                                                                       ReportNo: 35448-GLB

                                    PROJECTDOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                               PROPOSEDGRANT FROMTHE
                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUST FUND

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$3.00MILLION

                                            TO THE

 WORLD FISHCENTER (OTHERWISE KNOWNAS ICLARM, THE INTERNATIONAL
            CENTER FOR LIVINGAQUATIC RESOURCEMANAGEMENT)
 INTERNATIONALCENTER FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCHINTHE DRYAREAS
                    AFRICAN CENTRE FOR TECHNOLOGY STUDIES
                                              AND
       INTER-AMERICANINSTITUTEFOR COOPERATION ONAGRICULTURE

                                            FOR AN

INTERNATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
                               FOR DEVELOPMENT (IAASTD) PROJECT


                                          March 6,2006




Environmentally& Socially SustainableDevelopmentSectorUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region

Environmentally& Socially SustainableDevelopmentNetwork


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                    All TransactionsinUSDollars

                                             FISCALYEAR
                                           July 1     - June30

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASARECA       Association for Strengthening Agricultural ResearchinEast and CentralAfrica
ACTS          African Centre for Technology Studies
CGIAR         Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
CSD           Commission on Sustainable Development
CTA           Center for Rural and Technical Cooperation
FA0           Food and Agriculture Organization o fthe UnitedNations
GBA           Global Biodiversity Assessment
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GFAR          Global Forum for Agricultural Research
IA            Implementing Agency for the Global Environment Facility
IAASTD        International Assessment o f Agricultural Science and Technology for Development
IAC           InterAcademy Council
ICARDA        International Center for Agricultural Research inthe Dry Areas
I C L A R M   International Center for Living Aquatic Resources Management
ICRW          International Center for Research on Women
ICSU          International Council for Science
IFAD          InternationalFundfor AgriculturalDevelopment
I F O A M     International Federationo f Organic Agriculture Movements
IFPRI         International Food Policy Research Institute
IICA          Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture
IPCC          International Panel o n Climate Change
IUCN          World ConservationUnion
KARI          Kyrgyz Agricultural Research Institute
K S T         Knowledge, science and technology
MA            Millennium EcosystemAssessment
MEA           MultilateralEnvironment Agreement
MDGs          Millennium Development Goals
MOU           Memorandum o f Understanding
N G O         Non-governmental organization
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OP            GEFOperationalProgram
Ramsar        Ramsar Convention on Wetlands
RII           Recipient ImplementingInstitution
SOFI          State o f Food Insecurity
TWAS          ThirdWorld Academy o f Sciences
UNCBD         UnitedNations Convention on Biological Diversity
UNCCD         UnitedNations Convention to Combat Desertification
UNDP          UnitedNations Development Program
UNEP          UnitedNations Environment Program
UNESCO        UnitedNations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFCCC        Framework Convention on Climate Change
WFC           World FishCenter (otherwise known as ICLARM)
WHO           World Health Organization
WSSD          World Summit on Sustainable Development

                          Vice President, ECA:             ShigeoKatsu
                         Vice President, ESSD:             IanJohnson
                                SectorManager:             JuergenVoegele
                             Task Team Leader:             Robert Watson

                                                       GLOBAL

     INTERNATIONAL ASSESSMENTOFAGRICULTURAL SCIENCE AND
                        TECHNOLOGY FORDEVELOPMENT (IAASTD)


                                                        Contents
                                                                                                                                              Page



A.               STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                                     .........................................  1

 1. Global Significance of the Agricultural Sector...................................................................                           1
 2. Rationale for Bank and GEF involvement..........................................................................                            2
 3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                4

B.               PROJECTDESCRIPTION                                .........................................................................    5

 1. Lendinginstrument............................................................................................................. 5
 2. Project development objective andkey indicators (see Annex 3) ......................................                                        5
 3. Project components .............................................................................................................            7
 5. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design............................................................                                8
 6. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection..............................................................                              9

C.               IMPLEMENTATION                          ................................................................................       11

 1. Partnership arrangements ..................................................................................................                 11

 2. Institutional and implementation arrangements (See Annex 6) ........................................                                        11
 3. Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results (see Annex 3) ........................................                                       12
 4. Sustainability & Replicability ...........................................................................................                  13
 5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                             14

 6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                          15

D.               APPRAISAL SUMMARY                               .........................................................................      16

 1. Economic and financial analyses (see Annex 9)...............................................................                                16
 2. Technical...........................................................................................................................        16
 3. Fiduciary...........................................................................................................................        16

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

4. Social.................................................................................................................................            17
5. Environment......................................................................................................................                  18
6. Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................                    18
7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                               19


  Annex 1:         Country and Sector or Program Background................................................                                           20
  Annex 2:         Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies .........22
  Annex 3:         Results Framework and Monitoring(Log Frame) ........................................                                               25
  Annex 4:         Detailed Description o f Project.....................................................................                              39
  Annex 6:         ImplementationArrangements                          ......................................................................         53
  Annex 7:          Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                                 ...........................     55
  Annex 8:         Procurement Arrangements ..........................................................................                                59
  Annex 9:         Economic andFinancial Analysis.................................................................                                    60
  Annex 10:        Safeguard Policy Issues ................................................................................                           73
  Annex 11:        Project Preparation and Supervision.............................................................                                   74
  Annex 12:        Documents inthe Project File.......................................................................                                75
  Annex 13:        Report o f the FirstPlenary Meeting o f the IAASTD.Nairobi.                                                   Kenya.......76
  Annex 14:        Decisions made at IAASTD BureauMeeting in Montpellier                                                    ......................    84
  Annex 15:        Relevance o f IAASTD to GEF OPERATIONAL PROGRAMS (OPs) AND
                   TO Workplans o fthe Multilateral Environmental Agreements (MEAs)                                                               .....90
  Annex 16:        Principles andProcedures Governing the InternationalAssessment o f
                   Agricultural Science and Technology for Development ..............................                                                 93
  Annex 17:        IAASTD Project Work Plan: 2006-2008 ....................................................                                          101

                                           GLOBAL


        INTERNATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCEAND
               TECHNOLOGY FOR DEVELOPMENT (IAASTD)PROJECT


                                   PROJECT DOCUMENT


Date: March 6,2006                                  Team Leader: Robert Watson
Vice President: IanJohnson                          Sectors: General agriculture, (100%);
Sector ManagedDirector: J.Voegele/K.Cleaver         Themes: Biodiversity; Land Management ;
Project ID: PO90963                                 Climate Change and Multi-focal
Focal Area: Multifocal
LendingInstrument: Grant




Total Project Cost (US$m.):                10.510
Cofinancing:                                7.510
Total Bank/GEF Financing                    3.000
(US$m.):

                  Source                           Local          Foreign              Total
GLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY                                                 3.000            3.OOO
OTHER COFINANCIERS                                                        7.510            7.510
Total:                                                                   10.510            10.510
                                            I                 I                   I
Grantees:
The World FishCenter (otherwise known as ICLARM), the African Center for Technology
Studies, the International Center for Agricultural Research inthe Dry Areas, and the Inter-
American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture
ProjectImplementationPeriod:April 15,2006 to June 30,2008
Start: April 15,2006


Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other              oYes X N o
significant respects? Ref. PAD A.3
Doesthe project require any exceptions from Bank policies? Ref.
PADD.7                                                               oYes X No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                         oYes oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?         oYes X N o

Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?            oYes
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                          X N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation? Ref.PAD XYes
D.7                                                                                   oNo

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Global Significance ofthe Agricultural Sector

Today, access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food i s the primary problem for nearly 800
million chronically undernourished people, the vast majority o f whom live in rural areas in
developing countries. In addition, the GDP o f many developing countries, especially in Africa,
i s highly dependent on the agricultural sector. As the global population increases to 8-10 billion
and as food preferences in the developing world change with rapid urbanization and increased
per capita income, the demand for food i s projected to double within the next 25-50 years,'
primarily in developing countries. The majority o f the world's people depend on agriculture,
directly or indirectly, for their livelihoods. Hence, the global community confronts the enormous
task o f ensuring nutritional security and enhancing rural livelihoods while reversing
environmental degradation, redressing social and gender inequity, and ensuring human health
and well-being (Annex 1).

Agricultural intensification has the capacity to enormously improve and increase productivity,
however, it can also result in severe environmental consequences. Some breeding techniques
and adoption o f high-yielding varieties can lead to erosion o f genetic resources; changes inland
cover can result in soil erosion, and consequently the loss of essential nutrients and decreased
water-holding capacity; pesticidesmay killnaturalpredators and beneficial insects; fertilizer and
pesticide applications can contaminate surface and ground water; and intensification can result
inincreased greenhouse gas emissions, such as methane andnitrous oxide, into the atmosphere,
with significant implications for the earth's climate. Inagricultural ecosystems, trace elements
and organic matter may be lost, leading to an inexorable decline in soil quality unless
environmentally sound agricultural practices are mainstreamedinto the productive landscape.

Lost, eroded and/or contaminated resources may complicate meeting the projected increase in
demand for agricultural products in some countries during the coming decades, but in many
developing countries, sub-optimal inputs remain a primary production constraint and hence
nutrient overloading i s not a problem. Inthese countries, fertilizer responsive crop varieties and
improved methodologies are needed to effectively prevent soil miningand nutrient depletion.

There are however, some other critical environmental and social factors facing the developing
world that may directly impede efforts to meet the projected demand for agricultural products.
These include less water available for crops due to an increase in use by other sectors; less
arable land due to urbanization and unsustainable agricultural practices; less labor due to
HIV/AIDS and rural to urban migration; increased levels o f acid deposition and tropospheric
ozone; and a changing climate with warmer temperatures, increasing variability of precipitation
and more extreme events.

To ensure the sustainability of the natural resource foundation and biodiversity on which
agricultural production (crop, livestock, fishery, forest, fiber and biomass) and hence, rural
livelihoods and nutritional security depend, will require that decision makers better understand
the economic, environmental, ethical and social considerations surrounding agricultural
knowledge, science and technology (AKST) and related policies. For example, some key
intermediary/intervening factors in agricultural production systems - markets, social norms and
customs (gender and ethnicity) - often determine resource ownership and control, and
consequently nutritional security.


      IUNFAO. Foodfor All. Rome, 1996.

                                                   1

The overall challenge i s a better understanding by those who make decisions on agricultural,
environmental and macroeconomic policy, at both the national and international levels, inboth
developed and developing countries, o f agricultural practices that are sustainable, economically
viable and environmentally positive. This better understanding can result in policies and
institutional arrangements that facilitate, rather than obstruct, the implementation o f sustainable
agriculture practices and advances in science and technology that contribute to more sustainable
practices, and improvethe overall performanceof the agricultural sector.

2. Rationale for Bank and GEFinvolvement

Recognizing the significant role o f agriculture in the economies o f developing countries, the
World Bank held a number o f meetings between 2001 and mid-2002, with the leaders in the
private sector and incivil society to discuss some o f the prominent issues inagricultural science
and technology. Participants shared their views on how to advance the role o f agricultural
science and technology in meeting future challenges to nutritional security and agricultural
productivity in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner. Some suggested that a
comprehensive, multidisciplinary assessmento f issues critical to policy formulation would have
great value for decision makers confronting conflicting views on a number o f issues concerning
agricultural science and technology, practices, policies and institutional effectiveness.

Recognizing how important such an international assessment could be to achieving the
Millennium Development Goals o f eradicating extreme hunger and poverty and ensuring
environmental sustainability, inAugust 2002, FA0 and the World Bank announced at the World
Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) inJohannesburg a global consultative process on
a proposed international assessment o f the role o f agricultural knowledge science and
technology in reducing hunger, improving rural livelihoods and stimulating environmentally
sustainable economic growth over the coming decades.

Participating in the IAASTD is fully compatible with the overall mission o f the World Bank,
i.e., fighting poverty and hunger, the role o f the World Bank as an Implementing Agency (IA)in
the GEF, as the major contributor to the CGIAR, and as a major lender for agricultural S&T
(Annex 2). Iti s also fully consistent with the World Bank Rural Development strategy and with
the World Bank Environment strategy. As the IA, the Bank brings a unique strength to the
Project by virtue o f the trust it developed among stakeholders during the consultative process
and by its convening power and ability to engage policymakers and key decision makers in
developing countries. The Bank also brings its role as an invaluable resource for promoting
investment opportunities in agricultural science and technology and mobilizing private sector,
bilateral, multilateral, and other government and non-government sector resources inefforts that
are consistent with GEF objectives and national sustainable development strategies. This Project
will enhance the capacity o f the World Bank to assist its member countries to better conserve
and sustainably use their biological diversity, reduce their emissions o f greenhouse gases,
manage their land, ecosystems and shared water bodies more sustainably.

The GEF intervention will provide the knowledge base for implementing the agricultural
dimension o f MDG7 on ensuring environmental sustainability, especially for target number 1to
integrate the principles o f environmental sustainability into country policies and programmes
and reverse the loss o f environmental resources. The IAASTD will also provide invaluable
informationwith respect to the hunger and poverty MDGs and the the agricultural element o f the
thematic cluster o f issues for the multi-year programme o f work o f the Commission on
Sustainable Development (CSD) for 2008/2009. In addition, the findings o f the IAASTD will


                                                   2

provide invaluable information for 12 GEF OperationalPrograms (see Table 1below). The GEF
intervention will also support the implementation of agricultural KST relevant aspects o f the
Multilateral Environmental Agreements such as the UnitedNations Convention on Biodiversity
(CBD), United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (CCD) and United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC),                             and will help mainstream
environmental considerations inagriculture.

    Table 1. Relevanceof IAASTD to GEF OperationalPrograms.

    For all relevant Operational Programs:




     1 Arid and Semi-arid Zone
      -                                       H o w can we reconcile immediate subsistence needs ofpastoralists and
     Ecosystems                               long-term environmental sustainability?
                                              What is the potential o f science and technology to improve crop traits,
                                              e.g., drought, salinity, and temperature tolerance, and to reduce the
                                              adverse impact o f livestock inthese environments?
                                              What can we learnfrom indigenous approaches to overcoming
                                              biophysical constraints (e.g., water quantity and quality, soil quality)
                                              to production?
     2 - Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater      What are the implications o f market access onnatural resources and
     Ecosystems                               endowments, such as fisheries?




     3 - Forest Ecosystems                    What are the relemnt trends andimplications for sustainable
                                              management o f forest, tree, and "wild lands" contributions to food
                                              security?
                                               What effect do property rights o f forest resources have on
                                              sustainability?
                                              H o w do we identify forest conservationpriorities intransboundary
                                              river basins, using UNEP's satellite-based study o f the planet's
                                              remaining closed forcsts?
                                              What is the relationship between forest biological diversity and
                                              ecosystem functioning intransboundary river basins inthe
                                              development and application o f techniques to restore forest ecosystem
                                              at the river basin level?
     4 Mountain Ecosystems
       -                                      What role do externalities play insustainable mountain ecosystem
                                              management?
                                              What is the role o f mountain ecosystems incarbon sequestration,
                                              erosion control, watershed renewal and in situ biodiversity

     6 - Promoting the Adoption o f           conservation?
                                              What are the economic and environmental, including species
     Renewable Energy by Removing             biodiversity, concerns surrounding biomass production?
     Barriers and Reducing Implementation     What is the potential for reducing external and energy-intensive inputs
     costs
     8 - Waterbody-based                      associated with agriculture?
                                              H o w canwe diagnose assimilation levels inlarge marine ecosystems
                                              (LMEs)?
                                              What methodologies can be usedto effectively forecast Total
                                              Admissible Catch inLMEs? What policies would effectively address
                                              correcting the existing system o f fish catch control, includingthe use


                                                    3

                                                       o f satellite monitoring and compulsion methods?
                                                       What institutional measuresprovide transparency inmanagement
                                                       systems for fish quotas?
                                                       Are there methodologiesfor integratedecologic-economic assessment
                                                       o f LMEs? Do the existing concepts o f owner rights o fbiological water
                                                       resources facilitate sustainable production?
                                                       What subsidypolicies for fisheries contribute to sustainable

    9 - Integrated Land and Water Multiple             production?
                                                       H o w can information and space technologies be used to facilitate more
    Focal Area for International Waters                sustainable management o f integratedland andwater resources?
                                                       What methods and technologies can be used torestore lands in
                                                       watersheds degradedby different types o f human activities?
                                                       Can crop water productivity be improved through utilizing a systems
                                                       approach at different spatial scales, i.e., plants, fields, farms, agro-
                                                       ecological systems (rain-fed and irrigated), and river basim, especially
                                                       inhighwater stress areas?
                                                       What technologies and policies are most effective at conserving water
                                                       duringriceproduction?
     12 - IntegratedEcosystemManagement     What are the social and economic impacts o f integrated ecosystem management?

     13 - Conservation and Sustainable Use  What is the importance o f intellectual property rights to conservation and the
    of BiologicalDiversity Important to     sustainable use o fbiodiversity that is important to agriculture?
    Agriculture
     14 Persistent Organic Pollutants
        -                                   How canwe preventthe contamination o f our naturalresources by POPSand
                                            ensure that contaminated products do not enter the foodchain?

                                            How canwe encourage suchpractices, as Integrated Pest Management, inareas
                                            where extensionservices are limited?
     15 Sustainable LandManagement
        -                                   What kinds o fpartnershipsamong stakeholders will effectively contribute to
                                            sustainable land management?

                                            What are the amounts and kinds of soil amendments that will be needed inthe
                                            future? Is a continuation o fpast practices sufficient? Will more attention to the
                                            root-soil interface be necessary or beneficial?
     Adaptation to Climate Change           What are the sensitivities of agricultural practices and ago-ecosystems to
                                            climate variation and climate change?

                                            H o w can ago-ecosystems contribute to mitigating climate change?

                                            H o w applicable are the scientific approaches and technical solutions o f today to
                                            the projections o ffuture changes?


3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The agricultural practices, technologies, policies and institutional arrangements responsible for
increasing agricultural productivity over the last decades are considered to have caused major
environmental degradation (Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA), 2005). Intensification
has led to soil erosion, contributed to climate change, and contaminated surface and ground
waters with phosphorus, nitrogen and pesticides. With improved practices, technologies, policies
and institutional arrangements inplace, the condition o f natural resources and ecosystems canbe
conserved while meeting the projected increased demand for agricultural products over the next
decades.*

However, decision makers - in the production field and the international a r e n a 4 0 not have
readily available access to knowledge that would allow them to make informed decisions. Some
of this information resides with local producers who have used long-established, adapted
practices that have resulted in sustainable production systems in some areas (e.g., arid, semi-
arid, mountainous) for years. In some cases, knowledge resides in institutional systems that
often lack sufficient cultural grounding to be acceptable, or available to user communities.

* Agricultural products include crops, forest products, livestock, fisheries, biomass and non-food products


                                                              4

Decision makers need access to institutional and local knowledge to be able to make wise and
appropriate choices concerning nutritional security, health and environmental sustainability in
the coming decades inthe issues surrounding agriculture.


B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The US$10.5 10millionproject would be partially financed by four GEF medium-sized grants in
the aggregated amount o f US$3.00 million. Confirmed cofinanciers include: (i) World Bank
                                                                               The
(US$1.56 million from Bank Budget and US$1.5 million from a DGF grant), (ii)             UNEP
(US$0.720 million in kind), (iii), UNESCO (US$0.225 million in kind), (iv) FA0 (US$0.225
million in kind); (iv) UNDP (US$lO thousand in kind), (v) the Governmant of Finland
(US$0.350 million); and (vi) a multi-donor trust fund o f US$2.920 million from the
Governments o f Australia, Canada, the European Commission, France, Ireland, Switzerland, the
UK,the USA and the private sector (the Bank has receivedwritten and verbal commitments of
US $2.625      million to-date). The European Commission, Switzerland and the USA are
considering additional contributions next year, and several other governments are currently
considering financial contributions.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjective and key indicators(see Annex 3)

The Panel o f participating governments, taking into account the views o f the cosponsoring
agencies (World Bank, FAO, WHO, UNEP, UNESCO, UNDP and GEF) and other stakeholders
(private sector, NGOs, producer and consumer groups, international organizations, and the
scientific community) at the IAASTD Intergovernmental Plenary held in Nairobi from 30
August to 3 September 2004, agreed on the objectives, goals, scope, key questions, design,
preparation and peer review processes, outputs, timetable, budget and governance structure o f
the IAASTD (Annex 13). The Bureau to the Panel includes 30 representatives from national
governments and 30representatives from civil society and international organizations.

Development obiective: The proposedproject i s to improve access to agricultural KST that will
promote and facilitate sustainable agricultural practices with the aim to improve nutritional
security, enhance rural livelihoods while reversing environmental degradation, redressing social
and gender inequity, and ensuring human health and well-being. Towards this overall objective,
the projects specific objectives are to:

    Undertake one global and five sub-global assessments (Sub-Saharan Africa; South and East
    Asia and the Pacific; Latin America and the Caribbean; Central and West Asia and North
    Africa; and North America and Europe) o f the role o f agricultural K S T in reducing hunger
    and poverty, improving rural livelihoods, and health, and facilitating equitable,
    environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development;
    Provide robust informationfor decision makers on how to ensure that policies, practices and
    institutional arrangements enable agricultural KST to help reduce hunger and poverty,
    improve rural livelihoods and health, and facilitate equitable, environmentally, socially and
    economically sustainable development; and
    Bring together the range of stakeholders (governments, NGOs, private sector, producers,
    consumers, the CGIAR and others in the scientific community, MEAs and international
    agencies, including the GEF) involved in the agricultural sector and rural development to
    share experiences, views, and gain commonunderstanding and vision for the future.


                                               5

Development indicators:

   Appropriate policies, regulations, incentive structures, are developedto support sustainable
   agricultural management
   The capacity o f institutions is strengthened to design and implement sustainable
   management approaches
   Investments are made to address local, national, and global environmental issues within the
   context o f sustainable development
0  Improvement o f agricultural productivity under sustainable management, while enhancing
   the livelihoods o f producers

Global Environment Obiective: Application o f the knowledge generated through the IAASTD
should provide significant local, national, regional and global environmental benefits, including
reducing the overall rate o f natural resource loss and land degradation, enhancing landscape
biodiversitybothinareas of land use and inprotected areas, reducing the rate o f soil, runoff and
nutrient losses, diminishing the contamination and eutrophication o f fresh waters and soils,
reducing the rate o f greenhouse gas emissions, and increasing the amount o f carbon fixed in
agricultural systems. This would be achieved if the knowledge generated by the IAASTD i s
used to design and implement appropriate policies, regulations and incentive structures to
support integrated natural resource and agricultural management, and to stimulate investments to
address local, national, and global environmental issues within the context o f sustainable
development.      The IAASTD will also strengthen the capacity o f institutions to design and
implement integrated management approaches, and provide information highly relevant to the
work plans o f the Multilateral Agreements (Table 2 below). Sustainable agricultural practices
will directly, and through improved natural resource management, contribute to improving
people's livelihoods, food security and health.

Global Environmental indicators:

   Appropriate policies, regulations and incentive structures are developed to support integrated
   natural resource management
    The capacity o f institutions strengthened to design and implement integrated natural resource
   management
0   Overall rate o f natural resource loss and land degradationreduced
0   Overall landscape biodiversity enhanced both inareas o f landuse and inprotectedareas
0   Rate of soil, runoff and nutrient losses reduced
0   Contamination and eutrophication o f fresh waters and contamination o f soils diminished
0   Rate of greenhouse gas emissions reduced, and more carbon fixed from agricultural systems

    Table 2:     Relevance of IAASTD to Workplans of the Multilateral Environmental
   Agreements (MEAs)

  UnitedNationConvention         Relevant questions
  Convention on Biological          How have past changes inagricultural biodiversity affected rural
  Diversity (UNCBD)                 livelihoods and nutritional security?
                                    What are the impacts o f climate change o n agricultural biodiversity and
                                    loss o f agricultural biodiversity on climate change?
                                    What are the current and projected conditions of agricultural
                                    biodiversity?




                                                     6

   Convention to Combat          0 H o w does desertification affect the prevalence o f poverty and
   Desertification (UNCCD)         malnutrition?
                                 0 Does a reduction indesertification help poverty alleviation strategies
                                   and improve nutritional security?

   Framework Convention on       0 What are the impacts o f climate change on agricultural biodiversity and
   Climate Change (UNFCCC)         loss o f agricultural biodiversity on climate change?
                                 0 What are the implications o f climate change for agricultural production,
                                   rural livelihoods and nutritional security?


3. Projectcomponents

The project objectives would be achieved by supporting activities associated with the following
five components (component 1 has already been completed using co-financing). For details on
component description see Annex 4.

Component 1- Development of a Conceptual Framework and annotatedoutlines for the
global and sub-global assessments (US $0.600 million, o f which none is from GEF financing,
5.71% o f total project cost). Activities include: (i)   selection of design team; (ii) and sub-
                                                                                          global
global design team meetings;        (iii)integrated design team meeting;             (iv) design o f the
Conceptual Framework; and (v) approval o f the Conceptual Framework and annotated outlines
byBureau.

Component 2 - Global Assessment (US $1.430 million, of which US $0.690 million is from
GEF financing, 13.61 percent o f total project cost). Activities include: (i)       selection o f authors;
(ii) preparation o f chapters, Summary for Decision Makers and the Synthesis Report; (iii)           two-
step peer review by experts and governments; and (iv) accepted and approved by governments.

The global assessment will address gender issues in all four sections: (i)           Context, Concepts,
Historicaland Current Perspectives; (ii)    Plausible Futures; (iii)  Options for MakingAKST Work
Better to Achieve the Development and Sustainability Goals: Technology and Capacity; and (iv)
Options for Making AKST Work Better to Achieve the Development and Sustainability Goals:
Investment and Policy.

Component3 -Five Sub-globalAssessments (US $3.140 million, of which U S $1.961 million
i s from GEF financing, 29.88 percent o f total project cost). Activities include: (i)selection o f
authors; (ii) preparation o f chapters, Summaries for Decision Makers and the Synthesis Report;
(iii)two-steppeer reviewbyexperts andgovernments; and (iv) accepted andapprovedby
governments. The sub-global assessments will use the same Conceptual Framework and basic
structure as the global assessment with a focus on priority issues for region.

Component 4 - Outreach and Communications (US $1.480 million, o f which U S $0.349
million i s from GEF financing, 14.08 percent o f total project cost). Activities include: (i)
Development o f a web site, which will include a compilation o f all relevant documents, e.g.,
annotated outlines o f the global and sub-global assessment reports; the Conceptual Framework;
authors and review editors,         meeting schedules; (ii)development o f outreach and
communications strategy by Bureau and Secretariat; (iii)         Targeted outreach to key user goups
using media, workshops and conferences; (iv) Publication and distribution o f global and sub-
global assessment reports; (v) Availability o f global and sub-global assessment reports on web
(www.aaassessment.orq); and (vi) Monitoring o f uptake o f IAASTDproducts.



                                                    7

Component 5 - Project Management and Administration (US $3.860 million, o f which none
i s from GEF financing, 36.73 percent o f total project cost). Activities include: (i)          Selection o f
Secretariat staff; (ii)Selection o f Bureau members; (iii)       Selection o f IAASTD Co-chairs; (iv)
budget management; (v) organization of all meetings (author and Plenary / Bureau); (vi)
Management ofpeer review process; and (viii) editing and printing o f the global and sub-global
assessmentreports.

Sector Issues Addressed in the Proiect.

The IAASTD will assess the efficacy o f the generation, access, dissemination and use o f
agricultural KST, integrating local (including indigenous) and institutional knowledge,
emphasizing gender issues. The knowledge gained from a historical analysis (past 50 years) and
the insights gained from an analysis o f plausible futures (now to 2050) will form the basis for
assessing options for action.

The IAASTD will integrate biophysical factors and socio-economic driving forces and will
bringthe best available informationto bear on analyzing how agricultural KST can be used to
reduce hunger and poverty, improve rural livelihoods and health, increase incomes and facilitate
equitable, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development at global,
regional, national and local scales. The IAASTD will build global and sub-global (community
to regional) assessment capacities to undertake integrated scientific assessments o f agricultural
KST, andbuildownership to implement actionbaseduponthe evidence inthe assessments. This
may result in catalyzing additional sub-global assessments at the local, national and regional
levels.3

The IAASTD will provide information on contentious, complex topics such as biosciences, but
it will not set goals or advocate specific policies or practices. It will be policy relevant, butnot
policy prescriptive, assessing options for action. The IAASTD will integrate scientific
information on a range o f topics that are critically interlinked, but are often addressed
independently, i.e., agriculture, poverty, hunger, natural resources, and development.                    The
IAASTD will enable decision makers to bringricher base of knowledge to bear on policy and
management decisions on issues previously viewed inan isolated context.

 The IAASTD will focus on assessing the demand for agricultural products and the
 environmental, social and economic consequences o f meeting this demand under a range o f
plausible futures. The analysis o f plausible futures will acknowledge both endogenous and
 exogenous drivers. The analysis o f the consequences o f meeting demand within this range o f
 scenarios will be grounded inhistorical lessons

 5. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

 While a number o f global assessments o f sub-sectors related to agriculture are available and
 form part o f the baseline o f this project, no assessment o f agricultural KST at global and sub-
 global levels has previously been attempted that fully integrates environmental and social
 concerns with agricultural productivity, livelihoods and human health issues. All previous
 assessments have limitations for the purpose o f this project, which i s an integrated scientific


  The IAASTD is likelyto the stimulatethe preparationof a number of sub-globalassessments ina manner similar
 to the MillenniumEcosystemAssessment, whichhas a significant number of affiliatedsub-globalassessments, not
 funded bythe MA. Inaddition, a number of governmentswho attendedthe first intergovernmentalplenarymeeting
 of the IAASTD inNairobistatedthat they would consider preparinga national assessment as input to the global and
 sub-globalassessments.

                                                      8

assessment o f the role o f agricultural KST in development.         Earlier assessments looked at
technologies for specific purposes inagriculture (e.g., soil conservation - WOCAT framework),
and hence were highly selective, or they surveyed specific environmental assets with little, if
any, connection to development goals.

Frameworks and approaches commonly employed in earlier assessments, which have been
reviewed for the IAASTD, include quantitative frameworks such as in Global Forum for
Agricultural Research (GFAR) and qualitative as in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) reports and the MA. The most relevant framework for the IAASTD i s the MA,
which linked drivers to ecosystem services to human well being. It is not surprising that there
are no standardised frameworks, because each earlier assessment addressed a different range o f
issues. Most of the findings from these assessments will provide useful information for some
elements o f the IAASTD even though the findings cannot be integrated to address the range o f
questions being addressed inthe IAASTD. Inmost cases, the scope o f the assessments has been
limited, i.e., they have not been multi-thematic or multi-temporal, and have not addressed the
policy, institutional and research issuesproposed for IAASTD. Furthermore, inmost cases they
are not adequately linked with policy and decision making processes, and none have a
governance structure or outreach and communications strategy that involves the full range o f
stakeholders.

The governance structure o f the IAASTD is a hybrid version o f the IPCC, which i s
intergovernmental, and the MA, which is non-governmental. The IAASTD i s intergovernmental
with a multi-stakeholder Bureau comprising of 30 government representatives and 30
representatives from civil society. This governance structure should ensure ownership o f the
process and findings by the full range o f stakeholders. Basedon experiences o f the international
ozone assessments, the Global Biodiversity Assessment (GBA), the IPCC and the MA, the
following list o f characteristics have been found to be crucial for previous successful
assessments and will be employed by the IAASTD:

9 Involve the best experts from all stakeholder groups in their individual capacity in the
    design, preparationandpeer review;
9 Conductaccordingto anopen, transparent, representativeandlegitimateprocess;
9 Evidence-based, notbasedonvalue systems;
9 Policyrelevant, notpolicyprescriptive,presentingoptionsnotrecommendations;
9 Encompassriskassessment, management andcommunication;
9 Technically accurate;
9 Assess local, regionalandglobalperspectives asappropriate;
9 Presentdifferent views, withquantification ofuncertainties, where possible; and
9 Identifythe keyscientificuncertaintiesandareaswhere research couldbefocused.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

The key design features o f the proposed IAASTD that were debated included the
rationalehalue-added, goals, scope, scale, outputs, assessment characteristics, management and
governance structures, composition and location o f secretariat, budget and funding philosophy.
The key issues were:

    0   Scope: narrow versus broad: Le., focus only on the factors that determine agricultural
        productivity, versus a full assment o f the role o f agricultural KST in addressing hunger,
        poverty and human health inan environmentally and socially sustainable manner;



                                                  9

        Scale: global and/or sub-global, i.e., focus only on the key global issues or address both
        global and key sub-global issues;
        Knowledge systems: i.e., use only institutional peer reviewed literature or include local
        (traditional and indigenous) knowledge;
        Governance structure: i.e., an intergovernmental, non-governmental or ahybrid system;
        Management structure: i.e., one co-sponsoring agency versus multiple co-sponsoring
        agencies, and a centralizedversus distributed secretariat;
        Assessment characteristics: in particular whether the assessment should make policy
        recommendations or whether it should be policy relevant, but not policy prescriptive,
        identifyingoptions for action;
        Financing: Le., criteria for accepting funding;

The final design features were approved during the first intergovernmental meeting inNairobi,
Kenya in September/October 2004, based on the recommendations o f the steering committee,
with careful consideration o f the outcomes from the regional meetings, the web site, and the
Steering Committee meetings in Cork, Ireland (12-13 June 2003) and Budapest, Hungary (3 1
July - 2 August 2003). The IAASTD project has brought together a wide range o f stakeholders
(governments; NGOs; private sector; producers; consumers; the scientific community, including
the CGIAR; MEAs; and international agencies, including the GEF) involved in the agricultural
and rural development sectors to design and implement the IAASTD and to share views and
gain a common understanding and vision for the future.

The final design o f the IAASTD i s multi-thematic (agriculture; hunger, nutrition and human
health; poverty, livelihoods and economic growth; and environmental and social sustainability)
rather than a narrow agricultural productivity focus; multi-spatial (local to national to regional to
global) rather than global only as many o f the challenges in the agricultural sector are "place-
based"; multi-temporal (historical to present to future) so that options for action can take into
account both what has happened to date and what may happen in the future; and utlize both
institutional and local knowledge, especially inthe sub-global assessments. The IAASTD will
be co-sponsored by seven international agencies (World Bank, FAO, WHO, UNEP, UNESCO,
UNDP and GEF) giventhat the assessment will address agricultural issues (FAO), development
issues (World Bank and UNDP), health issues (WHO), environmental issues (UNEP and GEF)
and scientific issues (UNESCO), and between them will manage a distributed secretariat. The
IAASTD will be intergovernmental, but with a multi-stakeholder Bureau, and involve experts
from all stakeholder groups in the design, preparation and peer review o f the global and sub-
global assessments, to ensure ownership o f the process and findings. The assessment will be
policy relevant, but not policy prescriptive. A well-defined set o f principles and procedures
have been established to ensure that the IAASTD process will be open, transparent and
legitimate.

Therefore, the project's design reflected the desire o f stakeholders to assess in an integrated and
interdisciplinary way questions concerning agriculture, climate, biodiversity, natural resources,
hunger, poverty and development, which will enable decision-makers to better understand the
connections between what they may have previously seen as isolated issues.               The highly
participatory design process addressed both issues o f technical and geographic scope. They
rejected the typical country- and region-specific agricultural development assessments and
emphasized instead the need to assess agriculture inthe broadest terms, hence to include issues
o frural livelihoods, hunger, and the incorporation o f traditional knowledge.




                                                 10

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The Heads o f the FAO, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, World Bank, WHO and GEF have agreed to
co-sponsor the IAASTD. In addition, the Secretary-General o f the United Nations, Mr. Kofi
Annan, has assured full cooperation and support for this project. The IAASTD will have a
distributed Secretariat based at the World Bank in Washington, D.C, FA0 in Rome, UNEP in
Nairobi and UNESCO inParis, with each Agency providing in-kindsupport inthe form o f staff
time and travel for the Secretariat. The Secretariat will provide management and oversight o f
the project, including monitoring the implementation and execution o f the project; ensure
coordination among the global and sub-global assessments; manage the peer review process,
provide technical support, and oversee communications and outreach.         The Director o f the
Secretariat and the IAASTD Chairs are jointly responsible for the intellectual leadership o f the
project. Inaddition to the GEF funding and the in-kindagency staff support, the World Bank i s
also providing financial support through the DGF and i s managing a multi-donor trust fund.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements(See Annex 6)

Members o f the distributed Secretariat will coordinate/oversee one or more o f the global and
sub-global assessments. The World Bank will have overall responsibility for the global
assessment, working closely with the other cosponsoring agencies intheir area o f expertise, and
the sub-global assessments in East and South Asia and the Pacific (ESAP), Central and West
Asia and North Africa (CWANA), and NorthAmerica and Europe (NAE); FA0 will coordinate
the plausible futures work; and UNESCO will be responsible for Latin America and the
Caribbean. UNEP will be responsible for Sub-Saharan Africa and issues pertaining to the
environment on the all o f the reports. Each sub-global assessment, except for NorthAmerica and
Europe, will be managedby a regional institute: the World Fish Center for ESAP; the African
Centre for Technology Studies (ACTS) for SSA; the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation
on Agriculture (IICA) for LAC; and the International Center for Agricultural Research in the
DryAreas (ICARDA) for CWANA.

The Panel o f participating governments will meet inplenary to accept the global and sub-global
assessments and approve the Summaries for Decision Makers and the Synthesis Report. The
multi-stakeholder Bureau will select the design teams, chairs, authors and review editors for the
assessment and ensure a balance o f disciplines, views, regional representation and gender. The
Bureau also has a fundraising and financial sub-committee with oversight responsibilities for the
budget, and a communications and outreach sub-committee to assist the secretariat develop and
implement an appropriate outreach and communications strategy. Roles and responsibilities o f
all components o f the IAASTD management structure are discussed in Annex 16 Principles
                                                                                    -
and Procedures governing the IAASTD, which are modeled on those used by IPCC and MA,
and approved by the Bureau inDecember 2004. The Secretariat liaises with governments, civil
society organizations and the Bureau to facilitate project implementation. The IAASTD work
plan i s inAnnex 17.

The World Bank will act as the GEF Implementing Agency (IA) responsible for coordination
with GEF Secretariat, and will manage the multi-donor trust hnd. The World Fish Center
(otherwise known as ICLARM), ACTS, ICARDA, and IICA will be the Recipient Implementing
Institutions for the GEF funds.      The African Centre for Technology Studies and the Inter-
American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture will act as Recipient Implementing
Institutions for the World Bank's DGF grant.       The GEF resources will be used to provide


                                                11

financial support to experts approved by the Bureau to participate in lead author meetings;
honoraria/stipends for developing and developed country experts using criteria established by
the Bureau; Bureau-selected regional institutes to manage the preparation and peer review of the
sub-global assessments; Bureau and Plenary meetings, including travel expenses o f eligible
participants; partial salary for the developing country co-chair; and publication and translation
costs of the final reports.    All expenses are consistent with the Bureau decisions taken in
Montpellier, France inMay 2005.

The Recipient ImplementingInstitutions will be involved in all aspects o f the assessment and
ensure high quality technical implementation; however, UNEP will pay particular attention to
the environmental dimensions, while FA0 will pay particular attention to the plausible futures
and agricultural dimensions o f the IAASTD. Collaboration between the IA and the EAs
(UNDP, UNEP, FAO, UNESCO, World Fish Center, ICARDA, ACTS and IICA) will be
ensured through e-mails, teleconferences, and regular meetings associated with meetings o f the
design teams, authors and Bureau. Budget analysts within the Secretariat will work together to
ensure financial implementation is transparent and responsible.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomedresults (see Annex 3)

Project execution: The management and supervision o f project activities will be monitored by
the IAASTD Secretariat, and the Panel o f participating governments through the Bureau (See
Annex 16). The monitoring and evaluation of progress on timeliness o f activities and quality o f
outputs will be an ongoing responsibility o f the IAASTD Secretariat, and includes reviewing
budgets against agreed work programs and outputs, as reflected in the Project Perfonnance
indicators in the Logical framework (Annex 3). The Bureau will convene four times over the
course o f the project to assess and review annual work plans, provide specific input on ways to
improve project execution, and assess progress made toward the stated goals o f IAASTD using
performance criteria in the Logical framework. Evaluations o f progress will be documented in
minutes o f meetings and in semi-annual progress reports to the IAASTD Secretariat, Co-
sponsoring Agencies, Panel o f participating governments and donors. The Secretariat will be
responsible for making improvements when inadequacies are noted and taking corrective action.
The project's scientific outputs will be subjected to two government and expert peer reviews.
The Secretariat and a set o f independent review editors will be responsible for ensuring that
authors adequately address comments by peer reviewers.

Independent mid-tern and final evaluations will be conducted by external evaluators to assess
the project's performance in achieving strategic goals and objectives. The evaluators will be
contractedby the World Bank, in consultation with the World FishCenter (otherwise known as
ICLARM), ACTS, ICARDA, and IICA andthe other co-sponsoring agencies.

Project performance:       Internal evaluation will be conducted by the World Fish Center
(otherwise known as ICLAFM), ACTS, ICARDA, IICA, the World Bank and the IAASTD
Secretariat. Performance indicators will be as delineated in the Logical framework. (Annex 3).
The quality of the global and sub-global assessments will be ensured through two rounds o f
expert and government peer review, with an independent set o f chapter review editors. The final
assessment reports will be approved at a plenary meeting o f governments and other
stakeholders.

Impact evaluation: Since the primary outputs (global and sub-global assessment reports) will
not be disseminated until the completion o f the project, determination o f impact will occur post-



                                                12

project. The cosponsoring agencies, however, will monitor web site usage during the project to
assess effectiveness o f electronic outreach to stakeholders.

4. Sustainability& Replicability

Sustainability: Sustainability has been optimizedby ensuringthe full range o f stakeholders have
ownership in the IAASTD process and findings through their involvement inthe Bureau and in
the design, preparation and peer review of the reports. The multistakeholder Bureau i s also
responsible for overseeing the outreach and communications strategy to ensure wide
dissemination and use o f the findings.

The World Bank, UNEP, FA0 and UNESCO have committed financial resources, both cash and
in-kindsecretariat support. Inaddition, a number of governments and the private sector have
already committed funds in writing to a multi-donor trust fund managed by the World Bank
(including Australia, Canada, European Commission, France, Ireland, Switzerland, UK, USA
and the private sector), and Finlandhas provided funds towards the staff costs o f the Secretariat.
Details on Project Cost and Cofinancing can be found in Annex 5.            OECD governments,
organizations and institutions will be primarily responsible for supporting participation o f
developed country nationals.

The IAASTD will build sub-global assessment capacities to undertake integrated scientific
assessments o f agricultural KST, and build ownership to implement action based upon the
evidence in the assessments.       They will also help build synergy between regions in the
development o f an internally consistent framework and will promote and extend linkages and
partnerships that will enhance sustainable development.

GEF resources are critical to supporting the environmental aspects o f the initiative, and in
conjunction with the multi-donor trust fund will be used, among other things, to support
developing country participation and the regional institutes. GEF support for the participation o f
specialists from developing countries and countries with transitioning economies will enhance
the sub-global, national and local capacity-building components o f the Project as specialists
come together to share and assess knowledge and learn how to conduct effective scientific
assessments.

The four Recipient Implementing Institutions, the World Fish Center (otherwise known as
ICLARM), ACTS, ICARDA and IICA will assist with implementing the sub-global assessments
and engaging local scientists in project implementation. The involvement o f these institutions
will ensure the inclusion and support of regional and local capacity and ground the IAASTD in
regional and local concerns.

Replicability: The IAASTD has been designed to incorporate the positive characteristics o f
previous international assessments such as the IPCC, GBA, MA and the stratospheric ozone
assessments.

The regional institutions will use their substantial existing expertise as well as benefit from this
additional experience gained inmanaging these sub-global assessments and in liaising with the
authors in their respective regions. The institutions will benefit from the exposure to a large
realm o f technical expertise and from south-to-south exchanges as they work to harmonize the
sub-global assessments.      The involvement o f local experts in conducting the sub-global
assessments will contribute to the effectiveness o f the Project by providing a resource base for
future regional and national assessments.


                                                  13

This design and implementation structure will allow for the needs of multiple institutions and
users to be addressed and will facilitate the continuation of IAASTD endeavors at the local,
regional, national and global levels. It i s anticipated that the use of IAASTD outputs will spread
beyond the immediate stakeholders directly involved in the project.                      It is likely that the
experience gained during the IAASTD will result in additional sub-global assessments being
performed, especially at the national and regional level.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

No issues have been identified that might pose reputational risks to the Bank or GEF. Even
though the assessment will address controversial issues such as transgenic crops, the assessment
will only assess policy options; itwill notmake policy recommendations.

The major potential risks that may affect project success and their respective mitigation
measuresincorporated into project design are:
              Risks                                Risk Mitigation Measures                       RiskRating
                                                                                                 wl Mitigation
 Improved information and       The project designand decisionmakingprocess brought              M
 knowledge does not in          togetherrelevantstakeholdersfrom key governmental, NGO,
 aggregate leadto better        producer, consumer, scientific and private sector organizations.
 management decisions           Key issues and questionswere agreed and a process set inplace
                                to insurewell informed decisionsinthe future.
 GEF IAs and EAs are            GEF I A s and EAs are fully involved inall aspects ofthe         M
 unableto mainstream            IAASTD process. Relevantinternal committees havebeen
 IAASTD information into        establishedto insure IAASTD resultsare mainstreamedinto
 programs and activities        each organizationsprogramming.
 Insufficient involvement of    Many ofthe countrieswhich are participating inthe IAASTD,        L/N
 international scientific       have also participatedinthe IPPC, the MA andthe MDG
 community                      processes.Participating governmentshavenominated excellent
                                experts as authors.All stakeholder groups nominated excellent
                                experts for the design team meetings,which were well
                                attended.
 Insufficient involvement of    Given the high level of participation during the designprocess,  M
 relevant stakeholders,         the projectsemphasis on an institutional framework with multi-
  including local communities   stakeholder involvement, prospects for continued participation
                                are very good. The lack of remuneration for authorswill limit
                                t~
                                The World Bank, UNEP, F A 0 and UNESCO have all
 ~~~
  Participating groups and                                                                       LM
  institutions do not assign    committed staff resources, which are complementedby
  adequate staff to carry out   additional staff funded by Finland and through the Multi-donor
 projectsactivities.            Trust Fund
  Unforeseentechnical or        UNEP andthe World Bank have significant prior experience         L/N
  logistical difficulties       with internationalassessmentsincludingtheInternational
                                StratosphericOzone Assessment, the Global Biodiversity
                                Assessment, the A, and the IPCC.
  Decision-makersat all         The Global and Subglobal consultative processwas widely          L/N
  levels are unable and/or      attendedby governmentofficials from over 100 countries.
  unwillingto enter into the    They participatedactively inthe designprocess, and will
  dialogue on agricultural      participateinthe nomination of authors,peerreview and
  KST                           fi
  OECD governments,             This issue was raisedat the secondBureaumeeting and is           M
  organizationsand              being addressed,but not in a consistentmanner.
  institutions are unwilling to
  financeparticipation of their
  experts



                                                         14

I The institutional           IExperience through the consultative process and at the first twoIL/N     I
  arrangements (Panel,         Bureaumeetings has been very positive. Routine
  Bureau, Secretariat and      teleconferences among members of the Secretariat have been
  management entities) have    implementedand will be part o f the project's coordination
  difficulty functioning in a  mechanisms.
  well-coordinated, effective
   and harmonious manner.
I1 The assessment is o f low   The experts involved in the assessment are world class and the
   qualit                                                                                              1
H=High;S = Substantial; M=Modest; LM=LowMegligible

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

None




                                                      15

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic andfinancialanalyses(see Annex 9)

While an Economic and Financial analysis would not be applicable, the project's design
includes cost effectiveness considerations to promote maximum implementation effectiveness,
and replicationand impact o fproject results.

The proposed approach has been designed to be cost-effective by having a smaller secretariat
than previous assessments like the IPCC or MA, by only paying for the travel expenses
(economy class) o f developing country experts and by not paying for the time o f the experts to
design, prepare and peer review the IAASTD (as in the IPCC). International assessments that
endeavor to encourage and support the participation o f specialists from developing countries and
countries with economies intransition inherently cost more than similar activities that rely solely
on experts from developed countries. However, the inclusion o f a broad range o f experts from
developing countries i s a major strength o f the global and sub-global components o f the Project.
The engagement o f experts from all stakeholder groups inall aspects o f the Assessment (design,
drafting and reviewing) ensures that the appropriate questions are being addressed and that the
knowledge o f experts i s fully utilized. It also ensures ownership o f the process and findings by
all stakeholder groups, facilitates communication o f the results and hence greatly contributes to
the effectiveness o f the Project. The cost-effectiveness of the outreach and communications is
facilitated by using the already established networks o f the different stakeholder groups, i.e.,
cosponsoring agencies, MEAs, governments, private sector, NGOs, consumers, producers, the
CGIAR and scientific community, extension services, etc.

2. Technical

The IAASTD builds upon a wealth o f other assessment activities. Conceptual frameworks and
approaches commonly employed, which have been reviewed for the IAASTD, include
quantitative frameworks such as in GFRA and qualitative as in the IPCC reports and the MA.
The most relevant framework for the IAASTDwas determined to be a variant o f the MA, which
links drivers to ecosystem services to human well being. One key element o f the IAASTD,
analogous to the IPCC, GEO and MA, i s the use o f scenarios to investigate plausible future
worlds. Most o f the findings from earlier assessmentswill provide useful information for some
elements o f the IAASTD even though the findings cannot be integrated to address the range o f
questions being addressed inthe IAASTD. Inmost cases, the scope o f the assessments has been
limited, i.e., they have not been multi-thematic or multi-temporal, and have not addressed the
policy, institutional and research issues proposed for IAASTD, nor have they examined
plausible futures.

3. Fiduciary
(See Annexes 7 and 8for more information on Financial Management and Procurement,
respectively)

The project will have four implementing agencies: The World FishCenter (otherwise known as
ICLARM), the African Center for Technology Studies (ACTS), the International Center for
Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), and the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA). Conducted Financial Management assessments were based
on the Bank's overall review o f the financial management rules and regulations o f each



                                                  16

organization, the analysis o f the latest available audited financial statements and management
letters prepared by the external auditors, and on internal World Bank inquiries.

Following the detailed review o f information listed above, the World Bank concluded that
ICLARh4, ACTS and ICARDA have established financial management arrangements in place,
which meet the minimum requirements to the organization implementing the World Bank-
financed project and lower the project riskto modest.

While IICA has established financial management arrangements in place, the risk posed by
placing Bank funds into this environment is still substantial. Mitigating measures have been
proposedto lower the project risk.

The project's disbursements will be transaction-based and will be made on the basis o f the
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Each implementing agency will be responsible for the
periodical (based on the disbursement needs) preparation o f their respective SOEs. While
ICLARh4, ACTS and ICARDA will open a Special Account for the project disbursement
purposes, IICA would operate by prepaying eligible project expenditures according to the
implementation program, and subsequently submitting reimbursement applications, supported
byallrequired documentation.

4. Social

Stakeholder Participation.

The strategic approach for stakeholder involvement in the Project i s based on lessons learned
from the International Stratospheric Ozone Assessments, the Global Biodiversity Assessment,
International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the Global Environment Outlook (GEO) process
and the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). These assessments demonstrated that the
IAASTD must:


0   be conducted using an open, transparent, representative and legitimate process, with an
    agreed set o f Principles and Procedures;
0   involve a representative set o f experts from relevant stakeholder groups in the design,
    preparation and preparationo f the Assessment usinglocal and institutional knowledge;
0   incorporate gender issues;
0   be intellectually and scientifically objective (peer and stakeholder reviewed, with
    independentreview editors), but accessible and comprehensibleto non-specialists;
0   incorporate capacity-building activities; and
0   incorporate a continuous and effective outreach and communications strategy.

The proposed intergovernmental governance structure resembles that o f the IPCC, but contains a
multi-stakeholder Bureau similar to the MA Board o f Directors. The geographically based multi-
stakeholder Bureau will be comprised o f 30 governments and 30 representatives from producer
and consumer groups, NGOs, the private sector and international institutions, including     the
CGIAR, to ensure ownership o f the process and findings. The cosponsoring agencies, including
the GEF, and the Multilateral Environmental Agreement secretariats are ex-offico members o f
the Bureau.

The project has already brought together a wide range o f stakeholders (governments, GEF and
their   implementing agencies, the cosponsoring agencies,             Multilateral Environmental
Agreements (e.g. UNCBD, UNCCD, UNFCCC and Ramsar), NGOs, consumers, producers,

                                                 17

private sector, foundations, UN agencies, the CGIAR and others in the scientific community)
involved in the agricultural sector. A wide range o f stakeholders were involved in the regional
consultations, and were represented on the international steering committee which guided the
consultative process. Similarly, a wide range o f stakeholders are represented on the multi-
stakeholder Bureau and will participate inthe plenary meeting, and all stakeholders are involved
inthe design, preparationand peer review ofthe reports. A multi-stakeholder Bureauembedded
withinanintergovernmentalprocess is unique.

Local knowledge (traditional and indigenous) o f producers and NGOs will be incorporated
along with institutional knowledge. A set o f lead authors will be chosen with the primary
responsibility of ensuring that local knowledge i s fully assessed in the global and sub-global
assessments.
Participation of Civil Society. Key stakeholders (governments and a wide range o f civil society
stakeholders) were involved in the discussion and preparation o f the initial project concept,
consultative workshops, and final design, including the management and governance structures.

Social Issues Important in the Project. The key social issues addressedby the project include: (i)
the role o f agriculture in poverty alleviation and sustainable rural livelihoods; (ii)                           hunger
alleviation and improved nutrition and human health; and (iii) dimensions in agriculture
                                                                                 gender
and rural deployment.

5. Environment

Application o f the knowledge generated through the IAASTD should provide significant local,
national, regional and global environmental benefits, including reducing the overall rate o f
natural resource loss and land degradation, enhancing landscape biodiversity both in areas o f
land use and inprotected areas, reducing the rate o f soil, runoff and nutrient losses, diminishing
the contamination and eutrophication of fresh waters and soils, reducing the rate o f greenhouse
gas emissions, and increasing the amount o f carbon fixed in agricultural systems. This will be
achieved if the knowledge generated by the IAASTD i s used to design and implement
appropriate policies, regulations and incentive structures to support integrated natural resource
and agricultural management, and to stimulate investments to address local, national, and global
environmental issues within the context o f sustainable development.                         The IAASTD will also
strengthen the capacity o f institutions to design and implement integrated management
approaches.       Sustainable agricultural practices will directly, and through improved natural
resource management, contribute to improvingpeople's livelihoods, food security and health.

6.       Safeguard policies

   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                          Yes                   N o
   EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               [I                   [XI
   Natural Habitats(OP/BP 4.04)                                                         [I                   [ XI
   Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                            [I
   Cultural Property(OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                [I                    [X 1
                                                                                                              [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                 [I                    [XI
   IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, being revisedas OP 4.10)                                  [I                    [XI
   Forests (OPIBP4.36)                                                                  [I                    [XI
   Safety of Dams(OP/BP 4.37)                                                           [I                    [XI
   Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                            [I                    [XI
   Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                   [I                    [XI


*By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'claims on the
disputed areas

                                                            18

Environmental Rating: C

The Project is designated a Category C project, based on the above assessment ofpotential
impacts (Annex 10).

7. PolicyExceptionsandReadiness

The proposed project does not require any exceptions from Bank policies.




                                               19

                 Annex 1:       Country and Sector or Program Background
      GLOBAL:InternationalAssessmentofAgricultural Science andTechnology for
                                    Development (IAASTD)

Between 2001 and mid-2002, the World Bank held a number o f meetings with the leaders inthe
private sector and incivil society to discuss some o f the prominent issues inagricultural science
and technology. Participants were asked for their views on how to advance the role o f
agricultural science and technology in meeting future challenges to nutritional security and
agricultural productivity inan environmentally and socially sustainable manner. Some suggested
that a comprehensive, multidisciplinary assessment o f issues critical to policy formulation would
have great value for decision makers confronting conflicting views on a number o f issues
concerning agricultural science and technology, practices, policies and institutional
effectiveness.

Recognizing how important such an international assessment could be to achieving the
Millennium Development Goals o f eradicating extreme hunger and poverty and ensuring
environmental sustainability, inAugust 2002, FA0 and the World Bank announced at the World
Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) inJohannesburg a global consultative process on
a proposed international assessment o f the role o f agricultural science and technology in
reducing hunger, improving rural livelihoods and stimulating environmentally sustainable
economic growth over the coming decades.

The goal o f the consultative process was to engage a balanced and representative set o f
stakeholders ineach region (Sub-Saharan Africa; Central and West Asia and NorthAfrica; Latin
America and the Caribbean; East and South Asia and the Pacific; and North America and
Europe) indiscussions o f the questions they deemed critical for meetingthe goals o f nutritional
security and enhanced rural livelihoods in an environmentally and economically sustainable
way. The CGIAR, the Centre for Rural and Technical Cooperation (CTA) and the governments
o f Finland, France and Ireland provided key financial and logistical support for the regional
consultations The conclusions of each regional consultation are summarized on the IAASTD
web site (www:agassessment.org).

Representatives from relevant stakeholder groups, which included representatives o f FAO,
UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, the World Bank, WHO, and three Multilateral Environmental
Agreements (MEAs) as well as representatives from governments, the private sector, producer
and consumer groups, non-governmental organizations, international organizations, foundations,
the CGIAR and other scientific organizations from around the world attended the first meeting
inDublin, Ireland, inNovember 2002. Participants endorsed transparency and inclusiveness as
guiding principles for the regional consultations. They recommended inviting specialists and
generalists, natural and social scientists,      local and institutional experts,        producers,
environmentalists and health professionals, as well as representatives from relevant stakeholder
groups to the consultations.

A 55-member Steering Committee comprised o f representatives from the stakeholder groups,
including the cosponsoring agencies and the UNFCCC, UNCBD and UNCCD, was formed
shortly after the Dublin meeting. Regional consultations involving nearly 900 participants
representing 110 countries were subsequently held in:

    9     Cairo, Egypt (Central and West Asia and NorthAfrica);
    9 Paris, France(Eastern andWesternEurope);
    9 Lima, Peru(SouthAmerica);

                                                20

     9 Washington, DC(North America);
     9 SanJose, CostaRica(Central America);
     9 New Delhi, India(SouthAsia);
     9 Suva, Fiji(Pacific Islands);
     >     Bogor, Indonesia(Southeast Asia); and
     9 AddisAbaba, Ethiopia(Sub-SaharanAfrica)
     9 Beijing, China(China)4

Presentations were also given at the following important stakeholder events:

     9 Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research General Meeting
           (Philippines, September 2002);
     9 Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in East and Central Africa
           (ASARECA) Annual Meeting(Kenya, January 2003);
     9 FoodandAgriculture OrganizationCommitteeonAgriculture (Italy, April2003); and
     9 ForumonAgricultural Researchfor Africaplenary (Senegal, May2003).

After careful consideration of the outcomes from the regionalmeetings and input from the web
site, the Steering Committee met inCork, Ireland (12-13 June 2003) and Budapest, Hungary (31
July - 2 August 2003) to finalize recommendations to the President of the World Bank and the
Heads o f FAO, IFAD, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO and WHO. The recommendations addressed
the rationale, goal, scope, outputs, outcomes, assessment characteristics, management and
governance structure, location o f secretariat, the proposedbudget and funding philosophy.

In December 2003, the Secretary General o f the United Nations, Kofi Annan, wrote the
President o f the World Bank, Jim Wolfensohn, expressing full support and cooperation for the
initiative. ByJanuary 2004, FAO, WHO, UNEP, UNDP, UNESCO had agreed tojoin the World
Bank incosponsoringthe Assessment, and inMay 2004, the GlobalEnvironmentFacility (GEF)
agreed to provide PDF-B funding o f US$350,000 to sponsor the First Intergovernmental
Plenary in Nairobi, Kenya. These funds were primarily used to support developing country
participation.

The Panel o f participating governments, taking into account the recommendations o f the multi-
stakeholder steering committee that oversaw the consultative process, and the views o f other
stakeholders at the IAASTD Intergovernmental Plenary held in Nairobi from 30 August to 3
September 2004, agreed on the objectives, goals, scope, key questions, design, preparation and
peer review processes, outputs, timetable, budget and governance structure (Annex 13). The
Bureau to the Panel includes 30 representatives from governments, 22 representatives from civil
society (six NGOs, six producer groups, four consumer groups, six private sector entities) and
eight fkom international organizations.




 This meeting was delayedbecauseo f SARS so was not held until after the Steering Committee report was finalized.


                                                         21

           Annex 2:        Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
             Global- InternationalAssessment of Agricultural Science and Technology for
                                            Development(IAASTD)

                                                                                     Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                              Project                           (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-financed projects only)
                                                                                 lmplementati   Development
   Bank-financed                                                                 on Progress Objective (DO)
                                                                                     (IP)

   Other Agencies
   UN                                 MDG Task Forceon Hunger
   Inter-AcademyCouncil               Study on Science and Technology Strategies
                                      for ImprovedAgricultural Productivityand
                                      FoodSecurityinAfrica
   UNEP                               Millennium EcosystemAssessment*
   UNEP                               GlobalEnvironmental Outlook
~~~
   UNEPIWMO                           IntergovernmentalPanel on ClimateChange
   UNEP                               GlobalBiodiversityAssessment
   FA0                                The State of FoodInsecurity
      *       The World Bank contributed DGF resources to the MA

      RELATED    ACTIVITIES

      This section summarizes the major related projects listed in the table above as well as a few
      additional projects which are relevant to the IAASTD.

       1. The IAASTD will complement recently completed and/or ongoing activities. The two most
           relevant activities are the Inter-Academy Council Study on Science and Technology
           Strategies for Improved Agricultural Productivity and Food Security in Africa, and the
           MillenniumDevelopment Goal Task Force on Hunger. A memorandum of understanding
           (MOU) from the co-chairs o fthe IAC, MDGand IAASTD was forwarded to KofiAnnan on
           November 4, 2002. This MOU, which has since been updated, outlined the scope o f the
           three activities and demonstratingthe complementarities among them.

      2.   The Inter-Academy Council Study on Science and Technology Strategies for Improved
           Agricultural Productivity and Food Security in Africa: In March 2002, UN Secretary
           General Kofi Annan asked the InterAcademy Council (IAC) to develop a strategic plan on
           how best to harness technology and science to improve food security in Africa. The Final
           report was published in June 2004, and recommended specific actions broadly categorized
           as:

           B    Science and technology options that can make a difference (e.g., promoting the
                conservation, sustainable and equitable use o f biodiversity);
           B    Building impact-oriented research, knowledge and development institutions (e.g.,
                designingand investing innational agricultural science systems that involve farmers in
                education, research and extension);
           B    Creating and retaining a new generation o f agricultural scientists (e.g., reforming
                university curricula);


                                                         22

    9 Markets and policies to make the poor income and food secure (e.g., increase
         investments inrural infrastructure); and
    9 Engaging science and technology for the benefit of African agriculture in the near
         term.

3. Millennium Development Goal Task Force on Hunger: The UN General Assembly agreed
    to the MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs) in September 2000. In2002, UN Secretary
    General Kofi Annan asked Jeffery Sachs to direct the UN MDG Program, a program
    designed to develop action plans to meet targets such as halving extreme poverty, achieving
    universal primary education, halting the spread o f HIV/AIDS and other diseases and
    reversing the loss o f environmental resources. The Hunger Task Force addressed the MDG
    target o f reducing by half the proportion o f people who suffer from hunger between 1990
     and 2015. About 20 leaders from science, policy, the civil society, the private sector, UN
    agencies and developing country governments produced recommendations aimed at
    achieving this goal. These recommendations, released inDecember 2004, included:
4.
    9 Movefrompolitical commitment to action;
    9 Reformpoliciesandcreate andenablingenvironment;
    9 Increasetheagriculturalproductivity offood-insecure farmers;
    9 Improvenutritionfor the chronicallyhungryandvulnerable;
    9 Reducevulnerability ofthe acutelyhungrythroughproductive safety nets;
    9 Increase incomes andmakemarketswork for thepoor; and
    9 Restoreandconservethe naturalresources essentialfor food security.

Examples o f other international reporting, coordinating, research and assessment activities that
the IAASTD will build upon include the following (others are listed in the economic and
financial analysis -Annex 9):

Reporting activity: The State o f Food Insecurity (FAOEOFI) reports, which are produced
annually on global and national efforts to reach the goal set bythe 1996 World Food Summit: to
reduce by halfthe number o fundernourishedpeople inthe world by the year 2015;

Reporting activity:    The Global Forum on Agricultural Research (GFAR), which is a
multistakeholder initiative that contributes to eradicating poverty, achieving food security, and
conserving and managing natural resources by enhancing national capacities to generate, adapt
and transfer knowledge;

Research/coordinating activity: The Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
(CGIAR), which i s the largest publicly funded international research program focused on the
needs o f developing countries, i s in the midst o f a reform and a research priority-setting
exercise. The IAASTD will involve a large number o f CGIAR experts inthe design, preparation
and peer review process;

Research activity: The Global Plan o f Action for the Conservation and Sustainable Use o f Plant
Genetic Resources for Foodand Agriculture (FAO);

Research activity:    The International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), which has
launched an initiative to develop scenarios o f plausible futures for use in upcoming studies,
F P R Iwill play a major role onthe IAASTD plausible futures work;




                                                23

Assessment activity:     The work o f the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC),
which includes plausible climate scenarios and an assessment o f the implications of global
climate change on agriculture, and how agricultural practices effect the earth's climate system
through emissions o f greenhouse gases from agricultural systems;

Assessment activity: The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA), which includes an analysis
o f historical and plausible future changes in agriculture on ecosystem services and changes in
ecosystem services on agriculture;

Assessment activity: Agriculture Towards 2015/2030 (FA0 2002);

Assessment activity: The State of the World's Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture
(FA0 1998) andthe associatedregionalandnational reports, and

Assessment activity: The CGIAR IWMI"Comprehensive Assessment o f Water Management in
Agriculture: GuidingPolicy Investments inWater, Food, Livelihoods and Environment";

Assessment activity: The 2007 Global Environment Outlook (GEO), which will contain a major
discussionon plausible futures.

While the IAASTD will acknowledge, buildupon, and insome instances closely coordinate with
(e.g., the CGIAR IWMI, and GEO assessments) the activities mentioned in the preceding
paragraphs, the IAASTDhas a number o f unique attributes:

        Intergovernmental process         with multi-stakeholder    Bureau    comprised  o f 30
        representatives from government and 30 from civil society;
        Multiple international agency cosponsorship (FAO, GEF, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO,
        World Bank, and WHO);
        Well-defined user needs grounded inan internationalconsultative process;
        Inclusion o f hundreds of experts from all relevant stakeholder groups;
        Multi-thematic focus embracing nutritional security, livelihoods, human health and
        environmental and social sustainability;
        Multi-spatial: global and sub-global assessments with an intellectually consistent
        conceptual framework)
        Multi-temporal: historical-to-long term (till 2050) perspectives employing use of
        plausible scenarios;
        Integration o f local and institutional knowledge;
        Assessment of policies and institutional arrangements, as well as KST.




                                                  24

-
3
a .  e  e .  e

         m




[ & I


                     50
                     4-
                     0




             wh *


       35
         (d




E
-0 5n
0
.3

e            e    e




e    e  e




  E
e  '$
  Y

v)    0
0     m
.3
a
8
a
-c
2
.9
a8
n

                       Monitoring and EvaluationAspects of the Project
INTRODUCTION
The objective of monitoring and evaluation i s to assist all project participants in assessing
project performance and impact, in order to improve performance and increase impact.
Monitoring is the continuous or periodic review and surveillance by management o f the
implementation o f an activity to ensure that all required actions are proceeding according to
plan. Evaluation i s a process for determining systematically and objectively the relevance,
efficiency, effectiveness and impact o f the activities in light o f their objectives. Ongoing
evaluation is the analysis, during the implementation phase, o f continuing relevance, efficiency
and effectiveness o f outputs, effects and impact.

The general and specific objectives o f the project, and the list o f its planned outputs, have
provided the basis for this M&E plan. The specific objectives are to: (a) assess, quantify and
analyze how agricultural knowledge, science and technology (KST) can improve livelihoods,
improve nutritional security and assist poverty reduction; (b) build global and sub-global
assessment capacity to undertake integrated scientific assessments o f agricultural KST and to
buildownership to implement actionbaseduponthe evidence inthe assessments.

The project will be evaluated on the basis o f

1. Executionperformance. Monitoring will concentrate on the management and supervision
    of project activities to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness o f project implementation.
    Information will be collected on programmed activities and compared to assess status o f
    accomplished with programmed tasks. This activity will be the direct responsibility o f the
    Director o f the IAASTD Secretariat who i s responsible for the quality o f the substantive
    work and will provide intellectual leadership, in collaboration with the IAASTD co-chairs,
    of the project. See Table D.1for the execution performance indicators.

2. Deliveredoutputs. Ongoing monitoring o f the project's success in producing each o f the
    programmed outputs, both in quantity and quality will be the responsibility o f the Project
    Secretariat. Indicators o f performance at Objective level and Output levelwill be the primary
    means o f monitoring delivery o f outputs. Internal project monitoring will be supervised by
    the Director of the IAASTD Secretariat. Mid-term and final outputs will be evaluated by
    external consultants contracted by the World Bank. For a summary o f expected outputs by
    project objectives, see the Project Logframe (Annex 3) for a list o f project activities and
    corresponding outputs.

3. Projectperformance.Performancemonitoring o f the project's success in achieving the two
    objectives (above) will be completed internally through reports and meetings o f the
    Secretariat at the World Bank, and by the multi-stakeholder IAASTD Advisory Bureau.
    Project performance success will be evaluated at mid-term (after two years o f project
    execution) and final (at the end o f project execution) by external consultants. See the Project
    Logframe for a summary o f the project performance indicators.

4. Project impact. Three major areas have been identified for impact evaluation, namely: (i)
    development o f detailed framework; (ii) global assessment focusing on policy and
                                                   the
    institutional issues inthe context o f historical perspectives and plausible futures; and (iii)
                                                                                                 the
    five  sub-global assessments. Impact evaluation in these three areas will depend upon the
    phases and milestones o f the project.



                                                  31

The rest o f the M&E Plan i s intabular form, as set out below:
Table 1: lists the indicators o fproject executionperformance.
Table 2:      describes inputsand expected outputs and their timings.
Table 3: summarizes indicators ofproject performance.
Table 4:      distinguishes the monitoringand evaluation responsibilities.
Table 5:       sets out the monitoring and evaluation reports, their content, timing and
              responsibility.
Table 6:       sets out the principal reportsby area o f activity, expected date, and drafting
              responsibility

                      Table 1:        Indicators of project execution performance




        Table 2          (See Annex 17:IAASTDPROJECTWORK PLAN2006 - 2008)
                           Description and timing of expected outputs by project objectives



Objectivesand inputs              outputs             Start   Finish   Outcomes
1. Development of Conceptual      Conceptual          Jan 05  May05    Conceptualframework, approved
Framework(already                 Framework                            bythe Bureau,to guide the
completed)                                                             preparationofthe globalandsub-
                                                                       global assessments
2. Developmentof annotated        Annotatedoutlines   Jan 05  May 05   Annotatedchapter outlines,
outlines for the global andsub-                                        approvedbythe Bureau, for the
globalassessments(already                                              Globalandsub-globalcomponents
completed)                                                             consistent with the Conceptual
                                                                       Framework
3. GlobalAssessment               Draftglobalreports  June 05 June-    GlobalAssessment reportapproved
                                  for expert andpeer          Oct 07   by the Plenary andusedby all
                                  reviewandfinal                       relevantstakeholders
                                  approval by Plenary

4. SubglobalAssessments (5)       Draftsub-global
                                            -         June 05 June-    Fivesub-globalassessment rewrts
                                  reports for expert          Oct 07   approvedbythe Plenaryand;sed
                                  andpeerreviewand                     by all stakeholders
                                  final approvalby
                                  Plenary
                                  Continuousupdates   Jan 05  April 08 Printedglobaland sub-global
5. Outreachand                    ofrelevantmaterial                   assessmentreports, each with a
communication                     to ensure an open,                   Summary for DecisionMakers
                                  transparentprocess                   (SDM); SDMs publishedinsix
                                                                       official UNlanaguages) and a
                                  Globalandsub                         SynthesisReportandmadewidely
                                  globalassessment                     availableinprint andon the web
                                  reportsprintedand                    anddiscussedanddebatedin
                                  on the web                           workshops, conferences andused
                                                                       by all relevantstakeholders in
                                  SDMstranslated.                      decisionmaking.
                                  printedandonweb                                     I




                                                      32

                        Table 3:        Indicators of project performance
                          Monitoring and Evaluation for the IAASTD

A: Project monitoring

For practicality, indicators o fperformancehave been chosen from the lists provided at Annex 3
to focus on the key processeso f each Component. These indicators will provide the basis for
project monitoring.
a   Indicators o f an improved conceptual framework for the global and sub-global assessments
a   A conceptual framework that provides guidance for chapter contents for the global and sub-
    global assessments.
a   A conceptual framework that provides coherence amongthe global and sub-global
    assessments.

Indicators of a global assessmentusingIAASTDconceptualframework

a   Informationcritically assessedwithin the conceptual framework
a   A historical assessmento fthe efficacy ofthe generation, access, disseminationand use of
    AKST inmeeting the development goals;
a   A set o f scenarios that will assessplausible future demands for agriculturalproducts,
    approaches to meet demand, the roles o f AKST inmeetingthe demand, and the implications
    for the development goals;
a   A set o foptions for action that arepolicy relevant butnotpolicyprescriptive; and
a   The global assessmentreport i s approved at a Plenary meeting o f governments and other
    stakeholders.

Indicators of five sub-global assessments usingIAASTD framework

a   Information critically assessedwithin the conceptual framework.
a   A historical assessmento fthe efficacy ofthe generation, access, dissemination anduse of
    AKST inmeetingthe development goals ineach ofthe five regions;
a   A set o fregional scenarios that will assessplausible future demands for agricultural
    products, approaches to meet demand, the roles o f AKST inmeeting the demand, and the
    implications for the development goals;
a   A set of regional options for action that arepolicy relevant butnot policy prescriptive;
a   The sub-global assessmentreports are approved at a plenarymeeting o f governments and
    other stakeholders.


Indicators of outreach and communicationof IAASTD findings invarious media and to all
stakeholders at various levels

a   An accessible up-to-date web site with evidence o fuse by all stakeholders
a   Presentations at conferences, workshops, meetings o f Parties to environmetal conventions
    (e.g., CBD, CCD, Ramsar) during and after preparation o f the global and sub-global
    assessment reports
a   The global and sub-global assessmentreports, including the summaries for decision-makers,
    are rated well by the relevant stakeholders
a   IAASTDscientific outputs usedby Cosponsoringagencies, MEAs, Partiesto the
    Conventions, and other stakeholder groups


                                                  33

B: Elementsfor the TORfor the Independent mid-termevaluation
The mid-term independent evaluationshould: (i)     evaluate the current status o f the IAASTD in
relation to the objectives set out inthe project document and the log-frame; and (ii) the
                                                                                        appraise
following aspects o f the IAASTD:

a      Appropriatenessof theproject approaches:
    o Is the conceptual framework providingcoherence betweenandamongthe global and
       sub-global assessments?
    o Is the conceptual framework being utilizedbythe global and sub-global assessments?
    o Were detailed chapter outlines developed for the global and sub-global assessmentsthat
       appropriately addressedthe environmental and development objectives set out inthe
       project proposal and log-frame?


a      Effectiveness and efficiency:
    o Was the framework development on schedule?
    o Are the global and sub-global assessments on schedule-has a first order draft been
       completed and sent for peer review?
    o Didthe first-order drafts ofthe global and sub-global assessments contain appropriate
       information on:
       0        historical lessons;
       o        plausible scenarios for agricultural consumption and production and implications
                for environmental conditions;
        o       agricultural KSTpolicy and institutional arrangements inrelationship to
                environmentally sustainable agriculture;
    o Isthe web system providingauser-fiiendly platform for the authors and for the outside
        community
    o Has an effective outreach and communication strategy beendeveloped and is itbeing
       implemented?
    o Is the project within the approved budget?

a      Project institutional capacity:
    0  I s the distributed secretariat appropriately staffed?
    0  I s the multi-agency secretariat functioning efficiently?
    0 I s the  multi-stakeholder Bureau functioning effectively?
    0 Is   there sound financial management?
    0  Didthe relevant experts participate inthe global and sub-global design team meetings?
    0  Are the relevant experts participating inthe preparation o f the global and sub-global
        assessments?
    0 Are    the sub-global institutions effectively managing the sub-global assessments?
    0  I s there an effective outreach and communications strategy?

a       Financial sustainability:
    o I s the IAASTDfinancially sound, Le., ithas the budgetrequired to complete the
        approvedwork program?
    o Are the OECDgovernments, organizations and institutions fbndingthe travel ofOECD
        experts?

a      Enabling environment:
    o Has the IAASTDretainedmulti-stakeholder ownership?
    o Is there ownership ofthe sub-global assessments?



                                                  34

C: Elements for the TORfor the Independent final evaluation

The final independent evaluation should evaluate: (i) IAASTD inrelation to the objectives
                                                        the
set out inthe project document and the logframe; and (ii)   appraise the following aspects o f the
IAASTD:

        Appropriatenessof theproject approaches:
    0   Didthe framework provide coherence betweenand amongthe global and sub-global
        assessments?
    0   Didthe frameworkprove to be appropriate andutilizedbythe global and sub-global
        assessments?
    0   Didthe chaptersappropriately address the environmental anddevelopment objectives set
        out inthe project proposal and logframe?


0       Effectiveness and efficiency:
    0   Were the global and sub-global assessments completed on schedule?
    0   Was the project completed within the approved budget?
    0   Didthe globaland sub-global assessmentscontain appropriate information on:
        o historical lessons;
        o plausible scenarios for agricultural consumption andproduction andimplications for
             environmental conditions;
        o agricultural KSTpolicy and institutional arrangements inrelationship to
             environmentally sustainable agriculture;
    0   Didthe web system provide auser-friendly platformfor the authors andpeer reviewers;
    0   I s the web site user-friendly for the outside community and does it contain the
        appropriate material?
    0   I s the outreach and communication strategy beingeffectively implemented to ensure
        ownership o f the findings?
        o Are the Summaries for Decision Makers effective documents for disseminatingthe
             key findingsto the full range o f decisionmakers;
        o Doesthe outreach and communications strategy ensure disseminationthe findingsto
             key stakeholders, including the cosponsoring agencies, the GEF and its implementing
             agencies and the MEAs and the Parties to the Conventions?
        Project institutionalcapacity:
    0   Didthe multi-agency secretariat function efficiently?
    0   Didthe sub-global institutions effectively manage the sub-global assessments?
    0   Didthe multi-stakeholder Bureau function effectively?
    0   Was there sound financial management?
    0   Didthe relevant experts participate inthe design, preparation andpeer review ofthe
        global and sub-global assessments?
    0   Was there an effective outreach and communications strategy?
        Financial sustainability:
    0   Didthe IAASTD obtain the required funding?
    0   Didthe OECDgovernments and other institutions fundthe travel o fOECDexperts?




                                                  35

                                    Table 4:      MonitoringandEvaluationResponsibilities

The World FishCenter,ACTS,                                  Panelof                     Multi-                     Sub-globa1
ICARDA andIICA (asMIS),                    in               Participating                stakeholder               [nstitutes(The
conjunctionwith theWorldBank                                Governments                  Bureau                    florld Fish
IAASTD Secretariat                                                                                                 :enter, ACTS,
                                                                                                                   [CARDAand
                                                                                                                   [ICA)
Monitorthe agreedM&E Establishreporting                     Receivehalf-yearly           Receivehalf-yearly        nconjunctionwith
planinaccordancewith         guidelinesforparticipating     activity andprogress         activity and annual       igencycosponsors
the t e r n of agreement     groups, andensurethat they     reports                      progressreports,andall    wersightof sub-
with GEFSECM&E Unit          meetreportingdates and                                      substantive reports       ;lobal assessments
                             providereports ofsuitable      Evaluate,acceptand
Developconsolidated          quality                        approvefinalreports          Advise IAASTD             SupplycontinuingM
half-yearlyandannual                                                                     Secretariat on            9z Edata as requested
activity, progressand        Reviewandcommenton                                          implementation            ~yIAASTD
financialreports and         half-yearly and annual                                      problems that emerge,     secretariat
copiesofall substantive      activityandprogressreports,                                 andon desirable
reports fromIAASTD           sub-globalcoordinators'                                     modifications to the
Secretariat                  reports                                                     workplanfor the
                                                                                         succeedingyear
Projectmanager or            Prepareconsolidatedhalf-
deputyto attendand           yearlyprogressreportsand
participatefully in          annualsummariesand                                          Provideoverall            Submitagreed
generalprojectmeetings,      substantiveandfinancial                                     guidance for the project  [ndicatorsto
andmeetingsof the Panel reports                                                          implementation            [AASTDSecretariat
andBureau
                             Canyout a programmeof                                       Approveproject
Engageandprepare             regularvisits, inconjunction                                financingplan
terms of reference for       with the relemntco-
independentM&E               sponsoringagency, to sub-                                   Design, inconjunction
consultantsto conduct        globalinstitutionsto                                        with the IAASTD
the mid-termreviewsand       superviseactivities                                         Secretariat, approve and
final evaluation                                                                         provideoversightfor
                                                                                         theoutreachand
Facilitatethe selective                                                                  communications
reviewofthe projectby                                                                    strategy.
STAPand/or GEFSEC

Carryout suchother
monitoringas is
determinedin
collaborationwith
IAASTDSecretariat



                                    Table 5:           MonitoringandEvaluationReports

        This refers to the 6-monthly administrative and financial reporting, with a fixed format to be
        respected by coordinators at the sub-global and global levels, i.e. from participating groups to
        the World Bank and IAASTD Secretariat. World Bank financing rules will be applied to all
        reports.

        Report                       I Formatand        Content            1 Timing:               1  Resr>onsibilitv
        Activity andProgress           (Reportswill use a standardformat
        Reports                        to be developedfollowing the World
                                       BankProgressReportmodel)
        Documentthe completionof       PersonreportingandDate                Half- yearly
                                                                                   . -                The WorldFishCenter,
        plannedactivities, and                                                                        ACTS, ICARDA andIICA,
        describeprogressinrelation     Activity nameandaccomplishments                                inconjunctionwith, the
        to the annualoperatingplan     withineach activitythis half-year                              IAASTD Secretariat(Project


                                                                     36

                                                                                    Manager)for use as
Reviewany problemsor        Targets for the nexthalf-year                           describedin Table D.4
decisionswith animpact on                                                           (above)
performance                 Commentonperformanceon
                            progress towardproject goals, and
Provideadequate             problems/constraints
substantivedata on methods
andoutcomesfor inclusion    Reporton any unanticipatedresults
inconsolidatedproject half- andopportunities,andon anychecks
yearly and annual progress  to projectprogress
reports                                                                              The World FishCenter,
                                                                                     CTS, ICARDA and IICA
Annual Project
ImplementationReview        Any highlights                                           rask Managers / DGEF to
                                                                 Yearly              3EF Secretariat

                            (Reports will use astandardformat
ProgressReports             to be developedfollowing the World
                            BankProgressReportmodel)
                            Summary of Sub-global                Half-yearly,within  The World FishCenter,
yearly reportsofprogress    Coordinators' reports and            30 days of endof    4CTS, ICARDA and IICA,
                            regionalinstitutions                 eachreporting       nconjunctionwiththe
                                                                 period, but not     AASTD Secretariat(Project
                            Reportonprogress ineach sub-         requiredwhere a     Manager) forwardingto
                            globalassessment activity            Consolidated        Multi-stakeholderBureau
                                                                 Annual Summary
                             Summaryofproblems andproposed       Reportis due
                             action

                            Highlights

                             (Reports will use a standard format
Summary Progress reports    to bedevelopedfollowing the World
                             BankProgress Reportmodel)
                             A consolidatedsummary of the half-  Yearly, within 45   The World FishCenter,
summary review ofprogress    yearlyreports                       days of endof the   ACTS, ICARDA and IICA,
intheprojectas awhole, in                                        reportingperiod     inconjunctionwith the
eachofits activities andin   Summaryofprogress andof all                             IAASTDSecretariat(Project
each output                  projectactivities                                       Manager) for forwarding to
                                                                                     Multi-stakeholderBureau
Providessummary review       Descriptionofprogress under each
and assessment of progress   activity andineach output
under eachactivity set outin
the annual workplan,         Review of delays andproblems, and
highlighting significant     of actionproposedto deal with these
resultsandprogresstoward
 achievementof the overall   Reviewofplans for the following
work programme               period, withreportonprogress under
                             eachheading
Provides ageneral sourceof
information, used inall
 generalprojectreporting

 Annual and interim          The standardizedformat of the       Periodicity:        Eachcontractedinstiutions
FinancialReports             reportswill beagreed-uponduring     annually and
                             the negotiations andwill beattached quarterly
                             to the MinutesofNegotiations.


                             Financialaudit ofprojectaccounts     Annual             Eachcontractedinsitution
 Auditors




                                                             37

         Table 6:         PrincipalReportsbytitle, number,timingand responsibility.

The Director of the IAASTD Secretariat will provide a standardized format for the global and
sub-global assessments once a publishinghouse has been identified and a contract negotiated.
There will be a global assessment report, five sub-global assessment reports, and a set of
Summaries for Decision Makers and a Synthesis Report, which may be published separately.
The IAASTD Secretariat, along with the global co-chairs and the chapter coordinating lead
authors, are responsible for ensuring the reports are published and disseminated in a timely
manner. Any additional scientific publications or related disseminated material would be the
responsibility ofthe authors, subject to an agreement with the Secretariat.

Report, number, title      Format and Content                Expected date        1Responsibility


Global Assessment          Contentwill be basedon theBureau  Draftreportswill be   The IAASTD Secretariat in
                           approvedannotatedoutlines for the available for the     conjunctionwiththe
Sub-global assessment for  globalandfive sub-global          first roundof expert  assessment co-chairsand
the CWANA, ESAF', LAC,     assessments, andsuggestions made  and government        chaptercoordinatinglead
NAE and SSA regions.       during the expert andgovernment   peerreview in the     authors.
                           peer review.                      middle of 2006, and
                                                             for asecondround
                                                             by early 2007, with
                                                             final approvalin
                                                             late 2007 for
                                                             publicationin early
                                                             2008




                                                       38

                          Annex 4:        Detailed Description of Project
      GLOBAL: International Assessment ofAgricultural Science andTechnology for
                                      Development (IAASTD)

At the First Plenary o f the IAASTD (AugusVSeptember 2004), the meeting agreed that the
IAASTD would be comprised of a global assessment and five sub-global assessments
addressing the role o f agricultural KST indevelopment, usinga common conceptual framework,
with a strong outreach and communications strategy. Stakeholders from all relevant groups
agreed on the broad scope o f the IAASTD, and a set o f indicative questions to ensure that the
global and sub-global assessments would provide the information needed for sound decisions by
a wide range of stakeholders on issues relatedto agriculture (see Annex 13).

The IAASTD will seek to bring the best available information on agricultural KST to bear on
policy and management decisions, and to build and enhance local and regional capacity to
design, implement and utilize scientific assessments, The IAASTD will provide informationon
contentious, complex topics such as biosciences, but it will not set goals or advocate specific
policies or practices. It will be policy relevant, but not policy prescriptive, presenting a range o f
options for actions and their likely consequences. The IAASTD will integrate scientific
information on a range o f topics that are critically interlinked, but are often addressed
independently. Highlighting linkages among questions concerning agriculture, poverty,
livelihoods, economic growth, hunger, nutrition, human health, natural resources (especially
water), and environmental and social sustainability, and development will enable decision
makers to bring richer knowledge to bear on what they may have previously seen as isolated
issues.

The overarching question, which provides the framework for the global and sub-global
assessments, is:   "How can we reduce hunger and poverty, improve rural livelihoods, and
facilitate equitable, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development
through the generation, access to, and use o f agricultural knowledge, science and technology?"

This suggests four broad questions regarding agricultural KST:

     k What arethe challenges that canbe addressedthrough agricultural KST?
     9 What arethe likelypositive andnegativeconsequencesofagricultural KST?
     k What are the enabling conditions required to optimize the uptake and diffusion of
          agricultural KST?and
     9 Whatinvestmentsareneededto realizethepotentialofagricultural KST?

Insummary, the five components are:

Component 1- The development o f a conceptual framework and annotatedoutlines for the
global and sub-global assessmentsfor conducting assessments at local, national, regional and
global scales developed, tested and disseminated. This i s already completed using US $0.600
million co-financing sources

Component 2 An expert and government peer reviewedglobal assessmentusingthe IAASTD
               -
conceptual framework. Cost U S $1.430 million (US $0.690 million from the GEF grant).

Component 3 Five expert and government peer reviewedsub-global assessmentsusingthe
               -
IAASTDconceptual framework. Cost U S $3.140 million(US $1.961 millionfrom the GEF
grant).

                                                  39

Component 4 -Outreachand communication ofIAASTD activities, meetings, and findings in
various media, includinga web site, and to all stakeholders. Cost US $1.480 million, o f which
U S $0.349 millionwill be from the GEF grant.

Component 5 Coordinationand oversight (project management and administration). Cost US
               -
$3.860 million, o fwhich none will be from the GEF grant.


Component 1:Development of a conceptualframeworkand annotated outlinesfor the
globalandsub-global assessments(already completed)

The project will develop a conceptual framework and a set o f annotated outlines for conducting
integrated agricultural assessments at local, national, regional and global scales that builds upon
frameworks from previous assessments.

Component2: GlobalAssessment

The global assessment will have four sections.          Each section will utilize the conceptual
framework, and will incorporate gender issues: (i)      Context, Concepts, Historical and Current
Perspectives; (ii) Plausible Futures; (iii)
                                          Options for MakingAKST Work Better to Achieve the
Development and Sustainability Goals: Technology and Capacity; and (iv) Options for Making
AKST Work Better to Achieve the Development and Sustainability Goa1s:linvestrnent and
Policy.

Section I: Context, Concepts, Historical and Current Perspectives. This section will set the
scene for the Assessment by discussing the key issues to be addressed, the context, the
conceptual framework that will be used for both the global and five sub-global assessments, and
will assess the current status o f development and sustainability conditions today. It will then
present an historical analysis o f AKST and AKST systems including that o f the different
actors/organizations (with different sources o f knowledge) who participated, the institutions that
mediated the interactions among these actors, and the innovation processes that resulted.
Furthermore, it will assess the contribution o f AKST and AKST systems in achieving the
development and sustainability goals o f improved nutrition, human health, and livelihoods;
reduced hunger and poverty; and environmental and social sustainability. It will critically assess
factors that facilitated or constrained the role and contribution of AKST research agendas,
capacities and capabilities inmeeting development goals.

Section 11: Plausible Futures: This section will describe the design, construction, application,
and outputs o f a range o fplausible futures o f relevance to IAASTD. This involves an analysis o f
the past and projected trends in the indirect and direct drivers o f change identified in the
IAASTD conceptual framework. Each o f the future world view views, or scenarios, is
operationalized by a comprehensive storyline that describes the assumed evolution o f and
linkages among drivers, as well as the evolution o f and impact on other factors o f interest in
interpreting the future o f agriculture and, within than, AKST. Application o f the storyline o f
each scenario over time involves a good deal o f analysis and interpretation that relies on both
quantitative and qualitative methods. This section also includes a review o f the utility existing
scenarios and storylines from other assessments and development exercises, and adapt past
efforts to IAASTD's purpose and needs. Existing storylines will be enriched through a more
comprehensive representation and analysis o f the development o f AKST, and then brought to
life through the scripted storylines that weave together the global development goals, the key
challenges and issues, AKST and enabling policy and institutional contexts.


                                                  40

Section 111: Options for Making AKST Work Better to Achieve the Development and
Sustainability Goals: Technology and Capacity. This section will buildupon the findings from
sections Iand I1and hence will be informed by historical lessons and plausible futures. The
section will assess options to enhance the role of the generation, access, dissemination, and use
o f AKST in achieving the development and sustainability goals (see Section I)in a more
effective, efficient, equitable, sustainable and transparent way. This section will not be
normative or policy prescriptive, but rather present options. Authors will consider addressing
the implications o f emerging paradigms for improvingthe impact o f AKST on the development
and sustainability goals; and the options for capacity strengthening, needed to ensure the
capacity needed to address different the goals. The chapters will assess options with respect to
the outputs o f the five plausible future scenarios:


0   Options to enhance the impact o f AKST. How can conventional technologies and knowledge,
    new agricultural technologies and knowledge, non-agricultural technologies and knowledge,
    and locally generated technologies and knowledge contribute to addressing the development
    and sustainability goals? What are the relevant contributions to achieving these goals o f
    individual, professional, institutional and social learning, change and commitment?
0   Options for Strengtheninp Capacitv. What are the ranges o f skills, institutions, organizations,
    modes o f behavior, and policies that are needed to strengthen AKST capacity? To what
    extent i s this capacity determined by different goals and contexts (including investments and
    optimal institutional arrangements) and what are the implications o f this for enhancing the
    role o f AKST inachieving the development and sustainability goals?

Section IV:       Options for Making AKST Work Better to Achieve the Development and
Sustainability Goals:Investmentand Policy

This section, like section 111, will build upon the findings from sections Iand I1and will be
informed by historical lessons and plausible futures. It will not be normative or policy
prescriptive, butrather present options. The sectionwill assess the policy, enabling environment
and investment options to enhance the role o f the generation, access, dissemination, and use of
AKST in achieving the development and sustainability goals in a more effective, efficient,
equitable, sustainable and transparent way. The chapters will assess options with respect to the
outputs o fthe five plausible future scenarios:


0   Options for the policv/enablina environment. How can policies, regulations and institutions
    be modified to create a stronger enabling environment that facilitates the generation,
    dissemination, access and adoption o f AKST and strengthen AKST capacity to address the
    development and sustainability goals and the key challenges and issues in an uncertain
    future?
0   Options for public and private sector investment inAKST, the implications inthe governance
    of the innovation system, and an assessment o f the economic returns and its distribution
    amonP different actors o f past and future investments.

Component3: Sub-global Assessments

Five expert and government peer reviewed sub-global assessments (Central and West Asia and
North Africa; East and South Asia and the Pacific; Latin America and the Caribbean; North
America and Europe; and Sub-Saharan Africa), each focusing on: (i)       Context and Concepts; (ii)
Historical and Current Perspectives; (iii)  Plausible Futures; and (iv) Options for Making AKST
Work Better to Achieve the Development and Sustainability Goals will be undertaken at the


                                                  41

regional, national or local scales, to complement the Global Assessment by examining
regionally-specific aspects o f the Global Assessment. Each bf the sub-global assessments,
except for North America and Europe (which will be coordinated by the main IAASTD,
Secretariat) will be managed by a regional institute (World Fish Center (otherwise known as
ICLARM); ACTS; ICARDA; IICA), and will use the same basic framework as the global
assessment, Le., the impacts o f agricultural KST on rural livelihoods, nutritional security, equity,
the environment and human health will be evaluated in relation to both the past and the future.
The sub-global assessments will vary in scale from continents to communities, will use a
consistent methodology, cover a range of agroecological systems, and employ selection criteria
that take into account socioeconomic and institutional conditions, and poverty mapping. The
assessment should seek to incorporate, and build upon, local and indigenous knowledge related
to agricultural technologies and also assess the impact o fknowledge and technologies emanating
from the informal agricultural research and innovation system driven by farmers and other local
landusers.

Component 4: Outreach and Communications

An outreach and communications strategy will be developed by the Bureau inconjunction with
the Secretariat, the regional institutes and the communications experts from the cosponsoring
agencies for both the global and sub-global assessments. The outreach and communications
strategy will include:


0   Development of a web site, which will include the minutes/decisions o f Bureau and Plenary
    meetings, annotated outlines o f the global and sub-global assessments, the Conceptual
    Framework, power-point presentations, list o f authors and review editors, schedule o f author,
    Bureau and Plenary meetings; draft reports for expert and government peer review;
0   Development o f outreach and communications strategy by Bureau and Secretariat
0   Targeted outreach to key user goups usingmedia, workshops and conferences
0   Publication and distribution o f global and sub-global assessmentreports
0   Availability o f global and sub-global assessmentreports on web site
    (www.agassessment.org)
0   Monitoring o f uptake o f IAASTDproducts

Component5: Coordination and oversight (projectmanagementand administration).

The project management and oversight o f the project i s through a distributed secretariat housed
at the World Bank, FAO, UNEP and UNESCO, the regional institutes, and with a
multistakeholder Bureau.

Capacity Building - Capacity building is an implicit element of the IAASTD (also see
paragraphs on replicability). The goal o f the IAASTD i s to enhance sub-global and global
assessment capabilities to undertake integrated scientific assessments o f agricultural KST, and to
buildownership to implement action based uponthe evidence inthe assessments. The IAASTD
will result in an enhanced ability to conduct multi-scale integrated scientific assessments to
understand the contribution o f agricultural KST inpoverty and hunger alleviation, improvement
o f rural livelihoods and human health, and equitable and environmentally, socially and
economically sustainable development.         It will also improve the capacity to design and
implement sustainable agricultural practices and policies by providing information to decision
makers in relevant stakeholder groups through multistakeholder involvement and participation.
This enhanced capacity will be developed through the involvement o f experts from all
 stakeholder groups in the design, preparation and peer review o f the global and sub-global

                                                 42

assessments. The involvement of the regional institutions (World FishCenter (otherwise known
as ICLARM), ACTS, ICARDA and IICA) to manage the sub-global assessments will also result
incapacity to carry out sub-global assessments inthe ikture.




                                              43

                                                 Annex 5:         ProjectCosts

        GLOBAL: InternationalAssessmentof Agricultural Science and Technology for
                                              Development (IAASTD)




              ProjectComponent                             GEF             Co-financing              Total
                                                         Funding
 Component 1: A conceptual framework                               0             600,000              600,000
 for conducting integratedassessments at
 local, national, regional and global scales
 developed, tested and disseminated.
 Component2: A global assessment using                      690,000              740,000             1,430,000
 the IAASTD framework (Output of
 Outcome 1) completed.*
 Component3: Five sub-global                               1,961,000            1,179,000            3,140,000
 assessments using the IAASTD
 framework are completed**
 Component4: Outreachkommunication                           349,000            1,13 1,000           1,480,000
 of IAASTD findings invarious mediaand

 Component5: Coordination and                                      0 1          3,860,000  1         3,860,000
 oversight (project management and
 administration)*  **                           I                    II                    II                   I
 Total****                                                 3,000,000            7,510,000           10,510,000
 **            travel, iegional institutes, partial Plenary/Burea; and co-chair salarycosts, honoraridstipends
 ****
 ***           includes 60K contingency
               does not include the GEF I A fee or the multi-donortrust fund fee ofthe World Bank




   Name of Co-financier          Classification                  Type                      US$*                 Status
 World Bank                      Multilateral        In-kindand cash                         3,060,000    Confirmed
 UNEP                            Multilateral        In-kind                                   720,000    Confirmed
 UNESCO                          Multilateral        In-kind                                   225,000    Confirmed
 FA0                             Multilateral        In-kind                                   225,000    Confirmed
 UNDP                            Multilateral        In-kind                                    10,000 Confirmed
 Australia                       Bilateral           Cash                                      240.000    Simed Ameement

 EuropeanCommission.       ** I  Bilateral          1Cash                                      300,000  I SignedAgreement

 France                          Bilateral           Cash                                      300,000    SignedAgreement
 Ireland                         Bilateral           Cash                                      300,000    SignedAgreement
 Switzerland                     Bilateral           Cash                                      200,000    SignedAgreement

 USA                          I  Bilateral         I Cash
I                                                                                              250,000 I Inprogress
 Private Sector (Crop Life    I  Multilateral      1 Cash                          I           125,000  I Inprocess       I
 Other donors                 I  MuMBilateral      I Cash                                      295,000   ITo beraised
 Sub-TotalCo-financine***                                                                    7.510.000 I


 **
 *       Amounts may differ due to rate fluctuations betweenthe US$and other currencies (Euro, etc.).
 ***      The EChas indicated a willingness to consider a secondtranche of 250,000 Euros.
          Includesthe 5% World Bank Multi-donor Trust Fundfee


                                                             44

Proiect activities at the Recident ImDlementinn Institutions

                                                 Activities
                                                    ACTS

The Recipient shall contribute to the technical and logistical support o f the global assessment and be
responsible for technical and logistical support o f the respective Sub-global component o f IAASTD
activities, i.e., Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), as per the specific tasks and allocated budget set forthbelow.

921,000 U S dollars will be provided to the Recipient for project personnel, communications,
administrative, travel, meetings (author meetings, also known as workshops, Bureau and Plenary
meetings) and publication costs (see Recipient Budget table below) to undertake the specific tasks listed
below. The travel costs (airline tickets; daily subsistence allowances for authors, Bureau members and
government representatives) provided to the Recipient should, use criteria agreed upon with IAASTD
Secretariat inthe World Bank.

Specific tasks

The Recipient i s responsible for overseeing andcoordinating the following:
1. Maintain databases o f authors and reviewers;
2. Serve as coordinating focal point for authors;
3.  Organize the sub-global author meetings (workshops) for the SSA region;
4. Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible authors from the SSA region:
    a) The Institute will make travel arrangements for eligible authors to attend the global author
         meetings (workshops), the sub-global author meetings (workshops) and the final Plenary;
    b) "Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees o f an international organization) with a
         round trip economy class ticket between point o f origin and the destination city where meetings
         are held;
    c) Providing the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily
         subsistence allowance will be determined by the IAASTD Secretariat in collaboration with
         ACTS prior to each meeting;
    d) Providing visa assistance to all eligible participants;
5.  Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible Bureau members and government representatives from
    the SSA region to attend Bureau and Plenary meetings:
    a) The Institute will make travel arrangements for SSA Bureau members to attend two Bureau
         meetings and SSA government representatives to attend the final Plenary;
    b) "Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees o f an international organization) with a
         roundtrip economy class ticket between their city o f residence and the destination city where the
         meetingsare held;
    c) Provide the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily subsistence
         allowance will be determined by the IAASTD Secretariat in the World Bank in collaboration
         with the respective sub-global instituteprior to each meeting;
    d) Providing assistance to all participants inobtaining visas.
6. Correspond with authors to ensure timely submission o f drafts;
7. Coordinate two rounds of peer review (experts and governments) and editing o f the drafts prepared
    by coordinating authors:
    a) Receive and integrate draft chapters o f the Assessment into a coherent document with a
         consistent structure;
    b) Send documents to experts and governments for peer review;
    c)   Collate and file peer review comments;
    d) Send IAASTD documents to authors and IAASTD Secretariat;
    e)   A copy edit ofthe final SSA sub-global report;
    f) Assist authors inthe preparation o fthe figures into a consistent format;
    g) Ensurereferences are complete; and


                                                     45

     h) Preparethe final draft SSA sub-global assessmentfor acceptanceandapproval bythePlenary;
     i)PrintSSAreport.
8.   Provide honoraria and stipendsper criteria establishedby the Bureau.
9. Translation of the Summary for Decision Makers into the other UN languages (exact number to be
     decidedby Bureau).
10. Support and participate in outreach and communications o f IAASTD activities and findings in
     various media, including the IAASTD web site and the publication and distribution of IAASTD
     publications.
11. Ensure all relevant stakeholders in the SSA region, especially governments, are kept informed of
     IAASTDactivities.
12. Work closely with IAASTDSecretariatto ensure timely completion o fthe work.

Budgetfor ACTS
Activity                                                                                cost (US $)
Institutecosts                                                                               65,000
Technical services: preparation, printingand distribution o f SSA report                     63,000
Travel and workshotx:
Travel expenses for experts for global and sub-global workshops                            423,000
Travel expensesfor Bureaumembers and government representatives                            140,000
Meetingcosts for Closing Plenary meeting                                                   200,000
Outreach and Communications                                                                  30,000
Sub-total travel and workshops                                                             793,000

......................................................................................
                                                                       Total               921,000   --

Cost: (The detailed budgetestimateof the goodslservicesprocuredand a brief descriptionof assumptions
made and data usedto developthe estimate.)

1. Institute costs include mailing o f about 2,000 copies of the final publications ($10,000) and
     honoraridstipends as approved by the Bureau and confirmed by Secretariat ($55,000) = U S $65,000.
2. Technical services includepreparation, printingand distribution o f SSA report = US $63,000.

Travel and workshops include:
3. Travel (economy class tickets plus DSA) for SSA experts to attend global assessment meetings and
     for SSA experts to attend the sub-global authors meetings in the SSA region), including travel
     expenses for one Co-chair ($10,000) = U S $423,000.
4. Travel (economy class tickets plus DSA) for SSA Bureaumembers and government representatives
     to attend the Bureauand Plenary meetings = $140,000.
5.   Meeting costs (e.g., meeting rooms and equipment) for the final Plenary to be organized by UNEP
     (ACTS will provide money to UNEP).
6. Details of the Outreach and communications activities to be coordinated with the Secretariat.



Sub-globalFinalAssessment Report: 300 pages (200 pagesofwords), with 5000 word SDMs

Activity                                                               Estimated Cost
(i) Thorough copy-edit                                                 $ 2,500
(ii) ComplexfiguresandSDMfigures                                       $ 5,000
(iii) TranslationofSDMintoEnglishiFrench                               $ 1,000
          Translation of full report into EnglisWFrench                $27,000
(iv)      Page setting                                                 $ 7,500
(v)       Printing costs (1000 copies ineach language)                 $20,000

                                                   Total:              $63,000



                                                                46

                                                  Activities
                                                  ICARDA


The Recipient shall contribute to the technical and logistical support o f the global assessment and be
responsible for technical and logistical support o f the respective Sub-global component o f IAASTD
activities, i.e., Central and West Asia and NorthAfiica   (CWANA), as per the specific tasks and allocated
budget set forth below.

732,000 U S dollars will beprovidedto the Recipient for project personnel, communications,
administrative, travel, meetings (author meetings otherwise known as workshops, Bureau andPlenary
meetings) and publication costs (see Recipient Budget table below) to undertake the specific tasks listed
below. The travel costs provided to the Recipient to purchase the airline tickets and provide daily
subsistence allowances for eligible authors, Bureau members and government representatives should use
criteria agreed upon with IAASTD Secretariat inthe World Bank.

Specific tasks

The Recipient i s responsible for overseeing and coordinatingthe following:
1. Maintain databases o f authors and reviewers;
2. Serve as coordinating focal point for authors;
3.  Organize the sub-global author meetings (workshops) for the CWANA region;
4. Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible authors from the CWANA region:
    a)   The Institute will make travel arrangements for eligible authors to attend the global author
         meetings (workshops), the sub-global author meetings (workshops) and the final Plenary;
    b) "Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees o f an international organization) with a
         round trip economy class ticket between point o f origin and the destination city where meetings
         are held;
    c) Providing the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily
         subsistence allowance will be determined by the IAASTD Secretariat directed by Robert Watson
         incollaborationwith ICARDApriorto eachmeeting;
    d) Providing visa assistance to all eligible participants;
5. Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible Bureau members and government representatives from
    the C W A N A region to attend Bureau and Plenary meetings:
         The Institute will make travel arrangements for C W A N A Bureau members to attend two Bureau
         meetings and CWANA government representatives to attend the final Plenary;
         "Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees of an international organization) with a
         round trip economy class ticket between their city o f residence and the destination city where the
         meetings are held;
         Provide the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily subsistence
         allowance will be determined by the I A A S T D Secretariat in the World Bank in collaboration
         withthe respective sub-global instituteprior to each meeting;
         Providing assistance to all participants inobtaining visas.
6. Correspond with authors to ensure timely submission o f drafts;
7. Coordinate two rounds of peer review (experts and governments) and editing o f the drafts prepared
    by coordinating authors:
         Receive and integrate draft chapters o f the Assessment into a coherent document with a
         consistent structure;
         Send documents to experts and governments for peer review;
         Collate and file peer review comments;
         Send IAASTD documents to authors and I A A S T D Secretariat;
         A copy edit ofthe final CWANA sub-global report;
         Assist authors in the preparation of the figures into a consistent format;
         Ensurereferences are complete; and


                                                      47

    h) Prepare the final draft CWANA sub-global assessment for acceptance and approval by the
        Plenary;
    i)PrintCWANAreport.
8. Provide honoraridstipends per criteria established by the Bureau
9. Translation o f the Summary for Decision Makers into the other UN languages (exact number to be
    decided by Bureau).
10. Support and participate in outreach and communications o f IAASTD activities and findings in
    various media, including the IAASTD web site and the publication and distribution o f IAASTD
    publications.
11. Ensure all relevant stakeholders inthe CWANA region, especially governments, are kept informedo f
    IAASTD activities.
12. Work closely with IAASTD Secretariat to ensure timely completion o f the work.

Budgetfor ICARDA
Activity                                                                            cost  (us $)
1.      Institute costs for November 1,2006 to December 31,2007                             167,300
2.      Technical services: Preparation, printingand distribution o fthe C W A N A report    37,000
Travel and workshops:
3.      Travel expenses for experts for global and sub-global workshops                     370,000
4.      Travel expenses for Bureau members and government representatives                   140,000
5.      Outreach and Communications                                                           17,700
Sub-total Travel and workshops                                                              527,700
                                                                   Total                    732,000



Cost: (The detailed budget estimate of the goods/servicesprocuredand a brief descriptionof assumptions
made and data usedto develop the estimate.)

7. Institute costs for 14 months (November 1,2006 to December 31,2007), i.e., salaries for two staff members
    ($66,000), staff travel ($7,000), office space and associated costs, e.g., telephone, mail, copying, utilities
    ($21,OOO), fixed overhead ($5,000), mailing cost of about 2,000 copies o f the final publications ($lO,OOO),
    honoraria/stipends as approved by the Bureau and confirmed by Secretariat ($46,000), 2 annual audits o f the
    project accounts ($1,800) and a service charge for maintaining the Special bank account from April 1,2006 -
    Dec 31,2007 at $500 for 21 months ($10,500) for a total o f US $167,300.
8. Technical services includepreparation, printingand distribution o f C W A N A report = $37,000. The mailing
    cost o f 2,000 copies of the publications is included under Institute costs.

Travel and workshops include:
9. Travel (economy class tickets plus DSA) for CWANA experts to attend the global assessment meetings and
    for CWANA experts to attend the sub-global authors meetings inthe C W A N A region) = U S $370,000
10. Travel (economy class tickets plusDSA) for CWANA Bureaumembers and government representatives to
    attend the Bureau and Plenary meetings = $140,000
11. Details o fthe outreach and communications activities to be coordinated with the Secretariat


Sub-globalAssessments: 300 pages (200 pages o fwords), with 5000 word SDMs
Activity                                                   EstimatedCost
(i) Solidcopy-edit                                         $ 2,500
(ii) ComplexfiguresandSDMfigures                           $ 5,000
(iii) TranslationofSDMintoArabicandFrench                  $ 2,000
(iv)    Page setting                                       $ 7,500
(v)     Printing costs (2000 copies)                       $20,000

                                           Total:          $37,000



                                                      48

                                                  Activities
                                                    IICA


The Recipient shall contribute to the technical and logistical support o f the global assessment and be
responsible for technical and logistical support o f the respective Sub-global component o f IAASTD
activities, i.e., Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC), as per the specific tasks and allocated budget set
forth below.

511,000 US dollars will be provided to the Recipient for project personnel, communications,
administrative, travel, meetings (author meetings otherwise known as workshops, Bureau and Plenary
meetings) and publication costs (see Recipient Budget table below) to undertake the specific tasks listed
below. The travel costs (airline tickets; daily subsistence allowances for authors, Bureau members and
government representatives) provided to the Recipient should use criteria agreed upon with IAASTD
Secretariat inthe World Bank.

Specific tasks

The Recipient i s responsible for overseeing andcoordinating the following:
1. Maintain databases o f authors andreviewers;
2. Serve as coordinatingfocal point for authors;
3. Organize the sub-global author workshops (author meetings) for the L A C region;
4. Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible authors from the L A C region:
    a) The Institute will make travel arrangements for eligible authors to attend the global author
         meetings (workshops), the sub-global authors meetings (workshops) and the final Plenary;
    b) "Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees o f an international organization) with a
         round trip economy class ticket between point o f origin and the destination city where meetings
         are held;
    c) Providing the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily
         subsistence allowance will be determined by the IAASTD Secretariat in collaboration with I I C A
         prior to each meeting;
    d) Providingvisa assistance to all eligible participants;
5. Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible Bureau members and government representatives from
    the L A C region to attend Bureau and Plenary meetings:
    a) The Institute will make travel arrangements for L A C Bureau members to attend two Bureau
         meetings and L A C government representatives to attend the final Plenary;
    b) Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees o f an international organization) with a
         round trip economy class ticket between their city o f residence and the destination city where the
         meetings are held;
    c) Provide the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily subsistence
         allowance will be determined by the IAASTD Secretariat in the World Bank in collaboration
         with the respective sub-global institute prior to each meeting;
    d) Providing assistance to all participants inobtaining visas.
6. Correspond with authors to ensure timely submission o f drafts;
7. Coordinate two rounds o f peer review (experts and governments) and editing o f the drafts prepared
    by coordinating authors:
    a) Receive and integrate draft chapters o f the Assessment into a coherent document with a
         consistent structure;
    b) Send documents to experts and governments for peer review;
    c) Collate and file peer review comments;
    d) Send IAASTD documents to authors and IAASTD Secretariat;
    e) A copy edit o fthe final L A C sub-global report;
    f )  Assist authors inthe preparationo fthe figures into a consistent format;

                                                      49

    g) Ensure references are complete; and
    h) Prepare the finaldraft LAC sub-global assessment for acceptance andapprovalbythe Plenary;
    i)PrintLACreport.
8. Provide honoraridstipendsper criteria established by the Bureau
9. Translation o f the Summary for Decision Makers into the other UN languages (exact number to be
    decided by Bureau).
10. Support and participate in outreach and communications o f IAASTD activities and findings in
    various media, including the IAASTD web site and the publication and distribution o f IAASTD
    publications.
11. Ensure all relevant stakeholders in the L A C region, especially governments, are kept informed o f
    IAASTD activities.
12. Work closely with IAASTD Secretariat to ensure timely completion o f the work.

Budget for IICA
Activity                                                                              cost(us  $)
1.      Institute costs for January 1,2007 to December 31,2007                            151,000
2.      Technical services: Preparation, printingand distribution o f the L A C report     63,000
Travel and workshovs:
3.      Travel expenses for experts for global and sub-global workshops                   137,000
4.      Travel expenses for Bureaumembers and government representatives                  140,000
6       Outreach and Communications                                                        20,000
Sub-total Travel and workshops                                                            297,000
                                                           Total                          511,000


Cost: (The detailed budgetestimateof the goodslservicesprocured and a brief descriptionof assumptions
madeand data used to developthe estimate.)

    Institute costs for 12 months (January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2007), i.e., salaries for two staff
    members ($55,000), staff travel ($8,200), office space and associated costs, e.g., telephone, mail,
    copying, utilities ($4,000), overhead ($22,800), mailing about 2,000 copies o f the final publications
    ($1O,OOO), honoraridstipends as approved by the Bureau and confirmed by Secretariat ($46,000) and
    2 annual audits o f the project accounts ($5,000) for total o f US$151,000,
    Technical services include preparation, printing and distribution o f L A C report in two languages
    (English and Spanish) =U S $63,000. The mailing cost o f 2,000 copies o f the publications is included
    underInstitutecosts.

Travel and workshovs include:
3. Travel (economy class tickets plus DSA) for L A C experts to attend the global assessment meetings
    and for L A C experts to attend the sub-global authors meetings inthe L A C region) =U S $137,000.
4. Travel (economy class tickets plus DSA) for L A C Bureau members and government representatives
    to attend the Bureauand Plenary meetings = $140,000.
5. Details o f the outreach and communications activities to be coordinated with the Secretariat.


Sub-global Assessments: 300 pages (200 pages o fwords), with 5000 word SDMs

Activity                                                   EstimatedCost
(i) Solidcopy-edit                                         $ 2,500
(ii) ComplexfiguresandSDMfigures                           $ 5,000
(iii) TranslationofSDMintoEnglish                          $ 1,000
        Translation o f fillreport into English            $27,000
(iv)    Page setting                                       $ 7,500
(v)     Printing costs (1000 copies ineach language)       $20,000

                                          Total:           $63,000


                                                     50

                                                  Activities
                                            World FishCenter


The Recipient shall contribute to the technical and logistical support o f the global assessment and be
responsible for technical and logistical support o f the respective sub-global component o f IAASTD
activities, i.e., East and South Asia and the Pacific (ESAP), as per the specific tasks and allocated budget
set forth below.

836,000 US dollars will be provided to the Recipient for project personnel, communications,
administrative, travel, meetings (author meetings, also known as workshops, Bureau and Plenary
meetings) and publication costs (see Recipient Budget table below) to undertake the specific tasks listed
below. The travel costs (airline tickets; daily subsistence allowances for authors, Bureau members and
government representatives) provided to the Recipient should use criteria agreed upon with IAASTD
Secretariat inthe World Bank.

Specifictasks

The Recipient is responsible for overseeing and coordinating the following:
1. Maintain databases o f authors and reviewers;
2. Serve as coordinatingfocal point for authors;
3.   Organize the sub-global author meetings (workshops) for the ESAP region;
4. Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible authors:
     a) The Institute will make travel arrangements for ESAP authors to attend the global author
         meetings (workshops), the sub-global author meetings (workshops) and the final Plenary;
     b) "Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees o f an international organization) with a
         round trip economy class ticket between point of origin and the destination city where meetings
         are held;
     c) Providing the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily
         subsistence allowance will be determined by the IAASTD Secretariat incollaboration with WFC
         prior to each meeting;
     d) Providing visa assistance to all eligible participants;
5. Coordinate travel arrangements for eligible Bureau members and government representatives from
     the ESAP regionto attend Bureauand Plenary meetings:
     a) The Institute will make travel arrangements for ESAP Bureau members to attend Bureau
         meetings and ESAP government representatives to attend the final Plenary;
     b) "Travel arrangements" shall include providing the participants who qualify for travel support
         (developing country nationals who are NOT employees o f an international organization) with a
         round trip economy class ticket between their city o f residence and the destination city where the
         meetings are held;
     c) Provide the participants with a daily subsistence allowance. The amount o f the daily subsistence
         allowance will be determined by the IAASTD Secretariat in the World Bank in collaboration
         with the respective sub-global institute prior to each meeting;
     d) Providing assistance to allparticipants inobtaining visas.
6. Correspond with authors to ensure timely submission o f drafts;
7. Coordinate two rounds o f peer review (experts and governments) and editing o f the drafts prepared
     by coordinating authors:
     a) Receive and integrate draft chapters o f the Assessment into a coherent document with a
         consistent structure;
     b) Send documents to experts and governments for peer review;
     c) Collate and file peer review comments;
     d) SendIAASTD documents to authors and IAASTD Secretariat;
     e) A copy edit o f the final ESAP sub-global report;


                                                      51

    f ) Assist authors inthe preparation ofthe figures into a consistent format;
    g) Ensure references are complete; and
    h) Prepare the final draft ESAPsub-global assessmentfor acceptanceandapproval by the Plenary;
    i)PrintESAPreport.
8. Provide honoraridstipends per criteria establishedby the Bureau.
9. Translation of the Summary for DecisionMakers into the other UNlanguages (number to be decided
    byBureau).
10. Support and participate in outreach and communications of IAASTD activities and findings in
    various media, including the IAASTD web site and the publication and distribution of IAASTD
    publications.
11. Ensure all relevant stakeholders in the ESAP region, especially governments, are kept informed of
    IAASTD activities.
12. Work closely with IAASTD Secretariatto ensure timely completion o fthe work.

Budgetfor World FishCenter
Activity                                                                            cost (us195,000
                                                                                             $)
1.      Institute costs for Sept 1,2006 to Dec 31,2007
2.      Technical services: Preparation, printing and distribution o f ESAP report          36,000
Travel and workshops:
3.      Travel expenses for experts for global and sub-global workshops                    423,000
4.      Travel expenses for Bureau members and government representatives                  140,000
5.      Meetingcosts for global meeting                                                     30,000
6.      Outreach and Communications                                                          12,000
Sub-total travel and workshops                                                             605.000
                                                                    Total                  836,000


The detailed budgetestimateof the goodslservicesprocuredand a brief description of assumptionsmade
and data used to developthe estimate.
    Institutecosts for 16months (September 1,2006 to December 31,2007), i.e., salaries for two staffmembers
    ($73,000), staff travel ($11,OOO), office space and associatedcosts, e.g., telephone, mail, copying, utilities
    ($24,000), overhead ($9,450), WFC service charge for maintainingthe Special account from April 1,2006         -
    Dec 31,2007 at $550 per month($11,550) and mailing cost o f about 2,000 copies o f the final publications
    ($1O,OOO), honoraridstipendsas approved by the Bureauand confirmedby Secretariat ($52,000) and two
    annual audits of the project accounts ($4,000) for total o f U S $195,000.
    Technical services include: Preparation, printingand distribution o f ESAP report ($36,000). The mailing cost
    of 2,000 copies o f the publicationsi s included under Institute costs.

Travel and workshops include:
3. Travel (economy class tickets plus DSA) for ESAP experts to attend the global assessment meetings and for
    ESAP experts to attend the sub-global authors meetingsinthe ESAP region) =U S $423,000.
4. Travel (economy class tickets plus DSA) for ESAP Bureau members and government representatives to
    attend the Bureau and Plenary meetings= $140,000.
5. Meeting costs (e.g., meeting rooms and equipment) for the third global authors meeting - either WFC will
    pass the money through to a thirdparty to organize or hire additional staffto organize.
6. Details of the outreach and communications activities to be coordinated with the Secretariat.

Sub-global Assessments: 300 pages (200 pages o fwords), with 5000 word SDMs
Activity                                                   Estimated Cost
(i) Solidcopy-edit                                         $ 2,500
(ii) ComplexfiguresandSDMfigures                           $ 5,000
(iii) TranslationofSDMintoChinese                          $ 1,000
(iv)    Page setting                                       $ 7,500
(v)     Printing costs (1000 copies for each language)     $20,000

                                           Total:          $36,000


                                                     52

                          Annex 6:        ImplementationArrangements


      GLOBAL: InternationalAssessmentofAgricultural Science and Technology for
                                      Development (IAASTD)

 Implementation period. The proposed project would be implemented over a period o f two and
 half years (April 15,2006 to June 30,2008).

 Seven international organizations, FAO, UNDP, UNEP, UNESCO, World Bank, WHO and
 GEF, have agreed to co-sponsor the IAASTD. The IAASTDwill have a distributedSecretariat
'based at the World Bank inWashington, D.C, FA0 inRome, UNEP inNairobi and UNESCO in
 Paris.   The Secretariat will provide management and oversight o f the project, including
 monitoring the implementation and execution o f the project; ensure coordination among the
 global and sub-global assessments; manage the peer review process, provide technical support,
 and oversee communications and outreach. The Director o f the Secretariat and the IAASTDCo-
 chairs are jointly responsible for the intellectual leadership o f the project.

 Members o f the distributed Secretariat will coordinate/oversee one or more of the global and
 sub-global assessments. The World Bank will have overall responsibility for the global
 assessment, working closely with the other cosponsoring agencies intheir area o f expertise, and
 the sub-global assessments in East and South Asia and the Pacific (ESAP), Central and West
 Asia and North Africa (CWANA), and North America and Europe (NAE); and UNESCO will
 be responsible for Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC).               Each sub-global assessment,
 except for North America and Europe, will be managed by a regional institute: the World Fish
 Center for ESAP; the African Centre for Technology Studies for SSA; the Inter-American
 Institute for Cooperation onAgriculture forLAC; and ICARDA for CWANA.

 The Panel o f participating governments will meet inplenary to accept the global and sub-global
 assessments and approve the Summaries for Decision Makers. The multi-stakeholder Bureau
 selects the design teams, chairs, authors and review editors for the assessment and ensures a
 balance of disciplines, views, regional representation and gender. The Bureau will also have
 fundraising and financial sub-committee with oversight responsibilities for the budget, and a
 communications and outreach sub-committee to assist the secretariat develop and implement an
 appropriate outreach and communications strategy. Roles and responsibilities of all components
 o f the IAASTD management structure are discussed in Annex 16 (Principles and Procedures
 governing the IAASTD), which are modeled on those usedby IPCC and MA, were approved by
 the Bureau in December 2004.            The Secretariat liaises with governments, civil society
 organizations and the Bureau to ensure project implementation. The IAASTD work plan i s
 presented inAnnex 17.

 The World Bank will act as the GEF Implementing Agency (IA)responsible for coordination
 with GEF Secretariat, and will manage the multi-donor trust fund. The World Fish Center
 (otherwise known as ICLARM), the African Centre for Technology Studies (ACTS), the
 International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), and the Inter-
 American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA) will be the Recipient Implementing
 Institutions for the GEF funds. ACTS and IICA will be the Recipient Implementing Institutions
 for the World Bank's DGF grant. The Recipient Implementing Institutions will be involved in
 all aspects of the assessment and ensure high quality technical implementation; however, UNEP
 will pay particular attention to the environmental dimensions, while FA0 will pay particular
 attention to the plausible futures and agricultural dimensions o f the IAASTD. Collaboration
 between the IA and the EAs (UNDP, UNEP, FAO, UNESCO, the World FishCenter (otherwise


                                                   53

known as ICLARM), ACTS, ICARDA, and IICA (the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation
in Agriculture) will be ensured through monthly teleconferences, and regular meetings
associated with meetings o f the design teams, authors and Bureau. Budget analysts within the
Secretariat will work together to ensure financial implementation is transparent and responsible.

The IAASTD i s fully compatible with the role o f the World Bank as an Implementing Agency
(IA)inthe GEF, the largest contributor to the CGIAR, andamajor lender for agricultural S&T.
As the IA, the Bank brings a unique strength to the Project by virtue o f the trust it developed
among stakeholders during the consultative process and by its convening power and ability to
engage policymakers and key decision makers indeveloping countries. The Bank also bringsits
role as an invaluable resource for promotinginvestmentopportunities inagricultural science and
technology and mobilizing private sector, bilateral, multilateral, and other government and non-
government sector resources in efforts that are consistent with GEF objectives and national
sustainable development strategies. This Project will enhance the capacity o f the World Bank to
assist its member countries to better conserve and sustainably use their biological diversity,
reduce their emissions o f greenhouse gases, manage their land and shared water bodies more
sustainably.

UNDP, UNEP, the World Bank and FA0 are all involved in assisting developing countries
design and implement environmentally sound agricultural policies and projects. Through the
partnership o f these agencies on this Project, their individual efforts to mainstream or
incorporate global environment concerns as delineated by the GEF into all o f their agricultural
policies and programs will be enhanced. The findings o f the IAASTD will be used to improve
the design and implementation oftheir projects andpolicies relatedto agriculture (crops, forests,
livestock, fisheries, biomass and other non-food crops).

The four regional institutes that will act as the Recipient Implementing Institutions o f the GEF
and DGF grants are all involved in the agriclultural sector. The World Fish Center (otherwise
known as ICLAFW) and ICARDA are two CGIAR centers; IICA is responsible for coordinating
the agricultural sector in Latin America and the Caribbean and ACTS i s a regional science
policy institute addressing a broad range o f scientific and technical issues, including agriculture.




                                                 54

       Annex 7:        Financial Management andDisbursementArrangements

     GLOBAL: InternationalAssessment ofAgricultural Scienceand Technology for
                                    Development(IAASTD)

I. ImplementingEntities

1.1.   The World Fish Center (otherwise known as ICLARM) is an international nonprofit
       organization, a member o f the Consultative Group on international Agriculture Research
       (CGIAR). It is located in Penang, Malaysia. We performed an overall review o f the
       World FishCenter financial management arrangements. This included:


    0  Review of the audited (unqualified) financial statements for the years ended December
       31,2004 and 2003;
    0  Review o f the Management Letter for the year ended December 31,2004, issued by the
       external auditors o f the organization;
    0  Review of the Financial Management Rules and Regulations used by the organization
       (CGIAR Accounting policies and Reporting Practices).

In addition, an inquiry was made to the EAP regional FM group, requesting information
pertaining to the World FishCenter activities.
Following the detailed review o f information listed above, it was concluded that the World Fish
Center (otherwise known as ICLARM), has established financial management arrangements in
place meetingthe Bank's requirements and loweringthe project risk to modest.

1.2.   International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) is an
       international nonprofit organization, a member o f the Consultative Group on
       international Agriculture Research (CGIAR). It is located in Aleppo, Syrian Arab
       Republic. We performed an overall review o f ICARDA financial management
       arrangements. This included:


    0  Review o f the audited (unqualified) financial statements for the years ended December
       31,2004 and 2003;
    0  Review o f the Management Letter for the year ended December 31, 2004, issued by the
       external auditors o fthe organization;
    0  Review o f the Financial Management Rules and Regulations used by the organization
       (CGIAR Accounting policies and Reporting Practices).

In addition, an inquiry was made to the MENA regional FM group, requesting information
pertaining to the ICARDA activities.
Followingthe detailed review o f informationlisted above, it was concluded that overcoming the
previously existing problems, ICARDA has established financial management arrangements in
place meetingthe Bank's requirements and lowering the project risk to modest.

1.3.   Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA) is an international
       nonprofit organization. It i s located in San Jose, Costa Rica. We performed a desk
       review of IICA financial management arrangements. This included:


    0  Review o f the audited (unqualified) financial statements for the years ended December
       31,2004 and 2003;
    0  Review o f the Financial Management Rules and Regulations used by the organization.

                                               55

IICA declined the World Bank's request to present the latest management letter, issued by the
external auditors.
In addition, an inquiry was made to the LAC regional FM group, requesting information
pertaining to the IICA activities.
Following the detailed review of obtained information, it was concludedthat while IICA has put
in place financial management arrangements, the risk posed by placing Bank funds into this
environments i s still substantial, therefore, there i s a need to set up special disbursement
arrangements assuring that the risks posed to the World Bank funds would be sufficiently
lowered.

1.4.    African Centre for Technology Studies (ACTS) is an international nonprofit
        organization. It i s located in Nairobi, Kenya. We performed a desk review of ACTS
        financial management arrangements. This review included:

    0   Review o f the audited (unqualified) financial statements for the years ended December
        31,2004 and 2003;
    0   Review o f the Management Letter for the year ended December 31, 2004, issued by the
        external auditors o f the organization ;
    0   Review o f the Financial Management Rules and Regulations used by the organization.

In addition, an inquiry was made to the AFR regional FM group, requesting information
pertaining to the ACTS activities.
Following the detailed review o f information listed above, it was concluded that ACTS has
established financial management arrangements inplace meeting the Bank's requirements and
loweringthe project risk to modest.

11.     Accounting Systems and InternalControlsArrangements

2.1.    The implementing agencies already have in place the structure, staff and internal
controls, supporting financial management and accounting activities; thus, the project would
utilize existing arrangements.

111.    ReportingArrangements

3.1.    Each of the four implementingorganizations will semi-annually prepare and submit un-
audited interim financial statements, hereafter referred to as Financial Management Reports
(FMRs) to the Bank. The FMRs should be prepared according to the requirements o f the
Financial Management Practices in World Bank-Financed Investment Operations. Their format
should be agreed upon by the sides during the negotiations. The FMRs should be submitted to
the Banks review within 45 days following the end o f the reporting period.

3.2.    The form and content o f the annual financial reports will be consistent with that o f the
FMRs and in case o f ACTS it will be included to the annual financial statements o f the
organization.

N. FlowofFundsandDisbursements

4.1.    The World FishCenter,ICARDA and ACTS will operate through the individualUSD
Special Account, which will be opened and maintained at the commercial banks acceptable to
the World Bank. The authorized allocation i s estimated to be U$200,000 for ACTS and


                                                 56

US$150,000 for ICARDA and World FishCenter respectively. Procedures for the flow o f funds
from the grants will be implemented with due regard to safeguarding project's resources and
ensuring timely execution o f payments. Before payments for acquisition o f goods and services
can be processed, a purchase order or contract must exist. The implementing agencies will
reconcile (monthly) the project bank accounts and include this reconciliation, along with the
other required documentation to the withdrawal application submittedto the Bank.

4.2.    IICA would operate by prepaying eligible project expenditures according to the
implementation program, and subsequently submitting reimbursement applications, supported
by all required documentation, to the World Bank. A minimum amount for an individual
withdrawal application will be set at $ 20,000. IICA can also utilize the direct payment option to
finance the eligible project expenditures.

4.3.     Statements of Expenditures-based disbursement. The project's disbursements will be
transaction-based and will be made on the basis o f the Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs). Each
implementing agency will be responsible for the periodical (based on the disbursement needs)
preparation o f their respective SOEs.

V.      ExternalAudit

5.1.     Each organization will have the annual financial statements referred to in paragraph 3.2
above for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and according to the TORS
acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be due no later than 4 months after the end o f the
fiscal year.

VI.      SupervisionArrangements

6.1,     The project supervision arrangements should follow the requirements o f the Financial
Management Practices in World Bank-Financed Investment Operations, and will involve
participation o f the financial management specialists assigned to the respective regions at the
request o f the project TTL. Suggestedperiodicity o f the project supervision i s once a year.

VII.     Disbursementfor Activitiesat RegionalInstitutes

  Disbursementsto RecipientImplementingInstitutionsby Disbursement Category(US $)




The disbursement categories are:

Technical Services: Disbursements for Technical services under this project are the translation
and publication o f the Final Sub-global Reports (sub-global assessmentsreports).
Travel and workshops: The Recipient Implementing Institutions will pay from project funds
for air tickets, per diems and workshop relatedcosts for the Bureau and Plenary meetings and for
lead authors from developing countries to attend global and sub-global assessment author

                                                57

meetings. Outreach and communications costs are included. The travel o f the IAASTDCo-Chair
to author meetings i s includedunder the Travel and workshops expenditure o fACTS.
Operating costs: ICARDA, IICA and W C will be supported by project fbnds to pay project
operating costs including salaries for two staff members, staff travel, office space (and associated
costs, e.g.,  telephone, mail, copying, utilities) and a fixed overhead. In addition to this, the
Recipient Implementing Institutes will pay an agreed amount o f honoraridstipends to authors for
participating inthe IAASTDprocess and contributing to the development o f the Assessment. All
the Institutes will also pay the mailing cost of 2,000 IAASTDpublications. Fundsare also included
inOperatingcosts to supportthe audit ofproject accounts duringtwo years at ICARDA, IICA and
WFC.




                                                  58

                          Annex 8:        ProcurementArrangements

     GLOBAL: InternationalAssessment of Agricultural Scienceand Technology for
                                      Development (IAASTD)

 A: General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; and the
provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement.
Procurement of Technical Services: Technical services procured under this project are the
translation and publication o f the Final Sub-global Reports (sub-global assessments reports).
Procurement of these Technical Services will be subject to Prior Review by the Bank. Services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Shopping.
Travel and workshops: The Recipient Implementing Institutions will pay from project funds
for air tickets, per diems and workshop related costs for the Bureau and Plenary meetings and for
lead authors from developing countries to attend global and sub-global assessment author
meetings. Outreach and communications costs are included. The travel of the IAASTD Co-Chair
to author meetings is includedunder the Travel and workshops expenditure o fACTS.
Operating costs: ICARDA, IICA and WFC will be supported by project funds to pay project
operating costs including salaries for two staff members, staff travel, office space (and associated
costs, e.g.,  telephone, mail, copying, utilities) and a fixed overhead. In addition to this, the
Recipient Implementing Institutes will pay from project funds an agreed amount of
honorariahtipends to authors for participating in the IAASTD process and contributing to the
development o f the Assessment. All the Institutes will also pay the mailing cost o f 2,000 IAASTD
publications. Funds are also included in Operating costs to support the audit o f project accounts
duringtwo years at ICARDA, IICA andWFC.

The table below sets forth the Categories o f items to be financed out o f the proceeds o f the Grant
and the allocation o fthe amounts o f the Grant to eachCategory.

                 ProjectCost by RegionalInstitutesandProcurement Category

    Procurementcategory            ACTS            IICA    ICARDA          WFC         TOTAL
    Technical services                 63,000       63,000    37,000        36,000        199,000
   Travel and workshops               793,000      297,000    527,700      605,000      2,222,700
    Operating costs                    65,000      151,000    167,300      195,000        578,300
   Total cost                         921,000      511,000   732,000       836,000      3,000,000

B:       Assessment of the Recipient Implementing Institutions' capacity to implement
procurementandthe Bank's review of procurementdecisions

Only one procurement activity ("Publishing o fthe Final Sub-global Reports") is anticipated.
Procurementwill be conducted by shopping method. Procurement activities will be carried out
byACTS, IICA, ICARDA andWFC andprocurementrisk is minor as each step will beprior-
reviewedby the Bank.




                                                  59

                       Annex 9:       Economicand FinancialAnalysis

       GLOBAL:International Assessmentof Agricultural Science andTechnology for
                                     Development (IAASTD)


SectionD1noted that an economic and financial analysis i s not applicable for this project, but
that the project design includes cost-effectiveness considerations to promote maximum
implementation effectiveness. Therefore, this Annex describes the Incremental Cost Analysis
submittedto the GEF Councilfor approval.

BROADENVIRONMENTALANDDEVELOPMENT                 GOALS

Broad Environmental Goals: Application o f the knowledge generated through the IAASTD
should provide significant local, national, regional and global environmental benefits, including
reducing the overall rate o f natural resource loss and land degradation, enhancing landscape
biodiversity bothinareas o f land use and inprotected areas, reducing the rate o f soil, runoff and
nutrient losses, diminishing the contamination and eutrophication of fresh waters and soils,
reducing the rate o f greenhouse gas emissions, and increasing the amount o f carbon fixed in
agricultural systems. This would be achieved if the knowledge generated by the IAASTD i s
used to design and implement appropriate policies, regulations and incentive structures to
support integrated natural resource and agricultural management, and to stimulate investments to
address local, national, and global environmental issues within the context o f sustainable
development.      The IAASTD will also strengthen the capacity o f institutions to design and
implement integrated management approaches.

Broad development goals:          Application o f the knowledge generated through the IAASTD
should assist in reducing hunger and poverty, improving rural livelihoods, and health, and
facilitating equitable, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development
through;

    the development o f appropriate policies, regulations and incentive structures to support
     integratednatural resource and agricultural management;
     increasing investments that are made to simultaneously address local, national, regional and
     global environmental issues within the context o f sustainable agriculture;
0    improving agricultural productivity under sustainable management, while enhancing the
     livelihoods o fproducers; and

The developmental goal o f IAASTD may therefore be summarised as the improved access to
agricultural KSTthat will promote and facilitate sustainable agricultural practices.

The current public and private sector funding for international agricultural research and
development i s estimated to be about U S $33 billion per year, including the CGIAR, while
public funding for research and monitoring on climate change and natural resources (including
biodiversity) i s estimated to be more than U S $3 billionper year. It is the knowledge generated
from these research and monitoring activities, as well as local and indigenous knowledge that
will provide the base that will be assessedbythe IAASTD.

The IAASTD will complement and establish linkages with other major regional and global
initiatives such as NEPAD, the MDG Hunger Task Force, the Inter-Academy Council (IAC)
Study on Science and Technology Strategies for Improved Agricultural Productivity and Food


                                                 60

Security in Africa, the FA0 State o f Food Insecurity Reports, the International Food Policy
Research Institute's "plausible futures" work, the MA and the IPCC.

Sustainable agricultural practices will directly, and through improved natural resource
management, contribute to improvingpeople's livelihoods, food security and health.

The multi-thematic nature o f the IAASTD is unique, i.e., the IAASTD will simultaneously
address nutritional security, livelihoods, human health, and environmental sustainability.
Without GEF financial support, it is highly unlikely that the environmental issues would be
addressed indetail.

BASELINESCENARIO

Two factors make the baseline scenario o f IAASTD somewhat problematic to calculate. First, as
with other global assessments such as the MA, the global scope o f the project presents
methodological difficulties for the baseline costs, which are normally calculated in a national
context. Therefore, the baseline (and incremental) cost analysis follows the procedures used in
previous global assessments supported by GEF such as MA, LADA and GIWA. While a number
of global assessments o f sub-sectors related to agriculture are available and form part of the
baseline o f this project, no assessment o f agricultural KST at global and sub-global levels has
previously been attempted that fully integrates environmental concerns with those o f
productivity, livelihoods and human health.

Secondly, there are a large number o f projects that could have been included in the baseline on
the grounds that they have some relevance to IAASTD's global and sub-global activities. These
could have included surveys o f global scope for agricultural science and technology conducted
by OECD, UN scientific organizations such as FAO, UNESCO and UNRISD, as well as
regional surveys conducted by the regional development banks, EU and bilateral aid
organizations. Therefore, a fairly conservative estimate o f the contribution o f other projects has
been retained for the baseline scenario to reflect IAASTD's global scope and its focus on a
common framework for assessingthe impact o f agricultural KST on land managementpractices,
rural livelihoods, nutritional status, health, equity and the environment.

Without GEF funding, the IAASTD will not be able to move beyond the conventional approach
to agricultural assessments, which tend to focus on production. The baseline for the four
components o f IAASTD has therefore been constructed from an analysis o f the more recent
(past and current) projects and the proportions o f their budgets that could be described as
contributing to the IAASTD.

INTERNATIONALAND GLOBAL               (COMPONENTS 1,2 AND 4)

Elements o f the following international and global projects contribute to the relevant component
baselines and are also included in the International Associated Financing total (as noted only
elements of each of these assessments addressed the issues to be dealt with inthe IAASTD). In
most cases these estimated budgets do not include significant amounts of in-kindcontributions,
e.g., salary costs o f authors.



  The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment GEF Project Brief estimates that if all relevant initiatives were to be
included for global assessments, a conservative estimate is that some US3 billion is spent annually on research or
assessment work related to ecosystems. An even larger estimate could be put forward for KST for agriculture,
climate and natural resources (about $36 billion per year), but is not included inthis incremental costs analysis.

                                                         61

      The MDG HungerTask Force: US$3 million(estimated);
      The FA0 State o f FoodInsecurity Reports: US$l million(estimated);
      The International Food Policy Research Institute research on "plausible htures": US$2
      million;
      The FA0 Agriculture Towards 2015/2030:U S $ l million
      The MillenniumEcosystemAssessment (World Bank & UNEP): US$12 million;
      IntergovernmentalPanel on Climate Change (WMO andUNEP) ThirdAssessment
      report: US$20million;
      Global InternationalWaters Assessment: US$13 million;
      Global Biodiversity Assessment: US$3 million;
      Global Forest Resources Assessment (FAO, 1992-1999): US$16.5 million;
      World Overview o f Conservation Approaches and Technologies (WOCAT): US$2.25
      million;
      Science Policy focus assessment for CGIAR (FPRI-ISNAR Addis Ababa) US$1
      million;
      Global Land Cover Network: US$1.2 million;
      Other projects (e.g. IWMIComprehensive Assessment o f Water, Food and Agriculture;
      FPRI Impact o f Agricultural Research on Poverty (IARP), UNEP surveys and data sets
      etc.): estimated US$15.5 million
TotalAssociatedInternational and Globalprojects: US$91.45million

SUB-GLOBAL (COMPONENTS 1,3 AND 4)

      The Inter-Academy Council (IAC) Study on Science and Technology for Improved
      Agricultural Productivity and Food Security inAfrica: US$1 million (estimated)
      The Millennium EcosystemAssessment (World Bank & UNEP): US$8 million;
      IntergovernmentalPanel on Climate Change (WMO andUNEP) Third Assessment
      report: US$5 million;
      Agriculture databases and policies, various projects 2002 onwards (OECD): US$2.7
      million
      Assessment o f rural poverty: Asia and the Pacific - plus related projects 2002 onwards
      (FAD): $US3 million
      Environmental RiskAssessment for European Agriculture - EUConcerted Action:
      US1.1million
      Africover; Asiacover; and related sub-global databases (FAO); US$2.6 million
      Information and Communication Technologies for Development (IDRC - e.g.
      Assessment o f Animal Agriculture insub-Sahara Agriculture) - various projects: US2.85
      million
      Agricultural technology, poverty reduction and food security in Asia (ADB) - various
      projects: US$16.5million
      Other regional and sub-global projects: est. US$20million

TotalAssociatedSub-global projects: US$63 million


BASELINEBYPROJECTCOMPONENT

Component 1:Conceptual framework for integrated assessments An improved conceptual
                                                                     -
framework for conducting integrated assessments at local, national, regional and global scales,
and over multiple time-scales, developed, tested and disseminated.

                                               62

A substantial body of past and current research underpins existing approaches and frameworks
for assessments in the agriculture and environment sectors. However, these assessments have
limitations for the purpose o f this project, which i s an integrated scientific assessmento f the role
o f agricultural KST in development. Either they tend to take sets o f technologies for specific
purposes in agriculture (e.g. soil conservation - WOCAT framework), thereby being highly
selective inpromoting innovations inone area only, or they survey specific environmental assets
with little, if any connection to developmental goals. Frameworks and approaches commonly
employed, which have been reviewed for this baseline calculation, include quantitative
frameworks such as in GFRA and qualitative as in the IPCC reports and the MA. The most
relevant framework for the IAASTD i s the MA, which linked drivers to ecosystem services to
human well being and used panels of experts to review and assess ecosystem components and
impacts, and small writing teams to construct the full assessment according to a common
template. The applicable baseline for these and other frameworks and approaches has been
conservatively estimated at US$8 million. If the full historical and in-kindcost o f the projects
that have been reviewed for this Component were to have been used, the baseline could have
beenenhanced by a factor of at least ten.

Component 2: Global assessment           -  A global assessment using the IAASTD framework
[Output o fOutcome 11i s completed

This component focuses on the global assessment. The baseline i s primarily comprised o f the
major assessments conducted world-wide by scientific bodies (e.g. IPCC), other GEF-UN
projects (e.g. MA) and multilateral institutions (GFRA - FAO). There are no standardised
frameworks, because each assessment addressed a different range o f issues, but most o f the
findings from these assessments will provide useful information for some elements o f the
IAASTD. However, the findings from these other assessments cannot be integrated to address
the range o f questions being addressed in the IAASTD.              In most cases, the scope of the
assessments has been limited, Le., they have not been multi-thematic or multi-temporal, and
have not addressed the policy, institutional and research issues proposed for IAASTD.
Furthermore, in most cases they are not adequately linked with policy and decision making
processes, and none have a governance structure that fully involves the full range o f
stakeholders. Ifthe baseline were to include the cost o f relevant research and development, and
satellite and ground-based monitoring systems, then the baseline would be tens o f billions o f U S
dollars per year. However, to include these would not be helpful in the baseline estimate since
the focus o f IAASTD i s to assess and synthesize information and not generate or collect data.
Only the parts o f listed projects at global level are most relevant to this IAASTD Component 2
have been factored into the baseline cost, which is conservatively estimated at US$ 50 million

Component 3: Sub-global assessments Five sub-global assessments (community to regional
                                             -
inscale) are completedusingtheIAASTDframework

Existing surveys at local, national and regional levels o f many agriculture-related topics are
commonplace and form the basis for assessments o f specific subject areas o f concern, such as
land degradation, loss of biodiversity and land cover. They form a baseline for IAASTD in
providing agricultural knowledge, science and technology. However, they are not using a
standardised framework, the scope o f the assessments has been limited, i.e., they have not been
multi-thematic, multi-spatial or multi-temporal, and have not addressed the policy, institutional
and research issues as proposed for IAASTD, and are not generally integrated with social and
economic issues. Inparticular, it i s difficult to use the existing assessments to make significant
contributions to sustainable development and to achieving the MDGs. Furthermore, most are


                                                  63

not adequately linked with policy and decision making processes. Nevertheless, they will
provide usehl information and data sources for the IAASTD. It i s difficult to isolate the sub-
global elements o f all the baseline projects but for the purposes o f this calculation all regional
delivery o f assessments have been factored in, as well as some o f the national assessments for
which there is significant information and some more regional or transboundary applicability.
The baseline i s conservatively estimated at US$30 million.

Component 4: Outreach and Communication Outreach and communication o f IAASTD
                                                    -
findings invarious media andto all stakeholders at various levels

Existing outreach and dissemination of agricultural KST and the findings o f the above-
mentioned assessments related to agriculture i s sporadic. Nevertheless, there have been notable
communications of some assessments such as the IAC, IPCC, MA, WOCAT and GLASOD
which have informed global policy decisions and alerted decision makers to problems in land
use and natural resource management. Regional centres, including those of the CGIAR, with
environmental assessment capacity currently play an important role in disseminating
information on how agricultural practices impact on hunger, poverty and the environment.
International institutions *similarlyhave disseminated the results o f their assessments. However,
in most cases the scope of the assessments has been limited, Le., they have not been multi-
thematic, multi-spatial or multi-temporal, hence so i s the information they communicate. A
major strength o f the IAASTD is the involvement o f all relevant stakeholders in the design,
preparation, and peer review o f agricultural KST, thus ensuring ownership o f the findings, and
the ability o f those involvedto communicate the results to colleagues within their own networks.
The baseline i s conservatively estimated at US$25 million, although it should be pointed out
that considerable additional sums have been expended inusingthe results of such assessmentsin
new programmes andprojects.

GLOBAL    ENVIRONMENTALOBJECTIVE

The global environmental objectives o f IAASTD are twofold. First, the project's assessment o f
agricultural KST will contribute to catalyzing the widespread adoption o f agricultural practices
that deliver global environmental benefits inbiodiversity conservation and its sustainable use in
agricultural systems, reduced emissions o f greenhouse gases from agricultural systems, reduced
vulnerability of ecological systems to climate change, reduced land degradation and improved
quality o f international waters impacted by agricultural systems. It will address the UNCBD
objectives o f conservation, sustainable use and equitable sharing o f the resources of biodiversity,
for example. Secondly, IAASTD i s designed to promote the informationto catalyze widespread
adoption o f comprehensive agricultural management practices that benefit the environment
while at the same time supporting the livelihoods o f the rural land users that are guardians o f the
environment.

DOMESTIC     ENVIRONMENTALOBJECTIVES

Participating countries in IAASTD will receive a number o f benefits. The IAASTD will enable
developed countries to disseminate their expertise and knowledge more widely to national and
bilateral aid programmes. Environmental objectives form a large part o f bilateral support for
many aid programmes. Such countries will be enhanced in their capability o f supporting
developing country partners with appropriate inputs o f agricultural KST, targeted to the
appropriate agricultural systems and socio-economic circumstances. The I A A S T D will enable
developing countries to share and exchange their expertise and knowledge with developed and
developing countries, as well as to build capacity to undertake IAASTD-based assessments


                                                64

regionally, nationally and locally, thereby building an enhanced capacity to make informed
decisions and providing better information to their own agricultural sectors. A particular feature
for developing countries and their domestic environments will be support to their NAPS under
the UNCCD and NARS. Without access to the best agricultural KST, many countries may see
their agricultural productivity stagnate and the degradation o f their natural resource base
accelerate.

GEFALTERNATIVE

Under the GEF alternative IAASTD will assess in-depththe impact o f agricultural knowledge,
science and technologies, practices and policies on the environment, e.g., land, soils, water,
biodiversity and climate. Hence, with GEF funding, the environmental as well as developmental
aspects of agriculture will be addressed in detail, globally and sub-globally. In addition, the
assessment will include the range o f stakeholders necessary to assess and synthesize what i s
known and not known about agricultural science, technology and development in a way that i s
readily accessible to decision makers, including themselves - ownership o f the process and
findings by the stakeholders will ensure the information is widely disseminated and used in
policy and project design and implementation.

GEFALTERNATIVE BYPROJECTCOMPONENT

Component 1: Conceptual framework and the development of annotated outlines for
integrated assessments (already completed).

The project will develop a conceptual framework and a set o f annotated outlines for conducting
integrated agricultural assessments at local, national, regional and global scales that builds upon
frameworks from previous assessments.

The overall goal is: "How can we reduce hunger and poverty, improve rural livelihoods, and
facilitate equitable, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development
through the generation, access to, and use o f agricultural knowledge, science and technology?"

The global and sub-global assessments will each address: (i)    Context, Concepts, Historical and
Current Perspectives; (ii)  Plausible Futures; (iii) Options for Making AKST Work Better to
Achieve the Development and Sustainability Goals: technologies and capacities; and (iv)
Options for Making AKST Work Better to Achieve the Development and Sustainability Goals:
investment andpolicy.

Section I:Context, Concepts, Historical and Current Perspectives. This section will set the
scene for the Assessment by discussing the key issues to be addressed, the context, the
conceptual framework that will be used for both the global and five sub-global assessments, and
will assess the current status o f development and sustainability conditions today. It will then
present an historical analysis o f AKST and AKST systems including that of the different
actors/organizations (with different sources o f knowledge) who participated, the institutions that
mediated the interactions among these actors, and the innovation processes that resulted.
Furthermore, it will assess the contribution o f AKST and AKST systems in achieving the
development and sustainability goals o f improved nutrition, human health, and livelihoods;
reduced hunger and poverty; and environmental and social sustainability. It will critically assess
factors that facilitated or constrained the role and contribution of A K S T research agendas,
capacities and capabilities inmeeting development goals.



                                                 65

Section 11:Plausible Futures: This section will describe the design, construction, application,
and outputs o f a range o f plausible futures o f relevance to IAASTD. This involves an analysis o f
the past and projected trends in the indirect and direct drivers o f change identified in the
IAASTD conceptual framework. Each o f the future world view views, or scenarios, i s
operationalized by a comprehensive storyline that describes the assumed evolution of and
linkages among drivers, as well as the evolution o f and impact on other factors o f interest in
interpreting the future o f agriculture and, within than, AKST. Application o f the storyline of
each scenario over time involves a good deal o f analysis and interpretation that relies on both
quantitative and qualitative methods. This section also includes a review o f the utility existing
scenarios and storylines from other assessments and development exercises, and adapt past
efforts to IAASTD's purpose and needs. Existing storylines will be enriched through a more
comprehensive representation and analysis o f the development o f AKST, and then brought to
life through the scripted storylines that weave together the global development goals, the key
challenges and issues, AKST and enabling policy and institutional contexts.

Section 111: Options for Making AKST Work Better to Achieve the Development and
Sustainability Goals: Technologyand Capacity. This section will buildupon the findings from
sections Iand I1and hence will be informed by historical lessons and plausible futures. The
section will assess options to enhance the role o f the generation, access, dissemination, and use
o f AKST in achieving the development and sustainability goals (see Section I)in a more
effective, efficient, equitable, sustainable and transparent way. This section will not be
normative or policy prescriptive, but rather present options. Authors will consider addressing
the implications o f emerging paradigms for improvingthe impact o f AKST on the development
and sustainability goals; and the options for capacity strengthening, needed to ensure the
capacity needed to address different the goals. The chapters will assess options with respect to
the outputs o f the five plausible future scenarios:


0   Outions to enhance the imuact o f AKST. How can conventional technologies and knowledge,
    new agricultural technologies and knowledge, non-agricultural technologies and knowledge,
    and locally generated technologies and knowledge contribute to addressing the development
    and sustainability goals? What are the relevant contributions to achieving these goals o f
    individual, professional, institutional and social learning, change and commitment?
0   Options for Stren~heningCapacity. What are the ranges o f skills, institutions, organizations,
    modes o f behavior, and policies that are needed to strengthen AKST capacity? To what
    extent i s this capacity determined by different goals and contexts (including investments and
    optimal institutional arrangements) and what are the implications o f this for enhancing the
    role of AKST inachieving the development and sustainability goals?

Section IV:      Options for Making AKST Work Better to Achieve the Development and
Sustainability Goals:Iinvestment and Policy
This section, like section 111, will build upon the findings from sections Iand I1and hence will
be informed by historical lessons and plausible futures, and will not be normative or policy
prescriptive, but rather present options. The section will assess the policy, enabling environment
and investment options to enhance the role o f the generation, access, dissemination, and use o f
AKST in achieving the development and sustainability goals in a more effective, efficient,
equitable, sustainable and transparent way. The chapters will assess options with respect to the
outputs o f the five plausible future scenarios:


0   Options for the uolicv/enablinn environment. How can policies, regulations and institutions
    be modified to create a stronger enabling environment that facilitates the generation,
    dissemination, access and adoption o f AKST and strengthen AKST capacity to address the


                                                    66

     development and sustainability goals and the key challenges and issues in an uncertain
     future?
0    Options for public andprivate sector investment inAKST, the implications inthe governance
     of the innovation system. and an assessment o f the economic returns and its distribution
     among different actors o f past and future investments.

Component 2: Global assessment            - An expert and government peer reviewed global
assessment using the Bureau approved IAASTD conceptual framework and annotated outlines
[Outcome of Component 11completedbuildingupon previous assessments.

One o fthe principaloutputs o fIAASTDwill bean expert and governmentpeer reviewed global
assessmento f agricultural KST, accepted and approved by the Panel o fparticipating
governments, usinga consistent set o f concepts, and addressing historical and current
perspectives; plausible futures; and options for makingAKST work etter to achieve the
development and sustainability goals. The IAASTD will take into account enabling conditions
and contextual issues that affect the generation, use, accessibility and effectiveness o f
agricultural KST. The global assessment (and sub-global assessments) will be characterizedby
following:

 9 demand driven, andall stakeholder groups involvedinthe scoping, preparation, peerreview,
 >   outreach and communication;
     process open, transparent, representative, and legitimate, with well defined principles and
     procedures;
 9 whenappropriate, localandindigenousknowledge(often informal), aswellas formal
     scientific knowledge incorporated;
 9 findingsandanalysestechnically accurate andevidence-based, notvalue- laden;
 >'  policy relevant but not policy prescriptive, i.e. provide options rather than
 >   recommendations;
     different points o f view and uncertaintieswill be presented and quantified, where possible.

This project's assessment of agricultural KST will contribute to catalyzing the widespread
adoption o f agricultural practices that deliver global environmental benefits in biodiversity
conservation and its sustainable use in agricultural systems, reduced emissions o f greenhouse
gases from agricultural systems, reduced vulnerability o f ecological systems to climate change,
reduced land degradation and improved quality o f international waters impacted by agricultural
systems.

Component 3: Sub-global assessments Five sub-global assessments (community to regional)
                                            -
usingthe Bureauapproved IAASTD conceptual framework and annotated outlines [Outcome of
Component I]buildinguponprevious regional assessments.

One o f the principal outputs o f IAASTD will be five expert and government peer reviewedsub-
global assessments o f agricultural KST accepted and approved by the Panel o f participating
governments, addressing the same basic issues which will be addressed inthe global assessment,
i.e., historical and current perspectives; plausible futures; and options for making AKST work
better to achieve the development and sustainability goals, but focusing on the highest priority
issues for eachregion.

The five sub-global assessments (Central and West Asia and North Africa; East and South Asia
and the Pacific; Latin America and the Caribbean; NorthAmerica and Europe; and Sub-Saharan
Africa) will be performed at the regional, national or local scales and will complement the


                                                  67

Global Assessment by examining context-specific aspects o f the Global Assessment. Each o f
the sub-global assessmentswill use the same basic framework as the global assessment, i.e., the
impacts o f agricultural KST on rural livelihoods, nutritional security, equity, the environment
and human health will be evaluated in relation to both the past and the future. The sub-global
assessments will vary in scale from continents to communities, will use a consistent
methodology, cover a range of ago-ecological systems, and employ selection criteria that take
into account socio-economic and institutional conditions, and poverty mapping.

Component 4: Outreach and Communication Outreach and communication o f IAASTD
                                                     -
findingsinvarious media and to all stakeholders at various levels

The GEF Alternative with IAASTD i s a substantially enhanced capacity for informed decision
making related to interventions inthe agricultural, environmental and natural resource sectors.
The outreach and communications strategy will include:

1. Development o f a web site, which will include all relevant documents including the
  minutes/decisions o f Bureau and Plenary meetings, annotated outlines o f the global and sub-
   global assessments, the Conceptual Framework, lists o f authors and review editors, meeting
   schedules (author, Bureau and Plenary); draft reports for expert and government peer review;
2. Development o f outreach and communications strategy by Bureau and Secretariat
3. Targeted outreach to key user goups usingmedia, workshops and conferences
4. Publication and distribution o f global and sub-global assessmentreports
5. Availability of global and sub-global assessmentreports onweb site (www.agassessment.org)
6. Monitoringo f uptake o f IAASTDproducts




                                                 68



i
+
24
5
e,

8
*,
e,
VI
&2m
I
U
m

U
9
E
0
I



c
Ef


                                 Annex 10:           SafeguardPolicy Issues

The Project is designated a Category C project as it i s likely to have minimal or no adverse
environmental impacts. Beyond screening, no further EA action is required for a Category C
project.

   Safeguard PoliciesTripgeredby the Project                                          Yes                   No
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                            11                   [XI
   Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                       [I                   [ XI
   Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                            [I                   [X 1
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                               [I                   [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                [I                   [XI
   IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, being revisedas OP4.10)                                  [I                   [XI
   Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                [I                   [XI
   Safetyof Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                          [I                   [XI
   ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)'                                            11                   [XI
   Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                  [I                    [XI

Environmental Rating: C




'By supportingtheproposedproject. the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'claims on the
disputed areas


                                                           73

                    Annex 11: ProjectPreparationandSupervision

      GLOBAL:InternationalAssessment ofAgricultural Science and Technology for
                                     Development (IAASTD)


                                                     Planned       Actual

 PCNreview
 Initial PID to PIC
 Initial ISDS to PIC                                    ---
 Appraisalhegotiations                           January 2006
 BoardRVP approval                                March2006
 Planned date of effectiveness                    March 2006
 Planned date ofmid-tern review                    April 2007
 Planned closing date                              June 2008




, Fuad Bateh              Legal Advisor                                     LEGEN
  Charles Di Leva         Legal Advisor                                     LEGEN
  Maurizio Ragazzi        Legal Advisor                                     LEGEN
  Elmas Arisoy            Senior Procurement Specialist                     ECSPS
  Pekka Jamsen.           Senior Technical Specialist                       ARD
~



  Edward Daoud            Senior Finance Officer                            LOAGl
  Hyachinth Brown         Senior Finance Officer                            LOAG2

Total Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
GEFresources: $350,000 (PDF-Bgrant)
Bank Budget: $30,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1.   Remaining costs to approval: 0
    2.    Estimatedannual supervision cost: $100,000




                                                   74

                     Annex 12:    Documents inthe Project File

   GLOBAL:InternationalAssessment ofAgricultural Science andTechnology for
                                Development (IAASTD)


A:  Project ImplementationPlan
B:  International SteeringCommittee Report
C:  DGFproposal
D:  GEF PDF-Bproposal
E:  GEFproposal
F   STAP review
G:  Letters o f agreement with UNEP for the DGF grant
H:  Letters o f agreement with UNEPfor the GEF PDF-B grant
I: MDTFagreementdletters: Australia, Canada, EuropeCommission, France, Ireland,
    Switzerland, UK,USA and the private sector.
J:  Approval to hire a Finnishnational into the secretariat
K:  Decisions fromthe first IntergovernmentalPlenary
L:  Decisions from the first Bureaumeeting
M:  Decisions from the second Bureaumeeting
N:  Annotated outlines for the global and sub-global assessments
0:  GEFSEC approval letter for the GEF proposal




                                            75

 Annex 13:         Report of the First Plenary Meeting of the I A A S T D -Nairobi, Kenya

       GLOBAL:International AssessmentofAgricultural ScienceandTechnologyfor
                                          Development (IAASTD)


FirstPlenary Meetingof the InternationalAssessment ofAgricultural Science and
Technology for Development (IAASTD)
                           30 August -3 September 2004, Nairobi, Kenya

                                             Agreed Decisions


Introduction

This paper reports the decisions agreed at the First Plenary Meeting o f the International
Assessment of Agricultural Science and Technology for Development held at UNEP
Headquarters, Nairobi, Kenya from 30 August to 3 September 2004.


Decision 1 Objectives, goals and outputs of the IAASTD

The Plenary, having considered the recommendations o f the Steering Committee for the IAASTD
consultative process,
1. Decides that the broad objectives o f the IAASTD are to:
         a.   undertake global and sub-global assessmentso f the role o f knowledge, science and
              technology (KST) as it pertains to agriculture inreducing hunger and poverty, improving
              rural livelihoods, and health, increasing incomes and facilitating equitable,
              environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development;
         b. provide robust information for decision makers onhow to ensure that policies, practices
              and institutional arrangements enable KST to contribute to reducing hunger and poverty,
              improvingrural livelihoods and health, increasing incomes, and facilitating equitable,
              environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development; and
         c.   bring together the range o f stakeholders (consumers, governments, NGOs, private sector,
              producers, scientific community, international agencies) involved inthe agricultural
              sector and rural development to share views, gain common understanding and vision for
              the future.

2. Decides that the primary goals o f the IAASTD are to:
         a.   assess the effects o f agricultural KST policy and institutional environments, as well as
              practices, inthe context o f sustainable development';
         b. make the resulting state-of-the-art, objective analyses accessible to decision makers at all
              levels - from small scale producers to those who create international policy;
         c.   identifywhere critically important information gaps,exist inorder to more effectively
              target research; and
         d. further the capacity of developingcountry nationals and institutions to generate, access,
              and use agricultural KST that promote sustainable development.

3. Decides that the primary outputs will include published (printedand web-based) critical in-depth
global and sub-global assessments o f local and institutional knowledge and experiences, and that the
Summaries o f the reports will be translated into the six official languages o f the UnitedNations,

'Reducinghunger      and poverty, improvingrural livelihoods, and health, increasing incomes and
facilitating equitable, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development.

                                                      76

4. Recognizes that the primary outputs o f the IAASTDmay lead to:
        a.   more directed and targeted agriculturally relevant researchprograms and policies to
             contribute to reducing hunger and poverty, improving rural livelihoods and health,
             increasing incomes and facilitating equitable, environmentally, socially and economically
             sustainable development;
        b. more effective institutionalarrangements to enable the adoption of advances in
             agricultural KST, includingbetter integration o f traditional and institutional knowledge;
        c.   increased uptake and adaptation o fknowledge, research results and technologies by
             producers;
        d. better integration ofresearch into outreachprograms and policy decisions;
        e.   better understanding o f the effects o f agricultural polices, practices, technologies and
             institutional arrangements on ecosystems and their goods and services, and on
             biodiversity; and
        f. betterunderstanding ofoptions for making agriculture more environmentally sustainable.


Decision 2 Structure and approach for the I A A S T D

The Plenary
1. Decides that the IAASTD will use a multi-disciplinary approach, andbe multi-scale, addressing
global and sub-global (community to regional) issues. The global component will address issues with
broad relevance and be interlinked with the sub-global assessments.

2. Decides that the global component o fthe IAASTD will be framed by analyses o fhistory andthe
future:

Historical lessons
        a.  an analysis o f existingknowledge to determine factors responsible for successes and
             failures inthe use o f agricultural KST (by region, farm scale, type o f technology, etc.) in
             the context o f sustainable development;
        b. IAASTDwill provide a critical retrospective ofproducer and consumer responses to local
             and institutional agricultural KST, institutional systems and policies and the subsequent
             effects on the environment, health, poverty, equity, and nutritional security; and
        c.  an analysis o f the rate o f return on investments in agricultural KST.

Plausiblefutures
        d. IAASTDwill present a plausiblerange o f future scenarios for agricultural production
             (crop, livestock, fishery, forest, fiber and biomass), demand and trade, nutritional security,
             and water, soil and land use between now and 2050 given a range o f demographic,
             climatic, ecological, economic, cultural, socio-political, and technological projections.

This framework will provide the context for assessing the:
        e.  relevance, quality and effectiveness o f agricultural KST; and
        f. effectiveness ofpublic andprivate sector policies andinstitutional arrangements
             (including at the community level) inrelation to agricultural KST;

inrelation to thebroader objectives of:
        1. hunger andpoverty reduction and the improvement o f rurallivelihoods and incomes;
        2.   the environment (water, landuse, soils, biodiversity and atmosphere);
        3.   equitable, socially and economically sustainable development; and
        4.   human health (nutrition and food safety).

IAASTD will take into account enablingconditions and contextual issues that directly affect the
generation, use, accessibility and effectiveness o f agricultural KST.



                                                       77

3.   Decidesthat IAASTDwould complement not duplicate existing activities anddevelop a set o f
strategic priority issues agreed by all stakeholders.

4. Decidesthat the sub-global assessmentswill use the samebasic framework as the global
assessment, i.e., historical lessons andplausible futures will frame the assessments. The sub-global
assessments will vary in scale from continents to communities, will use a consistent methodology,
cover a range o f ago-ecological systems, and employ selection criteria that take into account socio-
economic and institutional conditions, and poverty mapping.


Decision3        Outlinefor the global componentof the IAASTD

The Plenary


Decidesthat the global assessmentwill contain 3 sections: (i)    Historical lessons; (ii) Plausible futures;
and (iii)Relevance, quality and effectiveness o f agricultural KST, and institutions andpolicies. Gender
analysis will be utilized inall three sections. The chapters will be based on the questions developed by
the Plenary, reviewed, and approved by the Bureau, taking into consideration the questions raised
duringthe regional consultations andbythe Steering Committee that directed the consultative process.
These questions are summarized inAppendix 1. Additional questions, consistent with the broad
framework approved by the Plenary, can be taken into account by the design teams. Decision 2
summarizes the broad content o fthe chapters.




Decision4        Approach for the sub-global components of the IAASTD

The Plenary

1. Decidesto conduct five sub-global assessments: Sub-Saharan Afiica, East and South Asia and the
Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean, Central andWest Asia andNorth M i c a , and Europe and
North America. Eachsub-global assessment will utilize the methodology for the global assessment: that
is, the impacts o f agricultural KST on rural livelihoods, nutritional security, equity, the environment and
human health will be evaluated inrelation to both the past and the future. The methodology will
explicitly acknowledge the multiple functions o f agriculture - satisfying demand; improving rural
economies, livelihoods, and health; and sustaining its environmental and natural resource foundation.
The scope o f each sub-global assessment will be determined by the priorities established within the
region (consistent with the available budget), agreed by the regional Bureaumembers and approved by
the full Bureau.

2. Decidesthat regional institutional partners nominatedby the Secretariat andapprovedby the
Bureauwill assist with the sub-global assessments. The involvement o f regional institutions will
ensure the inclusion and support o f authors and reviewers from the region and ground the IAASTD
process inregional and local concerns. Utilizing institutional partners inthe design, implementation,
and authorship of the Assessments will:
         a.  enhance sub-regional, regional andlocal capacities;
         b. helpbuildsynergy betweenregions as they work together to develop internally consistent
             methodologies;
         c.  promote and extend linkages and partnerships to enhance sustainable development beyond
             the lifetime of the IAASTD process;
         d. allow for the needs o fmultiple institutions andusers to be addressed;
         e.  greatly extend the communities that will contribute to and learn of the results o f the
             IAASTD process at the local, national, and regional levels;
         f. facilitate the inputfromnational assessmentsintotheregional assessments; and



                                                      78

        g. assist the Secretariat incommunication and outreachwithin the regions including with the
              Regional Development Banks.


Decision5        Design meetingsfor the global and sub-global assessments

The Plenary
1. Decidesto approve a design meeting o f about 85 experts, nominatedby governments and other
stakeholder groups and selected by the Bureau, to prepare a detailed outline for the global assessment,
based on the outline and questions approved inDecision 3. The Bureauwill ensure balance among the
selected experts: geographic, area o f expertise, gender, andinstitutional/stakeholder.

2. Decidesto approve design meetings (one persub-global assessment) o f about 45 experts,
nominatedby stakeholder groups and selected by the appropriate regional members o f the Bureau, to
prepare a detailed outline for each o f the sub-global assessments, based on the approach approved in
Decision 4. The Bureauwill ensure balance among the selected experts: geographic, area o f expertise,
gender, and institutionallstakeholder.

3. Decidesto approve a final design meeting for the global and sub-global assessmentso f about 30
experts, representing the global and sub-global assessments, to finalize the designs and ensure
methodological consistency and complementarity o f work.


Decision6        Timetable for preparing,peer reviewing and approvingthe global and sub-global
assessments

The Plenary
Decides, assuming fundingis immediately available, to approve a timetable, which includes the
following key features:
         a.   one additional Plenary meeting;
         b. three additional Bureaumeetings;
         c.   a series o f design meetings;
         d.   four lead author meetings for each o f the global and sub-global assessments;
         e.   two combined global and sub-global lead author meeting; and
         f. two rounds ofexpert and government peerreview to ensure quality.


 Decision 7      The Budget

The Plenary
1. Decidesto approve the baseline budget for the IAASTD o f US$10.76 Mover a maximumperiod
o f three years with the assumption that at least 80% o fthe needed funds are secured by July 2005.

2.   Decides that since the Plenary recognizes that there is value inundertaking further work beyond
the IAASTD work plan as framed inDecisions 3,4 and 5, any additional work approved by the
Bureauwould give priority to activities that increase ownership and broaden participation at regional
and sub-regional levels.

3.    Recognizesthat the baseline IAASTD budget is based on the following assumptions:
         a.   the travel costs (transportation, hotel, per diem) o f authors from developingcountries and
              countries with economies intransitionto the design and author meetings are covered -
              coach class only;
         b. the travel costs (transportation, hotel, per diem) o f government representatives from
              developing countries and countries with economies intransition to plenary meetings are
              covered, limited to one representative per country - coach class only;



                                                       79

       c.   the travel costs (transportation, hotel, per diem) to Bureau meetings for government
            representatives from developing countries and countries with economies intransition who
            are elected to the Bureau are covered- coach class only;
       d.   the travel costs (transportation, hotel, per diem) for NGO, consumer, producer and
            developing country private sector representatives elected to the Bureau are covered for
            Bureau and plenary meetings -coach class only;
       e.   OECD governments pay their own travel costs to Plenary meetings and other relevant
            meetings;
       f. OECDgovernmentspay thetravel costs oftheir ownexperts to the leadauthor meetings;
            and
       g.   some expert authors and review editors may be offered honoraria (butno salary
            compensation) based on criteria developedby the Bureau.

4. Recognizesthe major expenses o fthe baseline budget are:
       $US
       Plenary I                                    390K
       Design meetings                              495K
       Meetings (plenary and bureau)       750K
       Meetings (global assessment)                 980K
       Meetings (sub-global assessment)            1575K
       Sub-global institutions             960K
       Honoraria                                     150K
        Secretariat                                3780K
       Communication and outreach                    500K
       Publications/translation            1180K
        Contingency                                    0

        TOTAL                                               10760K

5.  Encouragesin-kindsupport from developing countries and civil society. For example, travel
expenses for experts to attend designteam meetings andlead author meetings and representatives to
attend Bureau and/or Plenary meetings, and self-funded national assessmentsutilizingthe same
methodology as the sub-global assessments that contribute to the sub-global assessments.


    Decision 8           Approach for financialcontributions

The Plenary

1. Decidesto adopt the approach taken by the IntergovernmentalPanel on Climate Change, i.e.
voluntary contributions reflecting equitable cost sharing (not the UNindicative scale).

2. Decidesthat contributions would be sought from the co-sponsoring agencies (FAO, UNDP,
UNEP, UNESCO, World Bank, WHO), the Global Environment Facility, governments, foundations,
regional development banks and civil society, includingthe private sector.

3.  Decidesthat cash contributions will be placed ina multi-donor trust fundmanagedby the
Secretariat and dispensed based on funding decisions recommended by a finance committee and
approved by the Plenary or by the Bureau.

4. Decides to accept in-kindor earmarked contributions, e.g., a Regional Development Bank
contributing to a sub-global assessment, but must be approved by the Bureau to maintain overall
transparency.

5.  Recognizesthat the required financing o f about US$10.76M for the baseline budget over three
years, which could be achieved by donations of:


                                                      80

        a.  US$3M from the World Bank budget and WB Development Grants Facility;
        b. US$3.35M from the GEF (includes $350K from a PDF-B grant);
        c.  US$4.4 1 M from cosponsoring agencies, OECD governments, foundations, and others.

6. Decidesthat once the baseline budget o f US $10.76M is realized, additional fundingwill be sought
to increase ownership and broadenparticipation at regionaland sub-global levels.


Decision9        Compositionofthe Bureau, geographicgovernmentrepresentationon the
Bureau, selection processesfor governmentand non-governmentBureaupositions, and terms of
referencefor the Bureau

The Plenary
1. Decidesto approve the composition o fthe Bureau, which is based on the recommendation o fthe
multi-stakeholder steering committee, i.e. a Bureau o f 62 members: 2 co-chairs, 30 government
representatives, 22 non-government representatives and 8 representatives from institutions. The 22
non-government representatives will consist of:
        a.   6 non-governmental organizations (NGOs);
        b.   6 private sector;
        c.   6 producers; and
        d. 4 consumers.

2.   Decidesthat the co-chairs o fthe Bureau will be those electedbythe Bureauto co-chair the
IAASTD.

3.   Decidesto approve the proposedregional distribution:
        a.   Central and West Asia and NorthAfrica (4);
        b. Sub-Saharan Africa (6);
        c.   Latin America and the Caribbean (5);
        d. East and SouthAsia andthe Pacific (6);
        e.   Europe and NorthAmerica (9).

4.   Decidesthat Bureaumembers should have relevant technical or scientific expertise ina field such
as agriculture (production, marketing, processing, research, etc.), health, nutrition, gender, rural
development or the environment, and that members shouldpromote trust among the stakeholders and
demonstrate broad vision.

5.   Decides that:
        a.   the IAASTD co-chairs will be electedby the Bureau;
        b. the plenary (i.e. the Panel o fparticipating governments) will elect the government
             representatives of the Bureau, with each region selecting its own members, taking into
             account areas of expertise and gender balance and the criteria set out above;
        c.   the non-governmental stakeholders (producer and consumer organizations, NGOs and the
             private sector) select their own members o f the Bureau, taking into account geography,
             expertise, and gender, via four nominating committees (one from each group) based on
             the criteria set out above;
        d. the following institutionswill also be representedonthe Bureau: CAB International
             (CABI); the Consultative Group on InternationalAgricultural Research (CGIAR); the
             Kyrgyz Agricultural Research Institute; the International Center for Research on Women
             (ICRW); the InternationalCouncil for Science (ICSU); the Rockefeller Foundation; the
             ThirdWorld Academy of Science (TWAS); the World Conservation Union (IUCN); and
        e.   the cosponsoring agencies and the Global Environment Facility will serve as ex-officio
             members o fthe Bureau.

6.   Decidesthat once the Bureaumembership has been finalized, the members will be listed in
Appendix 2.


                                                    81

7.   Decides that the terms o f reference for the Bureau include:
        a.       designing the nomination process for the IAASTD co-chairs;
        b.       selecting authors for the design meetings;
        C.       selecting authors for the preparation o fthe global and sub-global assessments;
        d.       selecting review editors;
        e.       developing an outreach and communications strategy;
        f.       developing a capacity-building strategy;
        5        overseeing the management o f the sub-global assessments;
        h.       advising the Plenary on emerging issues o f concern;
        i. acceptingadditionalfunctionsrequestedbythePlenary;and
        j.       oversight o f the budget.

8. Decides that if a vote needs to be taken on a specific issue, ie., inthe event that consensus cannot
be reached, only the government members will vote, after listeningto the views o f the non-government
representatives, given the intergovernmental nature o f the IASSTD


Decision 10      Principles and Procedures for the I A A S T D

The Plenary

1.   Decides to forward for review andapproval the Principles and Procedures inIAASTD-PI/Doc. 8
to the Bureau, which are based on those developed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
andthe internationalMillennium Ecosystem Assessment, and endorsedbythe steering committee, and
address the following key issues:
        a.   composition and roles and responsibilities o f the Bureau;
        b. roles and responsibilities of the Secretariat;
        c.   eligibility for participation inthe plenary;
        d.   conflict resolution;
        e.   procedures for the preparation, review, acceptance, approval, adoption and publication o f
             the IAASTD;
        f. processes for the selectionofauthors andreview editors; and
        g.   tasks and responsibilities o f the lead authors, coordinating lead authors, contributing
             authors, expert reviewers, review editors and focal points.


 Decision 11 Criteria and process for the selection of co-chairs for the I A A S T D

The Plenary
1.   Decides to request the Bureau, with the assistance o f the Secretariat, to design a nomination
process for two co-chairs to be elected at the beginning o f the second Bureau meeting, with due
consideration for balance with respect to gender, geography, area o f expertise and sector o f
employment:
        a.   one co-chair should be from a developed country and the other from a developing
             country; and
        b. one should have abackground inthe naturalsciences and the other insocial sciences.

2.    Decides the selection criteria for the co-chairs should include:
          a.    well respected intheir field o f expertise;
          b.     capacity to facilitate a complicatedprocess;
          c.     demonstrated intellectual leadership;
          d.     ability to inspire unity among stakeholders;
          e.    impartiality on contentious issues, such as biosciences;
          f.    commitment to allocate at least 30% o f their time over the three years o f the IAASTD
                process;


                                                      82

      g.     ability to co-chair intergovernmental meetings(i.e., the plenary meetings) andmulti-
            stakeholder Bureaumeetings;
      h.     ability to chair multi-disciplinary scientific meetings;
      i. politicallyastute;
      j.     fluency inEnglish; with excellent ability to communicate, verbally and inwriting;
      k.     experience with international andor assessmentprocesses; and
      1.     literacy across bothnaturaland social sciences.

3. Decides to charge the Bureau with assessing whether an honorarium is required for one or both co-
                                   chairs and the appropriate level.




                                                  83

       Annex 14:        Decisionsmade at IAASTDBureauMeetingin Montpellier
                                               25-27 May 2005


Decisions
The issues requiringdiscussion/decisions at the second IAASTD Bureaumeeting were
     1.      Approval o f the IAASTD Conceptual Framework (s)
     2.      Approval o f the annotated outlines for the IAASTD Global and Sub-global Assessments
     3.      Current Status o f Implementationo fthe IAASTD
     4.      Budget and Finances
                     Status o f funding and approval o fbudget
                 0   Establishment o f finance committee and its terns o f reference
                     Travel support for OECD academic, civil society and governments authors
                     Compensation for co-chairs
                 0   Honorarium
     5.      Selection and roles o f regional institutes
                 0   Relationship with Secretariat and Bureau
     6.      Philosophy of, and process for, author selection
                 0   Establishment o f a sub-committee for selection o f authors for the global assessment
     7.      Establishoutreach and communication committee and terms o f reference
     8.      Approval o f Principles & Procedures
     9.      Time schedule
     10.     Website
             0   Alternative web sites
             0   Privacy Concerns
     11.     Approval o f the process for developing a set o f indicators to be used throughout IAASTD


Most o f these issues were covered, although two were inadvertently missed. We ask you to comment on
these two issues by email by 17 June. Thereafter, the Secretariat will send out an amended decision
paper.
The two items that were not discussed were:

#4 Budget and Finances: Compensation for Co-chairs.

Inthe NairobiPlenary meeting, it was decided that the Bureaucould decide on the amount of
compensation for the developing country co-chair. On the advice o f the chair o f the board for the African
Centre for Technology Studies, we request the Bureauapprove compensation inthe amount o f
US$40,000 annually to be paid to ACTS for Professor Wakhungu's time. The Secretariat suggests that,
for this year, the Outreach and Communications and Publications & Translation line items inthe budget
be reduced by $22.5 K each; assuming the Bureau approves this expenditure. Ifthe Bureau approves this
expenditure, but does not agree with the Secretariat's suggestion, we seek your advice as to which budget
line items should be reduced. The Bureau, when it meets next year, should decide on the source for the
second year funding o f Professor Wakhungu's time inthe amount o f $45 K.

# I O Website: Privacy concerns

Would the Bureau have an objection to their contact information (name, organizatiodgovemment, work
telephone number and e-mail address) made available on the password protected I A A S T D intranet (not
the publicly accessible IAASTDwebsite)?




Minutes of Bureau Meeting         25-27 May


                                                       84

   M a y 25
   The Bureau met inPlenary with the members o f the Integrated Design team on Wednesday, 25 May
   2005. The conceptual framework(s), annotated outlines for the global and sub-global assessmentswere
   presented, discussed and subsequently approved after a number o f suggested changes were approved.



*  Decision 1       Approve the Conceptual Framework
   After minor modifications, the Bureauendorsed the use o f two compatible conceptual frameworks to
   guide the global andsub-global assessments. The first provides aworldview, which places AKST as one
   driver among a larger group o f drivers o f change affecting the development and sustainability goals. The
   second provides a framework to guide the way the Assessment will explore how AKST relates to and
   interacts with other drivers, agricultural goods and services and the development and sustainability goals.

   Decision 2       Approve the annotated outline of the Global Assessment
   The Bureau approved the annotated outline o f the global assessment with the following caveats: (i)    a
   numbero f simple, but important changes aremade, e.g., explicitly mention HIV/AIDS and communities
   as important actors; (ii)  enhanced emphasis on gender; (iii)  harmonization o f the issues listed inchapters
   1,4 and 7 (Appendix 1); and (iv) Chapter 3 and Section 4 modified to better incorporate some o f the
   issues listed inthe former chapter 12. The Bureau agreedthat special emphasis/coordination will be
   needed for: (i)the access, availability and management o f natural resources, particularly water; (ii) public
   and private sector investments inAKST; and (iii)      markets. One outstanding question that does not need
   to be resolved at present i s whether a twelfth chapter i s needed to synthesize the findingso f Section 4, or
   whether this will be adequately covered inthe Summary for Decision Makers.

   Decision 3       Approve the annotated outlinefor Central and WestAsia and North Africa
   The Bureau approved the annotated outline with only minor changes.

   Decision 4       Approve the annotated outline for Sub-Saharan Africa
   The Bureau approved the annotated outline on conditionthat the details included inthe Nairobiversion
   were incorporated into the structure presentedto the Bureau.

   Decision 5       Approve the annotated outlinefor East and South Asia and the Pacific
   The Bureau approved the annotated outline with only minor changes.

   Decision 6       Approve the annotated outlinefor North America and Europe
   The Bureau approved the annotated outline with only minor changes.

   Decision 7       Approve the annotated outlinefor Latin America and Caribbean
   The Bureau approved the annotated outline with only minor changes.


   Thursday and Friday, 26-27 M a y
   The Bureau met inPlenary to discuss the following agenda items.

   Decision 8       Approve the budget
   The Bureau discussed and approved the budget with the following amendments: (i) agreement to re-
                                                                                            an
   instate the Bureau meeting scheduled for 2006; (ii)    to decrease the budget lines for outreach and
   communications and publications by $70K each to pay for the re-instated Bureau meeting; (iii)       to
   increase the baseline budget from $10.76M to $10.86M to reflect the additional cash contributions o f the
   cosponsoring agencies during the last year; and (iv) to show in-kindcontributions from OECD
   governments, institutions and international organizations in footnotes (travel costs incurred for the design
   team meetings, travel costs projected for the remainder ofthe assessment). The Bureau endorsed the
   Secretariat's efforts to limit travel costs by selecting less expensive cities for author meetings.

   Decision 9       Approve the continuation of the IAASTD


                                                          85

The Bureau agreed the Assessment should proceed given that more than 90% o f the baseline budget has
been secured (assuming the GEF grant for $3Mwill be forthcoming). Ireland committed to provide an
additional $1OOK, subject to appropriate contributions relative to their size fromother governments, and
France re-affirmedtheir commitment for a total o f $300K. The private sector agreed to give serious
consideration to provide financial support, and the Secretariat committed to send a formal proposal to the
private sector.

Decision 10      Approve thefund-raising strategy
The Bureau agreedthat the'finance and fund raising committee would assist the Secretariat in
fundraising. The Bureau notedthat promotional literature was needed for additional fundraising and
tasked the Secretariat with developing a brochure as soon as possible.

Decision 11      Approve aprocess tofacilitate travelfunding for OECD experts
The Bureau recognizedthe importance o f this issue and agreed to investigate possible approaches at the
national level to ensure that travel funds would be available to ensure the participation of OECD experts
inthe global andNAEsub-global assessment.

Decision 12      Approve criteriafor honoraria, amount and timeforpayment
The Bureau agreed that coordinating lead authors (CLAs) from non-OECD countries andwho do not
work for an IGO or one o f the CGIAR centers are eligible for an honoraria o f US$2000 in
acknowledgement of chapter coordination functions. The Secretariat was given authority by the Bureau
to use the remaining funds allocated for honoraria as they deem appropriate. Therefore, up to seven lead
authors per sub-global assessment who are responsible for accessing and assessing local knowledge and
who are not CLAs are eligible for an honoraria o f $1000.

Decision 13      Approve the selection of thefour regional institutes
The Bureau confirmed the selection o f the African Centre for Technology and Science (ACTS) as the
institute responsible for coordinating the Sub-Saharan assessment and the Inter-American Institute for
Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA) for the Latin America and Caribbean assessment. The Bureau also
agreed that regional institutes were needed to coordinate the sub-global assessments inCentral and West
Asia and North Africa (CWANA) and East and South Asia and the Pacific (ESAP). The Bureau
approved the Secretariat to contact ICARDA and the World FishCenter to coordinate the CWANA and
ESAP sub-global assessments, respectively. These regional institutes will be asked to partner with
National ResearchInstitute o f Morocco and the Chinese Academy o f Agricultural Sciences, respectively.

Duringthe discussion onthe roles o fthe four regional institutes, the Bureau clarified that they should
assist inidentifying authors within their region, but not participate intheir selection, which is the role of
the Bureaumembers. The Bureaualso endorsed the regional institutes playing a key role inoutreach,
communications and publicity.

Decision 14      Approve theprocess to select authorsfor the Global Assessment
The Bureau agreed that the approved annotated outline for the global assessment will be sent to all
Bureaumembers by June sthor earlier, accompanied by: (i)       a 1-2 page initial selling document, and (ii) a
1-2 page report on the responsibilities and time requirements of the authors and review editors, as well as
a schedule for author meetings. The Bureau agreed that all nominations with a CV of up to 3 pages, for
the global assessmentmust be received by the Secretariat by June 27'.      The Secretariat will map the
nominations against the approved annotated outline and send the mapped list to the selection committee
(see next paragraph) by July 17th.

The Bureau agreed to establish a selection committee to screen the nominations for full Bureau approval.
The selection committee, which will be comprised o f the 20 members (shown intable below), will have
two weeks to make their selections. The Bureau agreed that if four or more members o f the Bureau
objected to the recommended selection o f a C L A or LA, the selection committee would take that into
consideration inmaking its final  recommendations to the Bureau. The Bureau requested the selection
committee to select a complete set o f alternates so that the Secretariat can proceed inthe case of
nominatedauthors declining the invitation to serve. The author selection becomes final one week after


                                                      86

the Bureau receives the nominations from the selection committee unless, as noted, there are four
objections. The goal i s to send invitations to selected authors by August 12" for a meeting from
November 14" - 17".




Private sector        Producers             Consumers            Institutions        NGOs
Steve Parry           Prabha Mahale         GregJaffe            Emile Frison        M.Rahmaniam
Gisele D'Almeida      ShoaibAziz            Jose Vargas          M.Hassan            Romy Quihano



ESAP                   NAE                    CWANA                 LAC                  SSA
Philippines            France                 Iran                  Uruguay              Mozambique
Australia              USA                    Turkey                Brad                 (TBD)

There was general agreement that the expected time requirement for lead authors (LAs) is about 1month
per year and for coordinating lead authors (CLAs) about 6-8 weeks per year. Inaddition, the Secretariat
agreed to send a sample o f the letter that was previously sent to governments soliciting author
nominations for the global assessment. The Bureau also agreed that CLAs can suggest LAs, but the
CLAs mustreceive approval from the Bureau. The CLAs and LAs can solicit contributions from
contributing authors without Bureau permission.

Duringthe Bureau meeting it was notedthat several of the experts who are selected for Section I1
(Current and Historical) may be selected for section IV (Options for Action) to ensure consistency inthe
issues addressed.

The Bureau agreed that each o f the four sections o f the global assessment, i.e., (i)
                                                                                     context; (ii)
                                                                                                 current
and historical; (iii)
                    scenarios/plausible futures; and (iv) loolung forward/options for action, will be
coordinated by a member o f the secretariat (Hans Herren, Judy Wakhungu, Bob Watson and Prabhu
Pingali) along with one o f the coordinating lead authors.

Decision 15      Approve theprocess to select authorsfor the Sub-Global Assessments
The Bureau agreed that the approved annotated outline for the sub-global assessments willbe sent to all
governments/institutions withintheir region accompanied by: (i)1-2 page initial selling document, and
                                                                    a
(ii)1-2pagereportontheresponsibilitiesandtimerequirementsoftheauthorsandrevieweditors,as
     a
well as and schedule for author meetings. A linkto the revisedglobal outline will also be provided for
governments/institutionsso they can nominate additional authors (with a deadline o f June 27). As inthe
case o f the global assessment: (i)there was general agreement that the expected time requirement for lead
authors (LAs) is about 1monthper year and for coordinating lead authors (CLAs) about 6-8 weeks per
year; (ii)that CLAs can suggest LAs, but the CLAs must receive approval from the Bureau; and (iii)
CLAs and LAs can solicit contributions from contributing authors without Bureau permission. The
Bureau agreed that all nominations for the sub-global assessment must be received by the Secretariat by
July 20. The Secretariatlregional institutes will map the nominations against the approved annotated
outline and send the mapped list to the regional selection committees (see next paragraph).

The Bureau agreed that the regional and institutional Bureau members will screen within two weeks the
nominations for their region for full Bureau approval. As inthe case for the global assessment, if four or
more members o f the Bureau objected to the recommended selection o f a C L A or LA, the selection
committee would take that into consideration inmaking its final recommendations to the Bureau. The
Bureau requested the selection committee to select a complete set o f alternates so that the Secretariat can
proceed inthe case o f nominated authors declining the invitation to serve. The author selection becomes
final one week after the Bureaureceives the nominations from the selection committee unless, as noted,
there are four objections. The Bureau also agreed that the LAs will self-select two co-chairs for their
respective sub-global assessment from among themselves.

Decision 16      Approve the composition of thefinance andfundraising committee


                                                      87

The Bureau agreed that the finance and fundraising committee would have an open membership. The
initial members include: Australia, Brasil, Canada, China, France, Ireland (chair), Saudi Arabia, UK,
U S A
Syngenta, Consumers for Science inthe Public Interest.

Decision 17      Approve the terms of reference for thefinance andfundraising committee
The Bureau agreedthat the finance and fundraising committee will prepare decision papers and other
documentation for the full Bureau to approve. The primary responsibilities o f the committee will include:
(i) theSecretariatwithfund-raising;(ii)
   assisting                                       facilitatingpreparation o f budget material for full
Bureau approval; and (iii)  ensuring compliance with agreed expenditures. The work o f this committee
will be done through regular email and teleconferences.

Decision 18     Approve the composition of the outreach and communications committee
The Bureau agreedthat the committee would have an open membership. The initial members include:
Canada, Ireland, Russia, UK,USA, ATDP, CAB1(chair), Greenpeace, Cargill, and Consumers
International LatinAmerica. Betsi Isay will be point person inthe Secretariat for the committee. Other
Bureaumembers mayjoin ifinterested.

Decision 19     Approve the terms of reference for the outreach and communications committee
The Bureau approved an initialterms o f reference for the outreach and communications committee,
which included: (i)  developing an outreach andcommunications strategy; (ii)    proposing, incollaboration
with the Secretariat, an allocation o fresources for approval bythe Bureau; (iii) advising on the web site;
(iv) promoting the IAASTDat international meetings andother fora; and(v) publicizingthe work plan.
The committee has beentasked with developing a final terms o f reference, for review and approval by
the Bureau. The work o f this committee will be done through regular email and teleconferences.

Decision 20     Approve the revised Principles and Procedures
The Bureau approved the changes inlanguage on decision making and a few other minor changes.

Decision 21     Approve the time schedule
After an in-depth discussion o f the time required for the author nomination and selection process, the
Bureau agreed to delay the sub-global author meetings untilafter September. The Secretariat was tasked
with working with the regionalinstitutes to develop a revised schedule. The Bureau agreed that the most
appropriate time for the next Bureau meeting would be afier the first peer review, but prior to the third
meeting of authors, inorder to assess whether the global and sub-global assessments were providing the
type o f information expectedby the Bureau. The Bureauwill not provide a technical assessment, rather
programmatic guidance.

Decision 22     Approve theprocessfor Bureau-Secretariat-Regional Institutes interactions.
The Bureau agreed that members should go through the Secretariat for contactingregional institutes in
order to maintain clear lines o f communication. Contacts within Secretariat for regional institutes are as
follows:
UNESCOLAC                 Guillen Calvo            sc.ecol @unesco.org
UNEP/SSA                  Anna Stabrawa            anna.stabrawa@unep.org
                          Nalini Sharma            nalini.sharmaaunep.org
WB/ESAP                   Eija Pehu                epehu@,worldbank.org
WB/Global                 Beverly McIntyre         bmcintvre0,worldbank. org
WB/NAE                    (Finnishnationalto be named later; for nowuse WB/Global contact)
FAOICWANA                 (to be namedlater; for now use WB/Global contact)

Decision 23     Approve theprocessfor developing a set of indicators
The Bureau agreed that the Secretariat should develop a short paper on indicators within next three
months for review and approval by the Bureau. The indicators should buildon the substantial work done
to date by the cosponsoring agencies and through the MDGprocess, and should balance innovation and
pragmatism.



                                                      88

Scenarios:      TheBureau approvedthefollowing scenarios design team meetings:

18-20 July          A small exploratory/methodological meeting inFAO, Rome, consisting o fexperts
                    and Secretariat staffto: (i) how to methodologicallyintegrate AKST into the
                                                discuss
                    MAscenarios; (ii) abroadapproach to structure AKST; (iii) how to
                                         frame                                           assess
                    bring the global storylines/scenarios, which have regional specificity, together with
                    the detailed regional storylineshcenarios; and (iv) assess what methods are available
                    to quantitatively and qualitatively model the global and sub-global storylines. The
                    Bureau agreed that the Secretariat should invite one expert from each o f the sub-
                    global design team meetings.

Mid-August          A meeting, incollaboration with the UNEP Global Environment Outlook (GEO), to
                    develop detailed regional AKST storylines. The invitees would consist o f a subset
                    o f experts from the sub-global design teams, in addition to the GEO experts. The
                    IAASTDwould provide funding for four experts from each sub-global design team
                    meeting.

14-17 September     A meetingof experts to finalize the global and sub-global AKST storylines, which
                    willbe embedded within the MA storylines, and to agree on how to model the
                    storylines. The Bureau agreed to nominate experts for this meetingby June 27,
                    particularly experts on technologies, institutional arrangements andpolicies, who did
                    not attend any o f the global or sub-global designteam meetings or who were not
                    involved inthe MA process. The Secretariat would develop a recommended
                    invitation list for review and approval by the Bureau, usingthe same procedures as
                    for the selection o f authors for the global and sub-global assessments. This meeting
                    will includemany, but not all o fthe authors selected for the scenarios sections o f the
                    global and sub-global assessments.

Web-site:       TheBureau approvedguidelinesfor use of theIAASTD logo and name
The Bureau agreedthat: (i) Secretariat will develop a set o f guidelinedethics for the password
                            the
protected site; (ii)
                  use o f the IAASTD logo, stationary, etc., i s only with Bureau approval; (iii)the
IAASTD acronym can only be used as a domain name (url) on the official web site and cannot be used
for any another web site.

Translation:
There was an in-depthdiscussion o f the issue o f languages. The secretariat noted that the global
assessment and sub-global assessmentswould primarily be inEnglishdue to the issues o f cost and time.
While limited interpretation i s possible insome author meetings, the time and cost of translation o f draft
reports would be prohibitive. However, regions such as L A C may primarily work in Spanish, while SSA
inEnglishandFrench. The sub-global institutes needto evaluate the feasibility o fworking inmultiple
languages recognizingthe issues o f time and cost.




                                                      89

....     a ..



     *
     E%8
     w

*
E58
P
F

c)
3
55
d

0
Y

Annex 16:     Principlesand ProceduresGoverningthe InternationalAssessment of
                Agricultural Science and Technology for Development

GLOBAL: InternationalAssessmentofAgricultural ScienceandTechnology for Development
                                              (LAASTD)

   Definitionof anAssessment
   1. A scientific assessmentis a critical, objective evaluation and analysis o f information,
       includingindigenous and localknowledge, designedto meet user needs and support decision
       making. It applies thejudgment o f experts to existing knowledge to provide scientifically
       credible answers to policy relevant questions, quantifyingwhere possible the level o f
       confidence.

   Purpose
   2. The internationalassessmentonthe role o f agricultural science and technology inreducing
      hunger and poverty, improvingrural livelihoods, and facilitating equitable, environmentally,
       socially and economically sustainable development through the generation, access to, and use
       o f agricultural knowledge, science and technology (hereinafter referredto as IAASTD) shall
       concentrate its activities on a critical assessment o f the literature, experience and knowledge
       pertaining to the scope o fIAASTD as defined by the Panel o fparticipating governments.
   3.  The role o f IAASTD will be to comprehensively, openly and transparently assess the
       scientific, technical and socio-economic literature, experience andknowledge relevant to how
       agricultural science and technology can reduce hunger and poverty, improverural
       livelihoods, and facilitate equitable, environmentally, socially and economically sustainable
       development through the generation, access and use o f agricultural knowledge, science and
       technology. The IAASTD Report shouldbe policy relevant butnot policy prescriptive, and
       deal objectively with scientific, technical and socio-economic issues.
   4. Peer review o f local and institutional knowledge byrelevant experts ingovernment and civil
       society shall be an essential part o fthe I A A S T Dprocess.

   Organization
   5. The Panel o f participating governments, which shall be open to all Member states o f the
   cosponsoring agencies, shall make major decisions concerningI A A S T D inPlenary meetings with
   advice from a 60-member multi-stakeholder Bureau comprisedof 30 governments and 30
   members from civil society, the private sector and scientific institutions. Responsibilitieso f the
   Bureauwill include making decisions on authors, reviewers and financial matters.

   All Bureaumembers should haverelevanttechnical and scientific expertise ina field such as
   agriculture (production, marketing, processing, research, etc.) health, nutrition, gender, rural
   development or the environment. Inaddition, individuals should promote trust among the
   Stakeholders and demonstrate broadvision. The Bureau will be effectively balanced with respect
   to gender and geographic representation. The Bureau will form committees as needed for
   selection o f global authors, finance and fund-raising, and communications and outreach. These
   committees will prepare documents as needed for considerationby the full Bureau.

   The Panel o fparticipating governments will elect government representatives o f the multi-
   stakeholder Bureau. Representatives from producer, consumer, nongovernmental, and private
   sector entities will nominatetheir delegates through a parallel process.




                                                   93

The Cosponsoring Agencies (FAO, UNDP, WHO, UNEP, UNESCO and the WB) will serve as
ex officio membersof the Bureau. The Panel will approve the membership o f scientific
organizations on the Bureau with input from the Cosponsoring Agencies.

Two co-chairs (one from a developed country and one from a developing country) will be elected
bythe Plenary with consideration for gender and expertise.The co-chairs will chair the Plenary
and Bureau sessions, sessions o f the Global authors andprovide intellectual leadership for
IAASTD.

The Secretariat will overseethe day-to-day management of IAASTD.The Secretariat will act as a
technical support unitfor IAASTD andwill organize sessions o f the Panel and Bureau and
sessions of the global and sub-global (community to regional) assessments. The Secretariat will
propose the annual budget and manage the Trust Fund.Itwill oversee and coordinate IAASTD
public information and outreach activities and it will publicize and disseminate reports to the
relevant stakeholder groups, including translation of summaries into all six official UN
languages. The Secretariat will monitor the progress of I A A S T Dactivities and ensure
coordinationamong global and subglobal (community to regional) assessments. Itwill liaise with
member governments and other relevant stakeholder organizations on IAASTD matters. The
Director of the Secretariat will be appointed by the Heads o f CosponsoringAgencies and will
provide intellectualleadership along with the Co-chairs. The Director will appoint the staff,
which will be drawn from within and from outside of the Cosponsoring Agencies. Staff will have
the requisite technical, communication and administrative skills.

Participation
6. Participationinthe Plenarywill be open to all Membercountries o f the Cosponsoring
Agencies. Interpretationinall six official UNlanguages shallbe provided for sessions o f the
Plenary. Invitationsto participate inthe Plenary meetings shall be extended to governments and
participatingorganizations by the co-chairs of IAASTD.
7. Experts from Member countries or international, intergovernmentalor non-governmental
organizations maybe invitedintheir personal capacity to contribute to the preparation andpeer
review of IAASTD.

Decisions
8. Intersessional decisions are adopted five working days after communication to the members
    o f the Bureauon ano-objectionbasis. All recommendations o f a subcommittee o f the Bureau
    willbe sent to the full Bureaufor approval on ano-objectionbasis. Bureaumembershave
    one week to review and comment. Iffour or more membershave an objection to a
    subcommittee recommendation, thenthe subcommittee should take any substantiated
    objections into account inmaking their final decision, which i s then communicated to the full
    Bureau. Inthe case of the fund-raising and finance committee, all decisions will be taken by
    the full Bureau.
9. For the subcommittees on author selection the following will apply. Experts from member
    countries or international, intergovernmentalor non-governmental organizations may be
    invitedintheir personal capacity to contributeto the preparation andpeer review o fthe
    IAASTD. The subcommittees will make the initial selection ofcoordinating leadauthors,
    lead authors, review editors and alternatesbased on nominations from all stakeholder groups
    and the subcommittees will communicate the list to the full Bureau inaccordance with
    paragraph 8. The Secretariat should inform Governments o f citizens selected from their
    countries.




                                              94

Conflict resolution
9. The Panel shall endeavor to reach consensus intakingdecisions regardingall matters related
to IAASTD, and inapproving, adopting and accepting the Report. Ifconsensus isjudged
impossible by the relevant body, the following proceduresshould be followed: (a) on procedural
issues the Rules and Procedures of UNEP GoverningCouncil should be followed to resolve the
matter; (b) for decisions on approval, adoption and acceptanceo f the report, the differing views
shall be explained and, upon request, recorded. Differingviews on a matter concerning a
scientific, technical or socio-economic document shall be represented inthe document concerned.
Differing views on matters o f policy shall be recorded inthe report of the session.


Procedures for the preparation, review, acceptance, approval, adoption and publication of
the IAASTDReport

10. Definitions
"Acceptance" signifies that the materialhas not been subjected to line-by-linediscussion and
agreement, but represents a comprehensive, objective and balanced view o f the subject matter

"Adoption" i s a process o f endorsement section by section (i.e., not line-by-line).

"Approval" signifiesthat the material has been subjectedto line-by-line discussion and
agreement.

"IAASTD Report" i s the ensemble of the Global Assessment Report; the Subglobal Assessment
Reports; and their Summaries for DecisionMakers;

"Panel Members or Members o f IAASTD" are countries that are Members o f the Cosponsoring
Agencies.

"Session of the Bureau" refers to meetings of the elected governmental andnon-governmental
members of the IAASTDBureau-elected membersmay be accompanied by a representative of
their organization for non-technicalissues, e.g., budget.

"Plenary Session" refers to meetings of the Member countries and observers.



 11. Preparation and Peer review Process

The preparation and peer review process shouldtake place in six stages:
    0    Preparation of the first-order draft report;
    0    Government and expert (peer) review of the first-order draft report;
    0    Preparation o fthe second-order draft report;
    0    Government/expert review of the second-order draft report;
    0    Preparation of the final report; and
    0    Government review and approval o f the Summaries for Decision Makers

At least six weeks should be allowed for review by experts and governments. All written expert
and government review comments will be made available to reviewers on request duringthe
reviewprocess and will beretainedinan open archive ina location determinedbythe IAASTD
Bureau on completion of the Report for a period of at least five years.


                                                95

The purpose of the review process i s to ensure that the IAASTDReport presents a
comprehensive, objective and balancedview of bothlocal and institutionalknowledge. The
content o f the authored chapters i s the responsibility of the leadauthors. After acceptanceby the
Panel, only grammatical and or minor editorial changes can be madeprior to publication. To
ensure proper preparation andreview, the following steps shouldbe taken:

(a) Compilation o f governmental and non-governmental Focal Points andnominees for
    Coordinating LeadAuthors, LeadAuthors, ContributingAuthors, Expert Reviewers, Review
    Editors and
(b) Selectionof CoordinatingLeadAuthors and LeadAuthors
(c) Preparation o f draft Report
(d) Review
             Firstdraft by governments and experts
             Seconddraft by governments and experts
(e) Preparation of final draft Report
(f) Acceptance o fReport at a sessionofthe Plenary

The IAASTDReport shallbe made available to governments and other participating
organizations by the Secretariat at least six weeks inadvance of the Plenary for final
acceptance/adoption/approvaland, to the extent possible, the Summaries for Decision Makers for
the Global Assessment and Subglobal Assessmentswill be distributedinall official UN
languages.

12. Compilation of Nominees for Authors, Reviewersand ReviewEditors

The Secretariat will request that all governments andparticipatingorganizations identify
appropriate experts with local and institutionalknowledge for eachChapter inthe Report to act as
Coordinating LeadAuthors, LeadAuthors, Contributing Authors, Expertreviewers or Review
Editors. To facilitate the identification o f experts and peer review by governments and non-
governmental stakeholders, governments and non-governmental stakeholders should designate
Focal Points. Bureaumembers should ensure, where necessary, balanced representation o f
experts and reviewersfrom developed countries, developingcountries, and countries with
economies intransition. These recommendations shall be maintainedby the Secretariat andbe
available to all Members o f the Panel. The tasks andresponsibilities of CoordinatingLead
Authors, LeadAuthors, LeadAuthors, Contributing Authors, Expert Reviewers, Review Editors
and focal points ingovernment and participatingorganizations are outlined inAnnex 1.

13. Selection of Authors andReview Editors

The Bureau shall select Coordinating Lead Authors, Lead Authors and Review Editors for each
chapter from those experts nominatedby governments and participating organizations. The
composition of the group shall reflect the needto aim for a range of views, expertise, gender and
geographical representation, taking into account local and institutional knowledge. The
CoordinatingLeadAuthors and LeadAuthors may enlist other experts as Contributing Authors to
assist intheir work.

At the earliest opportunity, the Secretariat shall informthe Panel andparticipating organizations
of the Coordinating LeadAuthors and LeadAuthors responsible for each chapter.

14. Preparation of Draft Report


                                                 96

Coordinating Lead Authors and LeadAuthors should undertake preparationo f the first draft o f
the Report. Local and institutionalknowledgeshouldbeusedas appropriate. Expertswho wishto
contribute local and institutional knowledge for consideration inthe first draft should submit it
directly to the LeadAuthors. Contributionsof institutional knowledge shouldbe supported as far
as possible with references from thepeer reviewedand internationally available literature,
includingselectednon-peer review manuscripts that can be made available for review according
to Annex 2. Institutionalknowledge that i s notpublishedmay only be included ifits inclusion i s
fully justifiedinthe context ofthe IAASTDprocess. Clear indicationso fhow to access the latter
should be included.

15. Review
Three general principles should govern the reviewprocess o f the Report, which should include
the most recent scientific, technical and social findings as comprehensively as possible:
(a) Circulation should aim to involve as many experts as possible, with particular attention to
    independent experts (not involved inthe preparation of the chapter) from developed
    countries, developingcountries, and countries with economies intransition;
(b) The reviewshouldbeobjective, open andtransparent; and
(c) Appropriate experts shouldreviewlocal and institutionalknowledge.

Firstand SecondDrafts: The drafts should becirculatedto all reviewerssubmittedby
governments and other participatingorganizations, as well as those suggestedby the Bureau,
noting the need for a range o f views, expertise, and geographical representation. Drafts shouldbe
sent to eachgovernment andparticipating organization Focal Point.

Coordinating LeadAuthors, inconsultation with the ReviewEditors and the Secretariat, may
supplementthe draft revisionsprocesswith awider meetingofprincipal LeadAuthors and expert
reviewers, iftime and fundingpermit, inorder to pay special attention to particular points where
major differences exist.

Expertreviewersshouldprovide comments to the appropriate LeadAuthors with a copy to the
government or participatingorganization Focal Point. Each government and each participating
organization should send one integrated set of comments.

16. Preparation of final draft
The Coordinating LeadAuthors and LeadAuthors inconsultationwith the ReviewEditors
should prepare the final draft Report. Government and expert comments shouldbe consideredin
this final draft. Ifnecessary, andiftime and finances permit, awider meetingwithCoordinating
LeadAuthors and LeadAuthors and expert and government reviewersmay be heldinorder to
attend to particular areas where there are major scientific differences. It i s important that the
Report describe different (possibly controversial) scientific, technical, and socio-economic views
on a subject, particularly ifthey are relevant to apolicy debate. The final draft should credit all
CoordinatingLeadAuthors, LeadAuthors, Contributing Authors, reviewers and Review Editors
byname and affiliation at the end of the Report text.

17. Approval and acceptanceof Summaries for Decision Makers
Summary sections ofthe Report acceptedbythe Panel will comprise the Global and Sub-global
Summariesfor DecisionMakers. Itshouldbe subject to simultaneous review byboth experts and
governments and to a final line-by-line approvalby a session o f the Plenary. The Global and
Subglobal Summaries for Decision Makers should be prepared concurrently with the main
Report.



                                               97

Approval of the Summariesfor Decision Makers signifies that they are consistent with the factual
material contained inthe Report. Coordinating LeadAuthors may be asked to provide technical
assistance inensuring the documents are consistent. The Summaries for Decision Makers should
be formally andprominentlydescribed as: "Report o fthe InternationalAssessment on
Agricultural Scienceand Technology for Development."



Annex 1: Tasksand responsibilitiesfor IAASTDLeadAuthors, CoordinatingLead
Authors,ContributingAuthors, ExpertReviewers andReview EditorsandFocalPoints

1.        Lead Authors
Function:
Responsible for the production of designated sections o f the global and subglobal assessments
based on the best scientific and technical information available.
Comment:
LeadAuthors will typically work ingroups that have the responsibility for ensuring that the
various components of their section are broughttogether on time, are o f uniformly highquality,
and conform to any overall standardso f style set for the document as a whole.

The task o f LeadAuthors i s a demanding one and inrecognition o f this, the names of Lead
Authors will appearprominently inthe final Report. Duringthe final stages o f Report
preparation, when the workload i s oftenheavy and Lead Authors are heavily dependent upon
eachother to read and edit material, and to agreeto changespromptly, it is essential that the work
shouldbe accorded the highest priority.

The essence o f the LeadAuthors' task i s the synthesis of relevant material. LeadAuthors, in
conjunction with Review Editors, are also requiredto take into account expert and government
review comments. LeadAuthors musthave the proven ability to develop text that i s scientifically
and technically sound and that represents, to the extent that this i s possible, contributions by a
wide variety o f experts. The ability to complete work by deadlines i s critical.

LeadAuthors are requiredto record inthe Report views that cannot be reconciled with a
consensusview but that are nonethelessscientifically or technically valid. LeadAuthors may
convene meetings with ContributingAuthors, as appropriate, inthe preparations o f their section
or to discuss expert or government review comments, subject to budget availability. The names of
all LeadAuthors will be acknowledged inthe Report.

2.        Coordinating LeadAuthors
Function:
Overall responsibility for a chapter.
Comment:
Coordinating LeadAuthors will function as LeadAuthors and ensure that the Chapter o f the
Report for which they areresponsible i s completedto a highstandard ina timely manner and in
conformance with style requirements. Coordinating Lead Authors will play a leadingrole in
ensuring the coordination of crosscutting scientific andtechnical issues acrossdifferent chapters
so the report is complete, coherent and reflects the latest information available. It i s essential that
Coordinating LeadAuthors have organizational skills as well as the skills andresourcesrequired
o f LeadAuthors. The names o f Coordinating LeadAuthors will be acknowledged inthe Report.

3.        Contributing Authors
Function:


                                               98

Prepare technical informationinthe form of text, graphs, or data for assimilationby Lead
Authors.
Comment:
Inputfrom awiderange ofcontributors will becritical to the success o fthe Report. Contributions
should be supported with referencesfrom the peer reviewedand internationally available
literature ifpossible. For materialthat does not fit into these categories, copies must be provided
to the Secretariat with clear instructions onhow to access the material. Institutional knowledge
will be supplemented as appropriate with localknowledge.

4.        Reviewers
Function:
To comment on the accuracy, balance and completeness ofthe scientific and technical content.
Comment:
Reviewers for local and institutional knowledge will comment according to their ownknowledge
and experience.

5.        Review Editors
Function:
Will assist inidentifying reviewers, ensurethat all substantive expert and government review
comments are givenappropriate consideration, advise lead authors on how to handle
contentious/controversial issues and ensure genuine controversies are adequately reflectedinthe
text o fthe Report.
Comment:
Inorder to carryoutthesetasks, typically oneortwoReviewEditorswithabroadunderstanding
of the wider scientific and technical issues will be required. Although responsibility for the final
text remains with the LeadAuthors, Review Editors will needto ensure that where significant
differences o f opinion remain, such differences are described inan annex to the Report.

6.        Government and ParticipatingOrganization Focal Points
Function:
To nominate experts as requiredto prepare andreviewthe global and sub-global assessment
reports and to provide integrated comments on the accuracy, balance, and completeness o f the
scientific andor technical content.
Comment:
Government review will typically be carried out within andbetween a number o f Departments
and Ministries often with assistance o f the academic community. For administrative convenience,
each government andparticipatingorganization should designate one Focal Point for all
Assessment activities, provide full information on contact coordinates for this personto the
Assessment Secretariat and notify the Secretariat o f any changes inthis information. The Focal
Point should liaise with the Assessment Secretariat regarding the logistics o f the review process.



Annex 2: Proceduresfor usingnon-publishedhon-peerreviewedsourcesinthe Assessment
Report

1.Responsibilities of Coordinating, Lead and Contributing Authors
Authors who wish to include information from a non-publishednon-peer reviewed source are
requestedto:
a.        Critically assess any source. Each chapter team should reviewthe quality o f the material
and the validity o f the source.



                                              99

b.       Sendone copy of eachunpublishedor non-refereed source to the CoordinatingLead
Authors, including the following information:
         Title
         Author(s)
         English-language executive summary or abstract, if sourcenot writteninEnglish
         Names and contact information for 1to 2 people who canbe contacted for more
information about the source.
2. Responsibilities of Review Editors: The Review Editorswill ensure that these sources are
selected and usedina consistent manner across the Report.
3. Responsibilities of theAssessment Secretariat: The Secretariatwill store the complete sets o f
indexed, non-published sourcesand sendcopies to reviewers who request them.
4. Treatment in Report: The reference sectionsofthe Report will containboth sourcesthat have
beenpeer reviewed and those that have not beenpeer reviewed.Ifthe source was not peer
reviewed, a note will indicate that this i s the case andwill provide details on how to access the
material.




                                                 100



MAP SECTION


