Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1773 
Project Name 
International Assessment of Agricultural Science and Technology 
for Development (IAASTD) Project 
Region 
Global 
Sector 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P090963 
GEF Grant Recipient 
UNEP 
Implementing Agency 
UNEP 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[] B   [ X ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 19, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 22, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
October 11, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Global Significance of the Agricultural Sector
.
Today, access to sufficient, safe and nutritious 
food is the primary problem for nearly 800 million chronically undernourished people, the vast 
majority of whom live in rural areas in developing countries. In addition, the GDP of many 
developing countries, especially in Africa, is highly dependent on the agricultural sector. As the 
global population increases to 8-10 billion and as food preferences in the developing world 
change with rapid urbanization and increased per capita income, the demand for food is 
projected to double within the next 25-50 years,1 primarily in developing countries. The majority 
of the world’s people depend on agriculture, directly or indirectly, for their livelihoods. Hence, 
the global community confronts the enormous task of ensuring nutritional security and enhancing 
rural livelihoods while reversing environmental degradation, redressing social and gender 
inequity, and ensuring human health and well-being. 
 
Agricultural intensification has the capacity to enormously improve and increase productivity, 
however, it can also result in severe environmental consequences at the same time. Some 
breeding techniques and adoption of high-yielding varieties can lead to erosion of genetic 
resources; changes in land cover can result in soil erosion, and consequently the loss of essential 
nutrients and decreased water-holding capacity; pesticides may kill natural predators and 
beneficial insects; fertilizer and pesticide applications can contaminate surface and ground water; 
and intensification can result in increased greenhouse gas emissions, such as methane and nitrous 
oxide, into the atmosphere, with significant implications for the earth’s climate. In agricultural 
ecosystems, trace elements and organic matter may be lost, leading to an inexorable decline in 
soil quality unless environmentally sound agricultural practices are mainstreamed into the 
productive landscape. 
 
Lost, eroded and/or contaminated resources may complicate meeting the projected increase in 
demand for agricultural products in some countries during the coming decades, but in many 
1
UN FAO. Food for All. Rome, 1996. 
Page  2
developing countries, sub-optimal inputs remain a primary production constraint and hence 
nutrient overloading is not a problem. In these countries, fertilizer responsive crop varieties and 
improved methodologies are needed to effectively prevent soil mining and nutrient depletion.  
 
There are however, some other critical environmental and social factors facing the developing 
world that may directly impede efforts to meet the projected demand for agricultural products. 
These include less water available for crops due to an increase in use by other sectors; less arable 
land due to urbanization and unsustainable agricultural practices; less labor due to HIV/AIDS 
and rural to urban migration; increased levels of acid deposition and tropospheric ozone; and a 
changing climate with warmer temperatures, increasing variability of precipitation and more 
extreme events.  
 
To ensure the sustainability of the natural resource foundation and biodiversity on which 
agricultural production (crop, livestock, fishery, forest, fiber and biomass) and hence, rural 
livelihoods and nutritional security depend, will require that decision makers better understand 
the economic, environmental, ethical and social considerations surrounding agricultural 
knowledge science and technology (KST) and related policy. For example, some key 
intermediary/intervening factors in agricultural production systems 
–
markets, social norms and 
customs (gender and ethnicity) – often determine resource ownership and control, and 
consequently nutritional security.  
 
The overall challenge is a better understanding by those who make decisions on agricultural, 
environmental and macroeconomic policy, at both the national and international levels, in both 
developed and developing countries, of agricultural practices that are sustainable, economically 
viable and environmentally positive. This better understanding can result in policies and 
institutional arrangements that facilitate, rather than obstruct, the implementation of sustainable 
agriculture practices and advances in science and technology that contribute to more sustainable 
practices, and improve the overall performance of the agricultural sector. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The Panel of participating governments, taking into account the views of the co-sponsoring 
agencies (World Bank, FAO, WHO, UNEP, UNESCO, UNDP and GEF) and other stakeholders 
(private sector, NGOs, producers, consumers, international organizations, and the scientific 
community) at the IAASTD Intergovernmental Plenary held in Nairobi from 30 August to 3 
September 2004, agreed on the objectives, goals, scope, key questions, design, preparation and 
peer-review processes, outputs, timetable, budget and governance structure of the IAASTD.  The 
Bureau to the Panel includes 30 representatives from national governments, 22 representatives 
from civil society (six NGOs, six producer groups, four consumer groups, six private sector 
entities) and eight from international organizations. Members of the Bureau are available on file.  
 
Development objective
:
The proposed project is to improve access to agricultural KST that will 
promote and facilitate sustainable agricultural practices with the aim to improve nutritional 
security, enhance rural livelihoods while reversing environmental degradation, redressing social 
and gender inequity, and ensuring human health and well-being.   
 
Page  3
Global Environment Objective
:
Application of the knowledge generated through the IAASTD 
should provide significant local, national, regional and global environmental benefits. Global 
environmental objectives, include reducing the overall rate of natural resource loss and land 
degradation, enhancing landscape biodiversity both in areas of land use and in protected areas, 
reducing the rate of soil, runoff and nutrient losses, diminishing the contamination and 
eutrophication of fresh waters and soils, reducing the rate of greenhouse gas emissions, and 
increasing the amount of carbon fixed in agricultural systems.  This would be achieved if the 
knowledge generated by the IAASTD is used to design and implement appropriate policies, 
regulations and incentive structures to support integrated natural resource and agricultural 
management, and to stimulate investments to address local, national, and global environmental 
issues within the context of sustainable development.   The IAASTD will also strengthen the 
capacity of institutions to design and implement integrated management approaches, and provide 
information highly relevant to the work plans of the Multilateral Agreements.  Sustainable 
agricultural practices will directly, and through improved natural resource management, 
contribute to improving p
eople’s livelihoods, food security and health. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank and GEF Involvement 
 
Recognizing the significant role of agriculture in the economies of developing countries, 
between 2001 and mid-2002, the World Bank held a number of meetings with the leaders in the 
private sector and in civil society to discuss some of the prominent issues in agricultural science 
and technology. Participants shared their views on how to advance the role of agricultural 
science and technology in meeting future challenges to nutritional security and agricultural 
productivity in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner. Some suggested that a 
comprehensive, multidisciplinary assessment of issues critical to policy formulation would have 
great value for decision makers confronting conflicting views on a number of issues concerning 
agricultural science and technology, practices, policies and institutional effectiveness. 
 
Recognizing how important such an international assessment could be to achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals of eradicating extreme hunger and poverty and ensuring 
environmental sustainability, in August 2002, FAO and the World Bank announced at the World 
Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in Johannesburg a global consultative process on 
a
proposed international assessment of the role of agricultural knowledge science and technology 
in reducing hunger, improving rural livelihoods and stimulating environmentally sustainable 
economic growth over the coming decades. 
 
Participating in the IAASTD is fully compatible with the overall mission of the World Bank, i.e., 
fighting poverty and hunger, the role of the World Bank as an Implementing Agency (IA) in the 
GEF, as the major contributor to the CGIAR, and as a major lender for agricultural S&T.  It is 
also fully consistent with the World Bank Rural Development strategy and with the World Bank 
Environment strategy.  As the IA, the Bank brings a unique strength to the Project by virtue of 
the trust it developed among stakeholders during the consultative process and by its convening 
power and ability to engage policymakers and key decision makers in developing countries. The 
Bank also brings its role as an invaluable resource for promoting investment opportunities in 
agricultural science and technology and mobilizing private sector, bilateral, multilateral, and 
other government and non-government sector resources in efforts that are consistent with GEF 
Page  4
objectives and national sustainable development strategies. This Project will enhance the 
capacity of the World Bank to assist its member countries to better conserve and sustainably use 
their biological diversity, reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases, manage their land, 
ecosystems and shared water bodies more sustainably.   
 
The GEF intervention will provide the knowledge base for implementing the agricultural 
dimension of MDG 7 on ensuring environmental sustainability, especially for target number 1 to 
integrate the principles of environmental sustainability into country policies and programmes and 
reverse the loss of environmental resources.  The IAASTD will also provide invaluable 
information with respect to the hunger and poverty MDGs and the agricultural element of the 
thematic cluster of issues for the multi-year programme of work of the Commission on 
Sustainable Development (CSD) for 2008/2009. In addition, the findings of the IAASTD will 
provide invaluable information for 12 GEF Operational Programs. The GEF intervention will 
also support the implementation of agricultural KST relevant aspects of the Multilateral 
Environmental Agreements such as the United Nations Convention on Biodiversity (CBD), 
United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (CCD) and United Nations Framework 
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and will help mainstream environmental 
considerations in agriculture. 
 
4. Description 
 
The project objectives would be achieved by supporting activities associated with the following 
five components (component 1 has already been completed using co-financing).  
 
Component 1 
–
Development of a Conceptual Framework and annotated outlines for the 
global and sub-global assessments 
(US$ 0.600 million: 5.71 percent of total project cost).
 
Activities include: (i) Nomination and selection of Design Team members; (ii) Global and sub-
global Design Team meetings;  (iii) Integrated design team meeting;  (iv) Design of the 
Conceptual Framework; and  (v) Approval of the Conceptual Framework and annotated outlines 
by Bureau. 
 
Component 2–Global Assessment 
(US $1.442 million, of which US $0.590 million is from 
GEF financing, 13.72 percent of total project cost)
.
Activities include: (i) Nomination and 
selection of authors;  (ii) Preparation of chapters and Summary for Decision-Makers;  (iii) Two-
step peer review by experts and governments; and  (iv) Accepted and approved by governments. 
 
The global assessment will include gender in all four sections: (i) Context and Concepts; (ii) 
Historical and Current Perspectives; (iii) Plausible Futures; and (iv) Options for Making AKST 
Work Better to Achieve the Development and Sustainability Goals. 
 
Component 3–Five Sub-global Assessments 
(US $3.151 million, of which US $1.425 million 
is from GEF financing, 29.98 percent of total project cost). Activities include:
 
(i) Nomination 
and selection of authors; (ii) Preparation of chapters and Summaries for Decision-Makers; (iii) 
Two-step peer review by experts and governments; and (iv) Accepted and approved by 
governments. 
 
Page  5
The sub-global assessments will use the same Conceptual Framework and basic section structure 
as the global assessment, but will focus on issues of highest priority for each region. 
 
Component 4
–Outreach and Communications 
(US $1.474 million, of which US $0.985 
million is from GEF financing, 14.02 percent of total project cost). Activities include:
 
(i) 
Development of a web site, which will include the minutes/decisions of Bureau and Plenary 
meetings, annotated outlines of the global and sub-global assessments, the Conceptual 
Framework, power-point presentations, list of authors and review editors, schedule of author, 
Bureau and Plenary meetings; draft reports for expert and government peer-review; (ii) 
Development of outreach and communications strategy by Bureau and Secretariat; (iii) Targeted 
outreach to key user groups using media, workshops and conferences; (iv) Publication and 
distribution of global and sub-global assessment reports;  (v) Availability of global and sub-
global assessment reports on web site (
www.agassessment.org
); and (vi) Monitoring of uptake of 
IAASTD products. 
 
Component 5–Project Management and Administration 
(US $3.843 million, of which none 
is from GEF financing, 36.57 percent of total project cost). Activities include:
 
(i) Selection of 
Secretariat staff; (ii) Selection of government and civil society Bureau members; (iii) Selection 
of IAASTD Co-chairs; (iv) Management of budget; (v) Organization of author meetings; (vi) 
Management of peer-review process; (vii) Organization of meetings of Panel of Participating 
Governments and Bureau; and (viii) Organizing the editing and printing of the global and sub-
global assessment reports. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: (US$million)
Global Environment Facility 
3.000 
Other co-financiers 
7.510 
 Total 
10.510 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Members of the distributed Secretariat will coordinate/oversee one or more of the global and 
sub-global assessments. The World Bank will have overall responsibility for the global 
assessment, working closely with the other cosponsoring agencies in their area of expertise, and 
the sub-global assessments in East and South Asia and the Pacific and North America and 
Europe; UNEP will oversee the sub-global assessment for Sub-Saharan Africa; FAO will oversee 
Central and West Asia and North Africa; and UNESCO will be responsible for Latin America 
and the Caribbean.   Each sub-global assessment, except for North America and Europe, will be 
managed by a regional institute: the World Fish Center for East and South Asia and the Pacific; 
the African Center for Technology and Science for Sub-Saharan Africa; the Inter-American 
Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture for Latin America and the Caribbean; and the 
International Center for Agricultural Research on Dry Areas (ICARDA) for Central and West 
Asia and North Africa. 
 
The Panel of participating governments will meet in plenary to accept the global and sub-global 
assessments and approve the Summaries for Decision Makers and the Synthesis Report. The 
Page  6
multi-stakeholder Bureau will select the design teams, chairs, authors and review editors for the 
assessment and ensure a balance of disciplines, views, regional representation and gender.  The 
Bureau also has a fundraising and financial sub-committee with oversight responsibilities for the 
budget, and a communications and outreach sub-committee to assist the secretariat develop and 
implement an appropriate outreach and communications strategy.  Roles and responsibilities of 
all components of the IAASTD management structure have been developed in detail - Principles 
and Procedures governing the IAASTD, which are modeled on those used by IPCC and MA, 
were approved by the Bureau in December 2004. The Secretariat liaises with governments, civil 
society organizations and the Bureau to ensure project implementation.   
 
The World Bank will act as the GEF Implementing Agency (IA) responsible for coordination 
with GEF Secretariat, and will manage the multi-donor trust fund. UNEP will be the executing 
agency for the GEF funds as well as the World Bank’s DGF grant under the terms of a legal 
agreement between the World Bank and UNEP and at an agreed administration cost  The GEF 
resources will be used to provide financial support to experts approved by the Bureau from 
developing countries to participate in lead author meetings; honoraria for a limited number of 
developing country experts using criteria established by the Bureau; Bureau-selected regional 
institutes to manage the preparation and peer-review of the sub-global assessments; Bureau and 
Plenary meetings; partial salary for the developing country co-chair; and publication and 
translation costs of the final report.  All expenses are consistent with the Bureau decisions taken 
in Montpellier, France in May, 2005.  
 
Implementing and executing agencies will be involved in all aspects of the assessment and 
ensure high quality technical implementation; however, UNEP will pay particular attention to the 
environmental dimensions, while FAO will pay particular attention to the agricultural 
dimensions of the IAASTD.  Collaboration between the IA and the EAs (UNDP, UNEP, FAO 
and UNESCO) will be ensured through weekly teleconferences, and regular meetings associated 
with meetings of the design teams, authors and Bureau. Budget analysts within the Secretariat 
will work together to ensure financial implementation is transparent and responsible.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Sustainability has been optimized by ensuring the full range of stakeholders have ownership in 
the IAASTD process and findings through their involvement in the Bureau and in the design, 
preparation and peer-review of the reports.  The multistakeholder Bureau is also responsible for 
overseeing the outreach and communications strategy to ensure wide dissemination and use of 
the findings. 
 
The World Bank, UNEP, FAO and UNESCO have committed financial resources, both cash and 
in-kind secretariat support.  In addition, a number of governments have already committed funds 
to a multi-donor trust fund managed by the World Bank (including Australia, Canada, European 
Commission, France, Ireland, Switzerland, UK and USA), and Finland has provided funds 
towards the staff costs of the Secretariat.  OECD governments, organizations and institutions will 
be responsible for supporting participation of developed country nationals.
 
Page  7
The IAASTD will build sub-global assessment capacities to undertake integrated scientific 
assessments of agricultural KST, and build ownership to implement action based upon the 
evidence in the assessments.  They will also help build synergy between regions in the 
development of an internally consistent framework and will promote and extend linkages and 
partnerships that will enhance sustainable development.  
 
GEF resources are critical to supporting the environmental aspects of the initiative, and in 
conjunction with the multi-donor trust fund will be used, among other things, to support 
developing country participation and the regional institutes. GEF support for the participation of 
specialists from developing countries and countries with transitioning economies will enhance 
the sub-global, national and local capacity-building components of the Project as specialists 
come together to share and assess knowledge and learn how to conduct effective scientific 
assessments.    
 
Institutional partners in each region of the world will assist with executing the sub-global 
assessments and engaging local scientists in project implementation. These insititutions include 
the Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture (IICA) in San Jose, Costa Rica; the 
African Center for Technology Studies (ACTS) in Nairobi, Kenya; ICARDA in Syria; and the 
World Fish Center in Malaysia. The involvement of these institutions will ensure the inclusion 
and support of regional and local capacity and ground the IAASTD in regional and local 
concerns.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
While a number of global assessments of sub-sectors related to agriculture are available and form 
part of the baseline of this project, no assessment of agricultural KST at global and sub-global 
levels has previously been attempted that fully integrates environmental and social concerns with 
agricultural productivity, livelihoods and human health issues.  All previous assessments have 
limitations for the purpose of this project, which is an integrated scientific assessment of the role 
of agricultural KST in development.  Earlier assessments looked at technologies for specific 
purposes in agriculture (e.g., soil conservation 
–
WOCAT framework), and hence were highly 
selective, or they surveyed specific environmental assets with little, if any, connection to 
development goals.   
 
Frameworks and approaches commonly employed in earlier assessments, which have been 
reviewed for the IAASTD, include quantitative frameworks such as in Global Forum for 
Agricultural research (GFAR) and qualitative as in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change (IPCC) reports and the MA. The most relevant framework for the IAASTD is the MA, 
which linked drivers to ecosystem services to human well being. It is not surprising that there are 
no standardized frameworks, because each earlier assessment addressed a different range of 
issues. Most of the findings from these assessments will provide useful information for some 
elements of the IAASTD even though the findings cannot be integrated to address the range of 
questions being addressed in the IAASTD. In most cases, the scope of the assessments has been 
limited, i.e., they have not been multi-thematic or multi-temporal, and have not addressed the 
policy, institutional and research issues proposed for IAASTD.  Furthermore, in most cases they 
are not adequately linked with policy and decision-making processes, and none have a 
Page  8
governance structure or outreach and communications strategy that involves the full range of 
stakeholders.   
 
The governance structure of the IAASTD is a hybrid version of the IPCC, which is 
intergovernmental, and the MA, which is non-governmental.  The IAASTD is intergovernmental 
with a multi-stakeholder Bureau comprising of 30 government representatives and 30 
representatives from civil society.  This governance structure should ensure ownership of the 
process and findings by the full range of stakeholders.  Based on experiences of the international 
ozone assessments, the Global Biodiversity Assessment (GBA), the IPCC and the MA, the 
following list of characteristics have been found to be crucial for previous successful 
assessments and will, be employed by the IAASTD: 
¾
Involve the best experts from all stakeholder groups in their individual capacity in the design, 
preparation and peer-review;  
¾
Conduct according to an open, transparent, representative and legitimate process; 
¾
Evidence-based, not based on value systems; 
¾
Policy relevant, not policy prescriptive, presenting options not recommendations; 
¾
Encompass risk assessment, management and communication; 
¾
Technically accurate; 
¾
Assess local, regional and global perspectives as appropriate; 
¾
Present different views, with quantification of uncertainties, where possible; and 
¾
Identify the key scientific uncertainties and areas where research could be focused. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation):   
 
The project supports the sharing and application of agricultural science and technology to 
improve the use of sustainable and environmentally-friendly agricultural practices. It is a 
technical assistance operation with no negative environmental impacts. The project has been 
therefore classified as category C. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [] 
[x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[x] 
10. Contact point 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  9
Robert T. Watson 
Chief Scientist and Senior Advisor 
Tel: (202) 473-6965 
Fax: (202) 
E-mail: RWatson@worldbank.org 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
