                                                                                      50210
                              ILGRP PROJECT PAPER


                                      DATA SHEET

Date: August 20,2009                           Task Team Leader: Peter D. Ellis
Country: Indonesia                             Sector ManageriDirector: Sonia Hammam
Project Name: Initiatives for Local            Country Director: Joachim von Amsberg
Governance Reform Project                      Environmental category: B (Partial


Responsible agency: Ministry o f Home Affairs, Dir. General o f Regional Autonomy




Current closing date: September 30,2009
Revised closing date: September 30,201 1
P



Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved        3-
RVP approved          -
                               4:

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?      -Yes - X N o
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                -Yes - N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                -Yes - X N o
Revised project development objective/outcomes:

                           f
The development objective o the Project is to pilot support to district (labupaten)
governments in improving transparency, accountability and public participatory
practices and in undertaking reforms in j n a n c i a l management and procurement


Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o

                         RevisedFinanci ;Plan (US$m.)
                   Source                  Local                 Foreign          Total
BORROWER                                    0.18                  0.00            0.18
IBRD                                       13.01                  1.49            14.50
IDA                                        13.53                  1.47            15.00
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR                 10.80                  1.20            12.00
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(DFID)
L O C A L GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT) OF      4.62                   0.00            4.62
BORROWING COUNTRY
Total
                                     ILGRP PROJECT PAPER


Introductory Statement

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Indonesia Initiatives for Local Governance Reform Project,
Loadcredit No. 4790-IND/4078-IND and Grant (TF55913-IND) and any accompanying
amendments to the Project's legal documents. The proposed changes, following a
detailed Mid-Term Review, are intended to refocus and put the Project back on track, as
it has been rated Moderately Unsatisfactory on Performance since December 2006.
Slow, but eventually strong consensus building with the Government to restructure the
Project enabled the MTR only to take place in the final year o f the Project.
2.      The Borrower's proposed changes include:* (i)       reducing the planned number o f
participating districts; (ii)
                            completing the final round o f reforms, simplify the reporting o f
reform requirements, and discontinue reform requirements that will be difficult to achieve
within the next two years; (iii)  providing additional incentives to performing Districts;
(iv) improving implementation support; and (v) reallocating the undisbursed grant
amounts to subprojects. This project paper also proposes to extend the closing date o f the
Loan and Credit by 24 months to September 20 11, and the DFID Grant by 15 months to
December 2010. These changes are expected to enable the Project to focus on the
existing participating Districts and support them in achieving the development objectives
in the next two years.
3.      Pro-activity by the Government o f Indonesia (GOI) has created confidence that
the performance o f the Project will improve in the coming months, as shown in the
improvements identified during the MTR. We are confident that the proposed
restructuring will allow the Project to improve i t s performance over the coming months,
thereby allowing us to upgrade it to Satisfactory.

Background and Reasons for Restructuring

4.    The Project was approved by the Bank's Board o f Directors on June 9, 2005 and
became effective on April 7,2006. The original closing date i s September 30,2009.
5.      Project Development Objective. As stated in the Project Appraisal Document:
"The development objective o the Project is to pilot support to district (kabupaten)
                                f
governments in improving transparency, accountability and public participatory
practices and in undertaking reforms in financial management and procurement. " The
Project provides incremental poverty-targeted investment funds to kabupatens that
complete a predefined set o f the minimum reforms to finance priority rural infrastructure,
as identified in their Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan (PRSAP). The Project
brings cross-cutting reform elements together, including more pro-poor budget
allocations, to demonstrate and test reform implementation at the District level.




 Through Letter fiom Ministry o f Finance dated M a y 27, 2009, requesting the loan extension, revision o f
category allocation under the loan and grant agreement, and project restructuring.

                                                     1
                               ILGRP PROJECT PAPER

6.     Project Design and Scope. The project has three components.
       a.     Component A (Local Governance Reforms) supports Local Governments
       (LGs) to implement reforms in the Local Governance Reform Framework
       (LGRF), which has three areas: (i)   basic democratization, including transparency
       and participation in planning and budgeting processes; (ii) financial management;
               i i procurement. The LGRF has four phases o f requirements: Entry to
       and ( i )
       participate in the Project, Pre-Investment to access 1st (initial) investments,
       Year 1 and Year 2 Reforms to access 2nd and 3rd investments. This Component
       i s financed by the local District budget. (see Annex 1. Schematic Summary o f
       Reform Requirements and Investment Phases).
       b.     Component B (Poverty Targeted Investments) provides incremental
       financing for) supporting pro-poor development expenditures in Districts that
       implement LGRF.
       c.      Component C (Implementation Support) finances the facilitation, technical
       assistance and capacity building to District stakeholders to implement
       Component A. Consultants and facilitators are hired to provide the assistance.
       They are based in Jakarta (NMCs, the National Management Consultants), in
       three regions (RMCs, the Regional Management Consultants), and in the Districts
                          -a
       (Kabupaten Facilitator and Kabupaten Engineer). The Project currently has 14
       participating Districts (Batch 1) in nine provinces. In the original design, the
       Project would invite other Districts in the same provinces and select 26 o f them
       (Batch 2) to j o i n the project in early 2007. These Districts would get facilitation
       for reforms for 18 months to be eligible for investment funds, which would be
       provided by the subsequent ILGRP 2.
7.      Project Progress: Past Performance and Implementation Issues. Since i t s start
the Project has made progress towards achieving the development objective (ISR Ratings
in Table 1). Participating LGs faced delays in investments, as subproject proposals were
not verified in a timely manner due to limited facilitatiodtechnical assistancehpport
from the National Project Secretariat (NPS). District facilitators and engineers were not
hired until August 2007. The RMCs were only mobilized in mid April 2009-more than
two years after the procurement process started. Four o f the thirteen positions in the
N M C are s t i l l vacant, and will be dropped as they are not needed following the Project's
restructuring.
8.      As a result o f the lack o f support by the NPS to the Districts in the past, the first
investment funds did not start flowing to the Districts until late 2006. Investment funds
were not fully utilized in 2006, and had to be carried over to 2007 and 2008. As o f
December 2008, o f the allocated US$9.3 million first investment funds, 84.5% were
utilized. Of the second and third investment funds, a total o f US$18.6 million, remain
unused. Finally, the selection o f Batch 2 Districts has not yet started. As a result, the
overall implementation progress has been rated MU.




                                              2
                              ILGRP PROJECT PAPER

              Table 1. ImplementationPerformanceRatings (from ISRs)




9.     Program Management. Meeting the planned targets for reforms and investments
has been impeded by management issues in the NPS, which also affected the Prpject's
financial management, procurement, and disbursement. Under GO1 regulations, the
working unit's (Satker's) term lasts for only one year, and they have to be reappointed
every year. Delays started when the Executing Agency was unable to appoint the
working units (Satker) under NPS o n time, including the procurement and financial
management teams. The result was prolonged delays in processes.
10.     Procurement. Similar problems occurred with the procurement team, who did
not have a knowledgeable member in the field o f consultant procurement. Heace,
selection results were slow and unsatisfactory. The procurement team was unabl?. b-,
recruit consultants on time, particularly the N M C , who were intended to support the NPS
exactly on these management areas.
11.    Financial Management. There are two main issues related to financial
management: (i)    budget processing; and (ii) payments. First, due to delays in
                                                    late
disbursing investment funds, sub-project proposals from the Districts had to be revised
because o f changes in unit costs. Secondly, there was a delay o f payments for
consultants and field facilitators, whose contract renewals were also two-months late.
Weak cash flow management contributed to paor operations o f the NPS, particularly in
supporting the N M C in traveling to the Districts.
12.     Disbursement. The Project has two Special Accounts, with the following status
o f disbursement as o f August 12,2009:
       a. Loan 4790-INDKredit 4078-IND. The total amount disbursed was $14.2
          million (48% o f the total loadcredit), including the front-end fee o f $72,500
          for the loan portion and advance to the Special Account o f $10.9 million. The
          balance o f the Special Account was $5 million. Hence, the actual IDA
          expenditures were $8.9 million (30% o f the total loan and credit).
       b. DFID Grant 55913-IND. The total disbursement was $4.3 million (40.6% o f
          the total grant), including the Special Account balance o f $2.5 million. The
          actual expenditure o f the grant as o f December 2008 was $1.8 million (15% o f
           the grant).
13.    Poverty Targeted Investment. The Project Appraisal Document stated that by
Project closing, a total o f 72 subprojects will be implemented. Currently, the Project has
already implemented 138 subprojects in the 14 participating Districts. During the Project
                                            3
                                ILGRP PROJECT PAPER


implementation, all participating districts have been able to manage more sub-projects
than originally anticipated.
14.    FuZfzZLment o Reform Requirements. Fulfillment o f the reform requirements has
                    f
been slow relatively to the planned schedule. However, significant progress has been
made immediately prior to and during the MTR, which was completed on March 31,
2009.
15.       While these reforms were implemented relatively slowly during the first two
years o f the Project, reform implementation accelerated once the NPS started increasing
i t s technical support to Districts in mid-2008. Since the last Supervision Mission (MTR),
 11 Districts have completed the year 1 reform requirements, and are eligible to access the
second investment funds.
16.    Recent Project Management Progress. An encouragihg recent improvement i s
the appointment o f the NPS team in January 2009. The NPS i s working much more
closely with the N M C on Project management. This has, for example, sped up the
process o f selecting the R M C candidates, which were mobilized during the first week o f
May 2009. The NPS has also hired the new Team Leader for the NMC, starting April 1,
2009.
17.     While it i s likely that the Districts can meet most o f the remaining reform targets
by the Project's current closing date, it i s not feasible to start ne3s',,&vestrnentsy as they
will not be able to complete the subprojects. The Project i s therefore expected to disburse
only $17.8 million by September 2009 (49% o f credit/loan and 28% o f the DFID
grant)-as shown in Figure 1.



        Figure 1. Projected Disbursement to End af Project, September 2009

                              45.0   r---                                           ,   100%

                              40.0                                                      90%

                                                                                        80%
                              35.0
                                                                                        70%
                              30.0
                                                                                        60%
                              25.0
                                                                                        50%
                              20.0
                                                                                        40%
                              15.0
                                                                                        30%
                              10.0                                                      20%
                               5.0                                                      10%

                               0.0                                                      0%
                                     I   IBRD/IDA       1   DFlDGrant   1   Total   i



                                     1     49%          1     28%       j   43%     '




                                                    4
                                 ILGRP PROJECT PAPER



Proposed Changes

18.     The Project Development Objective (PDO) remains unchanged. The PDO as
specified in the Project Appraisal Document remains unchanged. However, the PDO
specified in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) will need to be revised to be
consistent with the PDO stated in the PAD. References to the "Additional Participating
Kabupatens" will have to be removed from the PDO in the DCA.
19.      Reducing the scope o the Project. The Project will be limited to the existing 14
                              f
districts and will not add the 26 new Districts (Batch 2). The reduction in scope will not
affect achieving the PDO. Focusing on the 14 Batch-1 Districts will improve the quality
o f reform implementation, and consequently higher likelihood o f full achievement o f the
development objective. The Project restructuring will only require adjustment in the Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs), as the number o f final Districts will be 14, instead o f 40.
Based o n current performance, it is expected that at least nine Districts will continue to
perform well.
20.     Performing Districts will be rewarded with additional investment funds. The
additional funds will send a strong signal that good performance i s rewarded. It i s
estimated that at least nine performing Districts will receive additional investment funds.
These fun&ze expected to be disbursed starting in mid-2010, and will be additional to
their already allocated third investment funds. The additional investment funds for the
performing Districts will come from: (i)   reallocation from the non-performing Districts'
investment funds; and (ii)     reallocation o f unused portions o f the DFID Grant to
subprojects.
21.                                       f
        Implement the Final Round o Local Governance Reform Framework in
parallel with Poverty Targeted Investment phase. Districts have implemented
comprehensive sets o f reforms in the previous phases. Within the last round o f reforms
there are reforms that are not clearly supported by current national regulations, or are not
valid given current circumstances. Annex 2 provides a detailed description o f the
reforms to be dropped from the last round, along with a rationale. GO1 therefore
proposes that the six reforms listed in Annex 2 be dropped in order to ensure effective
implementation o f the restructured Project.
22.     Even with the six dropped reforms, the Project i s s t i l l implementing significant
reforms. For example, in the area o f Financial Management Reforms, only five o f the
total 12 reform requirements will be dropped. For Procurement Reforms, only one o f the
15 reforms will be dropped.
23.     Once the Districts meet a threshold o f having implemented 50% o f the last round
o f reform requirements, the Project will allow for the remainder o f reforms to be
implemented in parallel with the investment subprojects. In other words, Districts will
become eligible for accessing funds for subprojects once they have implemented 50% o f
their reforms for the last round. Districts will s t i l l be expected to complete the full set o f
reforms.
24.     Technical support by the NMC and RMC will be intensified to participating
Districts. As the number o f Districts will not increase from the current 14 districts, the

                                                5
                                          ILGRP PROJECT PAPER


    RMCs will only need to be established in two regions, instead o f the planned three. The
    N M C i s also required to spend 50% o f their time in the field to help cover the 14
    Districts. Each region will have specialists in governance, financial management, and
    procurement, in addition to a senior engineer. In addition, considering the smaller
    number o f participating Districts and the newly recruited RMC, the three vacant positions
    in the N M C will not need to be filled. All work can effectively be covered by the
    available consultants.
    25.     Reallocating the undisbursed parts o the DFID Grant by releasing the grant
                                                   f
    category from "Consultants, Services, Workshops and Training" to be available for
    "Grant for Sub-projects." Currently, 40.6% o f the Grant has been disbursed. GO1
    requests that the Grant reallocate funds Erom Component C to Component B to enable the
    Project to fully utilize the funds for investment sub-projects. The revised amount o f the
    Grant i s lower, since the requirements are less following the reallocation. Table 2 below
    provides the revised amount in each category o f the DFID Grant.




                                          Original Amount of    Revised Amount o f
                                                                                         o
                                                                                        Y of
                                      ,

                                          Grant Allocated (in    Grant Allocated     Expenditures
               Catevory
                                          GB Pounds Sterling)     {in GB Pounds
                                                                                     to be Financed
                                                                     Sterling)
`   (1) Goods, consultant services,
    workshops and training under               6,500,000            4,115,000            100%
    Part C o f the Project
    (2) Grants for Subprojects                     0                2,265,000            100%
                 TOTAL                         6,500,000            6,380,000


    26.      Extending the closing date to give more time to Districts in order to complete
    reforms and implement investment subprojects. GO1 requests that the restructuring be
    accompanied by an extension o f the closing date o f 24 months until September 30,201 1.
    It i s expected that by then Districts will have maintained the previous sets o f reforms,
    with all o f the Loadcredit expected to be utilized, as shown in Figure 2. The
    Loadcredit will be used to finance sub-projects, as well as capacity building and
    technical assistance, subject to approval o f reallocation and loan/credit/grant agreement
    amendments. Table 3 presents the reallocation o f the Loan proceeds, as proposed by
    GO1 letter dated May 27, 2009. GO1 requested an increase in Incremental Operating
    Cost (IOC) in order to enable them to provide more extensive implementation support to
    District Governments.




                                                           6
                                         ILGRP PROJECT PAPER


                Figure 2. Actual and Projected Disbursement for IBRDADA
                                                                                                       -
                                                 IBRD-4790 / IDA-4078

                                                                     P
                                 30.0
                                                                               O
                                                                                         0''-




                                  0.0
                                        2005      2006    2007       2008      2009      2010       2011
                    +Plan               0.2        9.9     19.6      29.4      29.5


                    -
                    --#-Actual
                        0 -Projection
                                        0 .o       0.9     6.7        8.9




                                    Table 3. Loadcredit Categorjr Revision

                                                                               Amount of Loan
                                                                                  Allocated
                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                  Y of
                                                                            {Expressed in Dollars)
                                                                                                              Expenditures
                                                                                                             to be Financed
                                          Original        Revised
                                          Amount          Amount

Grant for Sub-projects                    9,7 15,000      9,670,000                                               100%
IncrementalOperating Costs                     205,000     250,000                                                 100%
                                                     --              --



                                                                            +
Front-end Fee                                                                   72,500             72,500    Amount due
                                                                                                             under Section
                                                                                                             2.04 o f the Loan
                                                                                                             Agreement

Unallocated                                          --              --
           TOTAL                          9,920,000       9,920,000         14,500,000          14,500,000


Analysis

27.     One o f the main changes in the proposed restructuring i s a reduction in the
number o f participating Districts from the planned 40, to the existing 14. The funds
originally intended for the 26 new Districts will be reallocated to Component B to finance
additional sub-projects in good performing Districts. In addition, the investment funds
for the non-performing Districts will be reallocated to the performing Districts. The

                                                                 7
                                ILGRP PROJECT PAPER

types and size o f sub-projects, and the process o f how they are selected, will remain
unchanged. Hence, the restructuring will neither trigger new safeguard policies nor raise
the environmental category o f the Project. The restructuring will also not change the
social aspects as originally appraised, particularly in focusing on poverty reduction
investments and civic participation, which i s enforced via the issuance o f the Local
Regulation on Transparency and Participation that the Project facilitated.
28.     Economic. As more funds will be used for sub-projects, the restructuring will
change the economic aspect o f the Project. However, as in the original design, the
programmatic nature o f the loan would only allow identification o f quantifiable economic
benefits ex-post. Experience from other projects with similar sub-projects has shown that
small-scale District (and sub-District) projects are economically viable. For example, the
I C R for the Java irrigation loan indicates that rehabilitation o f small-scale irrigation
systems generate EIRRs fr6m around 16 to 30%. Currently, the Monitoring and
Evaluation Secretariat o f ILGR has included a study o f detailed economic analysis o f
ILGR sub-projects in their 2009 work plan.
29.      Social. With a smaller number o f Districts, the Project will be able to intensify i t s
facilitation to improve the quality o f reforms, and enable the Districts to be the flagships
of governance reforms, such as enhancing public participation in planning and budgeting
processes, as well as in monitoring the project's implementation.
30.     Institutional. Another c i h g e triggered by the restructuring i s the institutional
arrangements. The present design will only have two RMCs, and the NMCs will have
fewer members, as their main role will be focused on monitoring and supporting the
Rh4Cs. However, all the Government institutions, including the Executing Agency,
remain the same, although the consultant arrangement will be modified as there are fewer
Districts to assist. .
3 1.    Technical. The revised L G W will not introduce new reform requirements. Most
o f the reforms are repeated from the previous rounds to enable Districts to start
internalizing them. In this case, the restructuring will not create new complexity to the
technical aspects o f the Project.

Expected Outcomes

32.     As discussed earlier, the proposed changes will not affect the overall PDO.
However, Key Performance Indicators will need to be adjusted, and following the Bank's
recent changes o f the result monitoring framework, the number o f output indicators will
be reduced, and limited to one per component. Values will be revised to reflect the new
targets, although definitions will be kept as initially proposed (see Annex 2). The
changes o f the results monitoring framework have already been adopted by the
participating Districts since the end o f the Mid-Term Review (March 2009). These
revised results monitoring framework i s currently being promoted (socialized) through
national and regional workshops with the Districts.




                                               8
                              ILGRP PROJECT PAPER



Benefits and Risks

33.     Benefits. One o f the main benefits o f the restructuring i s to have better quality
reforms in performing Districts, which lead to better governance through greater
transparency, more public control and more efficient use o f public resources. The
Districts' performance so far indicates there i s a strong commitment to reforms among
District stakeholders. In addition, there will also be more investment funds for good
performing Districts to implement sub-projects that have been identified in the PRSAP.
Overall, better governance in performing Districts, together with increasing investments
for subprojects will be the major benefits o f the Project.
34.    Risks. One o f the major risks in the Project i s that cash flow management
remains weak to support the activities, particularly field travels. Having the RMCs closer
to the Districts significantly reduces the need to have long trips that require large cash
advances. Technical assistance and sub-project proposal verification will also be
decentralized to the regions.




                                             9
                         PROJECT PAPER


                          Annex 1
           ILGRP Implementation Framework


:
                     3


    PRE-INVESTMENT   {              INVESTMENT PHASE
8
1
         PHASE       I
                     I                   (3 years)     I




                             10
                                           Annex 2
                Revised Requirements of Local Governance Reform Framework
                   Initiatives or Local Governance Reform Project (ILGRP)
A. General Requirements




interest to participate in the program, and a commitment to' (a)
implement specific governance reforms (particioation. transparency,
procurement, financial management) to be undertaken in subsequent
phases as Governance Reform Framework; (b) commit to establish the        dL,


Transparency and Participation, and Poverty Working Groups through
public meeting; (c) undertake participatory poverty analysis and to
institutionalize the poverty reduction strategy and action plan (PRSAP)
into the Kabupatenplanning and budgeting process, and (d) adopt the
Operational Manual, including the participatory planning and
budgeting process, safeguards framework, and apprusal procedures for
sub-projects

Issue a Bupati Decree (SK Bupati) comprising instructions to. (a)               Unchanged
establish kabupaten-levelproject management unit to coordinate
project activities; (b) implement the ILGR governance framework as
agreed, in form, substance and timing; (c) follow the procedures in the
Operational Manual, including the participatory planning and
budgeting process, safeguards framework and appraisal procedures for
sub-projects, and (d) amend the Bawasda's annual general audit
program to include verification that the procurement and FM reform
measures stipulated In the regulationshave actually been implemented




                                                                 11
                                               ILGRP PROJECT PAPER

B. Transparency and ParticipationRequirements (Basic Democratization)


                                             Entry (Requirements to Par    ipale in ILGR)`
Announcement in mass media in each kabupaten regarding the                 Unchanged
summaries o f local budget (APBD) and Report of Local Government
Bupati's accountabrlity speech (ILPPD) in mass media.


Announcement in mass media o f the availability o f the following          Unchanged
documents (locations, requirements, time, and the costs to get it):
budget, Bupati's accountability speech, regional strategic plan
(Propeda, Renstra), annual plan (Repetada, AKU and Strategies and
Priorities), local regulations and spatial plan are available at the
designated location(s).
                                                          Pre-Znvestmenl lase
Establish Transparency and Participation, and Poverty Working              Not Applicable
Groups through public meeting within 3 months of entry.'
                                                                           Rationale. the restructuring result is to drop the plan to
                                                                           recruit Second Batch Kabupaten. However, this was valid
                                                                           for the existina 14particpating districts
Announcement in mass media o f the procedures, costs, and time             Unchanged
needed to get licenses and other services, such as I D cards, birth
certificate, business license and building permits at least once a year,
as well as being permanently posted at designated locations.

This activity will be continued in Investment Phase.
Submission o f draft local regulation (perda) on public access to          Unchanged
information (transparency) to DPRD, which contains assurance and
mechanisms o f public access to:
    Information relatedto discussion on public policies in DPRD;
    Planning documents (Propeda, Renstra, Repetada, and spatial
    plans);
e   Draft and final documents o f all perdas, budget (APBD) and
    budget realization reports;
    Audit reports and their follow-ups, Bupati's accountability reports
    (LPJ), information on procurement policies, procedures and
    practices, on complaint resolution mechanism and results (follow-
    up).
Submission o f draft local regulation (perda) on public access to          Jnchanged
decision-makingprocess (participation) to DPRD, that contains
assurance of:
0   Public participation in drafting and finalization discussion o f any
    perda in DPRD, planning documents and budgeting processes
    (including Propeda, spatial plans, Repetada and APBD);
    Establishment of monitoring and evaluation mechanism of public
    satisfaction on service delivery;
e   Establishment of complaint resolution mechanism (incl. for
    procurement).

Finalize PRSAP and prepare draft local regulation (perda) on               Unchanged
implementing the PRSAP.




' Only for Second Batch Kabupaten
                                                                     12
                                                ILGRP PROJECT PAPER



Implement enhanced public participation in annual planning and            Unchanged
budgetingthat covers:
    Set budget ceiling as an input for dinas and kecamatan planning
   discussions
   Allocate block grant to villagekecamatan level. The information
   o f the allocation and guidelines are disclosed to public.
* Public meetings on dinas programming (at least for 5 poverty
   priorities sectors)
   Public meetings on inter-dinas programming
   Public consultation on final draft of APBD

This activity will be continued in InvestmentPhase.


                                                       Investment Phase /ear I )
  Issue local regulation (perdu) on access to public information        Unchanged
  (transparency)Issue local regulation (pcrda) on acccss to decision-
  making process (participation)
  Issue local regulation (perda) on implementation of the PRSAP.

Implementation o f perda on access to public information                  Unchanged
(transparency) by announcingthe summar) o f planning documents
(Propeda, Renstra, M U , Strategies and Priorities) and l i s t o f all
perdas being issued in the last 1 year in mass media
This activity will be continued in InvestmentPhase Year 2.

Implementation o f perda on access to decisionmaking process              Unchanged
(partiti*cion)by at least discussing 50% o f the perdas being issued in
Year 1 i f investment through intensive public consultations


                                                     lnvestmeni Phase     'ear 2)
Coniinued implementation of perdas on access to public information        Unchanged
(transparenc!) and access to decision making (participation).




                                                                     13
                                              ILGRP PROJECT PAPER

C. Financial Management Requirements


                                           Entry (Requirements to Pan
Issue a Bupati's Decree (SK Bupati)` establishinga Financial
Management Reforms Committee, with members from key stakeholder
departments, and tasked with preparingthe detailed reform
implementation plan and guiding the implementation of reforms.

                                                       Pre-In vesrment base                                           -
Financial Management Reform Committee to prepare detaileL phased          Unchanged
implementation plans for the reform measures. These plans will be
completed and presented to the Bupati and Project Secretariat ~ i t h i 3
                                                                        n
months after the Committee has been established.

Provide an appropriate enabling legal framework for financial                   Unchanged
managemenf reforms, by issuing
0   A local regulation (perda) on the Principles of Regional Finance in
    line with GR 105/2000 and Kepmendagri2912002 covering the
    reform areas to be implemented in Year 1 and 2 of Investment
    below; and
    a Bupati's decree (SK) on the policies, systems and procedures for
    the preparation and execution of the APBD, in accordancewith
    existing central regulations. The SK to also include reform agenda
    proposed in this project for implementation during the investment
    period, as stated below.




                                                    Investment Phase        ~   ear I )                                                -
Implementation of reform actions proposed will be completed in each             implementation o f reform actions proposed will be
investment year in accordance with the SK on FM refonits and the                completed in each investment year in accordance with the
implementation plan prepared by the FM Reforms Committee.                       SK on FM reforms and the implementationplan prepared
                                                                                by the F M Reforms Committee


1) Strengthen orocedures for authorization of budget exoenditure,               1) Unchanged
including
* Authorize local government officials to make mid-year revisions in
    the budget allocation or budget target line items within certain pre-
    determined financial limits, similar to the authorities given to
    central government officials.
    To prevent potential misuse of "contingency budget" (Belanja
    Tidak Tersangka), specify clear criteria for expenditures that shall
    be funded from these funds, and the procedures governing the
    authorization and commitment o f such expenditure.

2) Imorove financial controls over management o f oublic funds, by                                                                 uc
                                                                                2) Imorove financial controls over management o f o &
    Segregate the functions o f the finance department (which shall be          &.&,  by
    responsible for the issuance o f payment instructions (SPM) and the             Unchanged
    regional treasury (kas Daerah).
    Kas Daerah shall not receive, disburse or hold cash, but only                   Unchanged
    process banking transactions.
    Instruct Bagian Keuangan (Finance Dept) to undertake periodic                   Not Applicable
    comprehensive reconciliation o f cash accounts covering accounting
    records, bank statements, official and temporary proof of                       Rationale: Afer 3 years o implemeritation and all the
                                                                                                             f
    collections, and actual cash collection.                                        e8ortput in place, wefound this reform agenda could
                                                                                    not be completed within the time-frame available for
                                                                                    project implementation, especially due to the limifed
                                                                                    capacity o local governmentfinance unit s t a g most
                                                                                              f
                                                                                     f
                                                                                    o whom do not have an accounting background




                                                                  14
                                                  ILGRP PROJECT PAPER



                                                                                3) Strenahen monitoring and accountabilitv of all public
    generated or received. bv ensuring                                          funds generated or received. bv ensuring
    0  All regional government bank accounts can be opened only with                Unchanged
        authority from the Bupati
    0   Heads o f all Work Units shall submit quarterly reports to Finance      *   Not Applicable
        Dept & Bupati declaring the name, location, and balances o f all
        bank accounts in the name of the Work Unit or officials thereof.                                          f
                                                                                     Rationale The submission o this report is seldom
                                                                                     conducted by each work unit, since the role has been
    This activity will be continued in Investment Phase Year 2                       covered by the local bank, where the LG keeps its
                                                                                    jiin-mds. The currentpractice is that it's the local bank
                                                                                      issues the monthlyfinancial report o each work unit,
                                                                                                                           f
                                                                                     and submit it to the Finance Department and Head o     f
                                                                                     District Therefore, this reform is no longer valid

                                                                                Implementationof reform actions proposed will be
                                                                                completed in each investment year in accordancewith the
                                                                                S on FM reforms and the implementation plan prepared
                                                                                 K
                                                                                by the FM Reforms Committee.
    4) Enhance accountability of Work Unit Heads for comoliance with
    regulations                                                                 4) Unchanged
    Require Work Unit Heads to issue annually a Statement of
    Responsibility to Bupati, with copy to Bawasda, affirming compliance
    with applicable rules and regulations, and that all revenue collected and
    donations received are deposited to the authorized Kas Daerah account
                                                                                5) Not Applicable
I

    5) Strengthen procedures and svstems for revenue collections.                                f
                                                                                Rationale. Most o the ILGR participating Districts are
    0     Require all tax/levy payments and other local collections to be                                                       f
                                                                                rural areas whereby all tadlevy are in theform o small
          deposited directly by taxpa. TS to the bank accounts of the local     payments Therefore, this requirement is no longei vulid
          government, except for smh@ayments like parking fees and
          admission fees to museums, recreation centers etc.
    e     Adopt use of serially numbered accountable receipt forms for all
          revenues.                                                             6) Not Applicable

    6) Strengthen effectiveness of internal audit function-by requiringthat     Rationale. DPRD has access to annual audited financial
    copies of all Bawasda general audit reports are provided to DPRD            statement conducted by BPK. This repori ES olso
    within 30 days o f being issued.                                            accessible through the BFK website. Thzs development
                                                                                                                               f
                                                                                was madepossibie through the implementation o the
    7) Imolement greater transoarencv in local financial management, by         Audit Law This requirement has therefore been covered
    requiringcompletion and publication in local newspapers or websites of      and is no longer valid.
    summary quarterly financial reportshudget realization reports within 2
    months of quarter-end.
                                                                                7) unchanged




                                                                      15
                                               ILGRP PROJECT PAPER

D. Procurement Reform Requirements




in procurement reform, with the following tasks
* Coordination with LPKPP
* Lead and coordinate procurement reform in kabupaten
      Implementtrainings on procurement to other work unit
* Oversee, monitor and report procurement practices
      Issue Procurement Bulletin in quarterly basis to publish
      information and opportunify in procurement including




                                                                        I
Issue an SK Bupati' on the systems and procedures for                   1   Unchanged   /

implementation of the Keppres 80/2003, with special attention to
the following:
a) Adoption o f standard bidding documents for kabupaten procured
contracts, regardless o f source of funding.

b)Establishment o f clear and robust mechanism for recording and
handling of procurement complaints.

c) Enforcement and public disclosure o f sanctions relating to
procurement deficiencies.
Impkment provisions o f Keppres 8012003 related to the following:           Unchanged
                                                                                            -

a) Removal o f pre-qualification system for small contracts (<RP 50
Billion), and move towards a post qualificationsystem for all
contracts

b) Public disclosure o f results of bid evaluation, name of the
winning bidder and contract scope/price.




                                                                   16
                                               ILGRP PROJECT PAPER



Implement provisions o f Keppres 8012003 related to the following.           Unchanged

a) Removal o f the restriction on bidding to bidders registered in the
respective district area only, and open the competition to qualified
bidders.

b) Ensuring that only appropriately trainedcertified staff are
involved in procurementdecision/actions/monitoring, including the
Pimpro, members of tender committee, as well as the Bawasda staff
involved in procurement audit.

c) Ensuringthat at least one qualified representativeo f civil society
participates in the bid evaluation process.

d) Public disclosure of the following procurement documents:
0    procurement plans of kabupaten work units;
0    contract rosters; and
0    project progress reports for all kabupaten projects

e) Conducting and public disclosure o f an annual survey on the
experience of bidders participating in kabupaten procurement, as
well as views and perceptions of civil society about kabupaten
procurement practices.




                                                                             Study
a) ensuring professionalism o f procurementfunction; and

b) efficient and effective handling of complaints

                                                                                                                             -
Reduce procurement delays and improve timeliness of award o f                The output wil! be monitored by the PrscurernentRet'Jnn
cmtracts.                                                                    Study

Ensure that all procurement actwities are audited by Bawasda, and            h o t Applieable
results of audit included in Bawasda's regular audit report
                                                                              Rationale. The national legalfiamework on procurement
                                                                              audit and the strategv for capacity building ofauditors are
                                                                              currentb still being developed by LKPP Without this
                                                                             framework and guidanceporn LKPP in place, it would be v e v
                                                                              dfjcult for local governments to improve their procurement
                                                                              audit functions
                                                                         I                                                             -
Analyze and report on price trends                                           The output will be monitored by the Procurement Reform
                                                                             Study                                                     -




                                                                    17
                                       ILGRP PROJECT PAPER


                                          Annex 3
                        Revised Resuits Framework and Monitoring
                Initiatives for Local Governance Reform Project (ILGRP)




Participating district             0   Extent to which recommendations        Q   Unchanged
governments improve                    from consultations/public hearings
transparency, accountability           are incorporated into district plans
and participatory practices            and regulations (perdas).
and undertake reforms in           0   Greater public availability o f        0   Unchanged
financial management and               information, in particular financial
procurement.

                                       poverty targeted expenditure by end-       increases in poverty targeted
                                       of-project (EOP)                           expenditure b y end-of-project
                                                                                  (EOP).

                               1   0



                                   0
                                       EIRR for project f h d e d
                                       infiasmcture > 15%
                                       > 12 district governments practicing
                                                                              Q




                                                                              0
                                                                                  Unchanged

                                                                                  At least 10 district governments    1
                                                                                                                      1
                                       accepted standards o f procurement         practicing accepted standards o f
                                       as verified by audits and studies by       procurement as verifiebb-audits
                                       EOP.                                       and studies bv EOP.                 I
                                   Q   > 12 district governments practicing       At least 10 district governments    I
                                       sound financial management as              practicing sound financial          I
                                       verified by audits and studies by          management as verified by studies   1
                                       EOP.                                       by EOP.                             I



                                   Q   % increase in stakeholder                  Unchanged
                                       satisfaction with government service
                                       deliverv .




                                                       18
                                      ILGRP PROJECT PAPER




                                                            -    -                                          -    -
   policies and budgets are                                                           (Completed)
   prepared through a                 12 Districts issue local regulations o n    0   I O Districts issue local regulations on
   participatory process and          mechanisms for public consultation              mechanisms for public consultation
   reflect local priorities for       and access to information by mid-               and access to information and
   poverty reduction.                 term and functioning satisfactorily,            functioning satisfactorily by EOP
                                      and 20 other districts prepare drafi            (Completed)
                                      local regulations by EOP

                                  0   Poverty reduction strategies and            0   Poverty reduction strategies and
                                      action p l a n s 7 issued and                   action plans are issued and
                                      implemente in 12 Districts by mid-              implemented in 10 Districts
                                      term and in 20 other Districts by               (Completed)
2. Improvements are made              EOP
   in procurement and             0   Action plans in FM reform are               0   Action plans in FM reform are
   financial mangement                prepared and implemented in 12                  prepared and implemented in 10
   processes                          Districts by mid-term and in 20 other           Districts (Completed)
                                      Districts by EOP.
                                  0   Action plans in procurement reform          e   Action plans in procurement reform
                                      are prepared and ilnplemented in 12             are prepared and implemented in 10
                                      Districts by rnidlx~3n in 20 other
                                                               and                    Districts (Completed)
                                      Districts by EOP        .




                                      procurement and financial
                                      management) by EOP




                                      and monitoring, 55 staff supporting             and monitoring, 20 staff supporting
                                      kabupaten governments                           District governments
                                      Prqject M&E system in place and            Ie   Unchanged
                                                                                              -
                                      providing accurate and timely data o n
                                      progress and outcomes
                                  e   Complaints received and resolved            0   Unchanged
                                      satisfactorily.




                                                      19
