C     P             |          | * | ~ | |     -  sDocument of
TIL           C        Y            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2022a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 18, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of  I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               -           Sudanese Pound, 100 Sudanese piasters
US$2.50 1/                   -          bSd 1.00
US$1.00                      =          1Sd 0.40
US$0.283                     X          SRls 1.00
US$1.00                      =          SRls 3.53
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                          10,000 m     a  2.47 acre (ac)
1 feddan (fed)                          1.04 ac      -  0.42 ha
1 ha                                                    2.38 fed
1 makhomas                                              0.60 ha
1 ha                  2                                 1.67 makhomas
1 square kilometer (km )     -                          100 ha
1 kilometer                                             1,000 meters (m)
1 imperial gallon (Ig)                                  4.545 liters
ABBREVIATIONS
AAAID       Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and
Development
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
GAC         Gum Arabic Company
ILO         Internatinal Labor Organization
NDC         Nucleus Development Center
ODM         British Ministry of Overseas Development
RMEA        Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (World Bank)
RWC         Rural Water Corporation
SOC         Sudan Oilseeds Company
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
The effective parity relationship for the US dollar is 3Sd 1 -
US$2.87156. An effective exchange rate of ESd 1 = $2.50 is applied
to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds
from exports of cotton, to which the exchange rate of ISd 1 -
US$2.87156 continues to apply, as a result of the application of
exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per US dollar (i.e.
15%) to the rate of bSd 1 = US$2.87.



i                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN: Savannah Development Project
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:    The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:      A Credit of US$17 million equivalent
Terms:       Standard
Project Description
The project would attempt to reverse the trend of ecological de-
gradation within the Project area. In particular the Project would imple-
ment a settlement program with the dual purpose of opening up presently
blocked stockroutes and of increasing crop production. The opening up of
stockroutes is vital for the annual migration of the transhumant families
and their livestock, and the rationalizaton of local land use patterns in
order to facilitiate this migration would be one of the principal goals
of the settlement concept. The Project would also aim at building up a
development oriented local administration by helping to establish a Devel-
opment Corporation which would exercise control of development programs in
the Province. Specifically the Project would provide staff for the Devel-
opment Corporation; and would include a settlement and crop production
program, including extension services, adaptive research and a pilot crop
marketing scheme; range management and livestock development programs,
including veterinary services, livestock-related adaptive research, and
non-formal education of livestock producers; improved maintenance and further
development of water facilities; project monitoring and evaluation; technical
assistance in marketing to the Gum Arabic and Oil Seeds Corporations; and a
human health survey.
Cost and Financing                                  US$ million
Local     Foreign     Total
Project Management                 2.9        1.8        4.7
Settlement & Crops                 4.0        3.4        7.4
Livestock                          3.7        3.2        6.9
Water Facilities                   2.6        2.8        5.4
Monitoring & Evaluation            0.5        1.2        1.7
Technical Assistance               0.1        0.4        0.5
Health Survey                       -         0.1        0.1
Contingenies                      5.9         5.6       11.5
Total             19.7        18.5       38.2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatath.



ii
The following table summarizes the proposed financing arrangements:
Local       Foreign
Cost        Cost       Total        %
IDA                     5.0         12.0        17.0        45
Saudi Fund              2.0          6.5         8.5        22
Government              6.7           -          6.7        17
Sub-total            13.7         18.5        32.2        84
Taxes and duties        6.0           -          6.0        16
Total                19.7         18.5        38.2       100
The proposed Credit would finance buildings, equipment, vehicle operating
costs and salaries and allowances for staff and consultants. The Saudi Fund
loan will be made available at 2% interest for 20 years, with 5 years grace.
The World Food Program is expected to contribute food for the settlers.
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
Year Ending June 30
1978   1979    1980   1981   1982   1983    1984
-     3.5     6.7    2.3    2.3    2.0    0.2
Procurement Arrangements: Equipment and supplies costing about $1.3 million
would be procured through international competitive bidding, under Bank Group
"Guidelines for Procurement". Construction costing about $6 million would be
subject to local competitive bidding, although in some remote places, force
account construction may be necessary. Consultants and other internationally
recruited staff costing about $2.6 million would be selected in accordance
with IDA guidelines.
Technical Assistance: The project would finance consultant services and
internationally recruited staff to help in executing the project, in esta-
blishing the Development Corporation and to provide assistance to the market-
ing corporations.
Rate of Return: The estimated rate of return for the total project calcu-
lated on the basis of the costs and benefits of both Phase I (the Project)
and Phase II, would be 14.5%. The estimated rate of return on Phase I alone
would be 4.5%.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1445-SU                Dated:  May 6, 1977



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Report and Recommendation of the President to the Executive
Directors on a Proposed Credit to the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan for a Savannah Development Project
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, for the equiv-
alent of US$17 million on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Savannah
Development Project. The Saudi Fund for Development would lend US$8.5 mil-
lion equivalent for the project and the World Food Program is expected to
contribute food valued at about $0.6 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Economic Memorandum distributed to the Board in September 1976
(Report No. 1273a-SU) provides a recent assessment of the economic situation
and prospects of the Sudan. The report also provided part of the basic docu-
mentation for the Consultative Group Meeting in November 1976. Prior to
that Bank staff had participated in the ILO Comprehensive Employment Strat-
egy Mission and played a major role in both the conception and execution of
the mission's work. Whilst the mission was an employment strategy mission,
its focus, as with previous ILO missions, was on the overall problem of income
creation for low-income earners in the context of a more rapidly growing
economy. The mission's report is comparable to a Bank basic economic report
and its analysis and conclusions are the basis both for our developing dialogue
on economic policy issues with the Government and for the development of our
program of operations. The report has been influential in stimulating discus-
sion of development policy issues in the country. A special government
working group reviewed the report and prepared a substantive and lengthy
evaluation of its analysis and conclusions. The report also provides a major
input into the preparation of the Six Year Plan for 1977-83. Social and
economic data on Sudan are attached as Annex I.
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the larg-
est country in Africa, with a population of about 16.3 million. Much of the
country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many
developing countries, there is no population pressure on presently devel-
oped land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or semi-
desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricultural
development. Estimates indicate that about one-third (95 million hectares)
of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production, and only
a small fraction of this land is presently utilized at all intensively. In
addition, the White Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water
which has enabled the country to develop the largest irrigation system in
tropical Africa. The Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to over
half of that allocated to it under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but



there remains room for considerable further expansion in irrigation. The
proximity of Sudan to markets in the Middle East and Europe places it in
a good position for agricultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries
have increasingly come to consider Sudan as a primary future source of agri-
cultural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is
still a poor country and is classified by the U.N. as a least developed
country. The most recent estimate of per capita GNP of $290 (1975) is based
upon estimates of national accounts of questionable reliability and appears to
exaggerate the standards of living of the people of Sudan and the state of
development of its economy. Certainly, there are large areas of the country
where most of the people have very low incomes. The economy is still heavily
dependent on exports of cotton, which is the major commodity produced on
irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its
considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing
sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural
commodities, it is limited to the production of consumer goods and building
materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and development of
these deposits is taking place. The public sector has long been important in
the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways and virtually all power and water supply. With the nationalization
measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry, commerce and
finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some industrial
enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is
still generated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of in-
vestment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
current expenditure was caused by increasing security expenditures, the
policy of hiring all post secondary school graduates and converting casual
labor on public projects into permanent government employees and rapidly
increasing transfers to local government. Further, savings generated by
public corporations also declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing
policies. Public sector deficits were increasingly financed through exces-
sive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the external position was
under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation of ex-
port volume.
6.        The period since 1973 contrasts sharply with the preceding decade in
many important respects. First, there has been a sharp increase in invest-
ment, especially in the public sector, with expenditures directed at the
priority sectors--transportation and other infrastructure, agriculture and
agricultural processing industries. Second, there has been a serious concern
with developmental issues reflected most prominently in widespread discussion
at the political and technocratic level of the problems of economic growth in



the Sudan since the ILO issued its report in 1975. Furthermore, the Govern-
ment has shown a willingness to discuss its economic problems openly. Not
only is this reflected in the continuous and serious dialogue on these
problems in which the Bank has been engaged with the Government over the past
two years but it has been most strongly reflected in the very frank report
which the Government prepared for the Consultative Group meeting in November
1976. This report and the Bank's own critical evaluation of Sudanese
development performance and prospects were freely discussed by the Government
with delegations to the CG meeting. Most recently, in January, the Government
organized an informal meeting of representatives of national and international
financial institutions, chaired by President Nimeiry and attended by all the
economic ministers at which a frank presentation of the developmental issues
was encouraged. Whilst all this increased interest in developmental issues
does not substitute for action, it is a necessary precondition for action and
certainly represents a marked change from the situation existing a few years
ago.
7.        This concern over developmental issues is being institutionalized
through the development of an effective planning machinery, with the assis-
tance of a UNDP planning project of which the Bank is the executing agent.
The Six Year Plan covering the period 1977-83 which is due to be launched in
July 1977 would be the most immediate and important outcome of this effort.
A comprehensive education sector review conducted with Bank and UNESCO
assistance has recently been completed, while an exercise to develop a
primary health care program has just been completed with the help of WHO.
Recent Economic Developments and Issues
8.        Over the five year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent--a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income, and the spurt in development expenditures
in other key sectors of the economy. Investment, which increased from
US$75 million in 1972/73 to about US$325 million in 1975/76, has been concen-
trated on the highest priorities. Wheat and sugar imports should be elimi-
nated by 1978; sugar will be available for export by 1979, reaching an
estimated volume of one million tons in 1985. Textile and sacking imports
will be much reduced by 1978/79. Medium staple cotton, groundnuts and some
other commodities will be available for export in larger quantities, an oil
pipeline is nearing completion, and both road and rail capacity are rising,
helping to ease the transport bottleneck.
9.        While the increased rate of investment on the part of the public
sector is in sharp contrast with the relative stagnation of the late sixties
and early seventies, in most other respects, the standard of economic man-
agement needs improvement. In particular the budgetary situation is a matter
of concern. Despite a good record in revenue raising, which is reflected in
a revenue/GDP ratio currently about 20 percent, the public sector continues
to be a net dis-saver. As a consequence, public investment has had to be



financed entirely through domestic and foreign borrowing. The resulting
credit expansion has been an important contributory factor to domestic price
increases averaging over 20 percent in the last three years.
10.       Externally, the increased pace of public investment coincided
with the higher rates of international inflation, which began in 1973,
and the recession in industrialized countries, which adversely affected
export earnings. The volume of cotton exports in FY74-75 was 45 percent
below the average of the preceding three years. A number of domestic
factors, including an unfavorable cost-price structure, also contributed
to this decline. As a result, the foreign exchange constraint to growth
and the budgetary difficulties were exacerbated. A major consequence of
these developments was a resort to foreign borrowing to finance development
expenditures and to support the balance of payments. From an average of $50
million in 1971-73 gross disbursements of foreign loans rose to $450 million
in 1974, and in the last two years have been of the order of $350 million,
annually. Excluding 1974 when the severity of the terms of borrowing re4uced
the grant element of loan commitments by about half, Sudan has managed to
borrow on relatively concessionary terms, reflected in average terms of 4%
interest rate, 24 years maturity and 6 years grace in the period 1970-75.
Nevertheless, the sharply increased borrowing in the last few years, a sig-
nificant proportion of which was in the form of quick-disbursing cash loans,
has resulted in a quadrupling of external public debt between 1972 and 1975
and has imposed a heavy debt servicing burden on the country (see para. 14).
Furthermore, the central bank has repeatedly had to borrow abroad in order
to finance the increasing overall deficit. As a result, Sudan's net inter-
national reserve position moved from net liabilities of less than $45 mil-
lion at the end of December 1970 to $500 million in September 1976.
11.       Confronted with these problems, the Government of Sudan has taken
a number of measures. So far as internal fiscal management is concerned, con-
sumer subsidies have been sharply reduced, defence expenditure restrained and
railway and utility tariffs increased. On the revenue side, tax measures in-
troduced in the 1976/77 budget are estimated to add about 10 percent to Gov-
ernment revenue. As recently as January, these measures were supplemented
by additional measures designed to increase tariff and other indirect taxes
on luxury consumer goods, while reducing those on essential consumer goods.
The net effect of these measures is a small increase in revenues. In any
case, with the Government already absorbing about 20 percent of GDP in the
form of current receipts, it would be unrealistic in the short-run to expect
any significant increase in the level of taxation, and essential improvement
in Government savings and reduction in credit expansion will have to come
from holding the growth of recurrent expenditures below the growth of reve-
nue.
12.       So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is re-
quired in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures do
not exceed appropriated amounts. Additionally, budgetary transfers from the
central to provincial and, through them to local, governments need to be
placed on a basis which is permanently sustainable. So far as the capital



- 5 -
budget is concerned there is a danger of over-commitment with too many proj-
ects being started and their completion delayed. In this connection, the
recurrent expenditure implication of public investment outlays needs serious
consideration.
13.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reforms in the tax
system should be to make it development-oriented. This requires a reduc-
tion in the reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based
consumption taxes and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the
growth in the modern agricultural sector. Another important aspect of
resource mobilization is the role of parastatals. While the public sector
in Sudan dominates all non-traditional economic activities, public enter-
prises have failed to generate adequate surpluses to finance development
expenditures, and their operational deficits have become a drain on the
Government budget. The Government is starting a comprehensive review of the
operations and performance of parastatal organizations. Bank staff will be
assisting in the review.
14.       Finally, the recent build up of external public debt and the for-
eign liabilities of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt manage-
ment and a further strengthening of the external debt control machinery. In parti-
cular, in view of the rapidly rising debt service burden currently 24 per cent
(projected to peak at about 31 percent in 1978) and in order that the debt service
ratio falls to more manageable levels in the early 1980's, it is essential for
Government to borrow on concessionary terms and to restrict borrowing to
that required for priority investments. In addition to factors described
above (para. 10) which were responsible for the build up of external public
debt, the debt management problem in Sudan is also one of knowledge: the
multiplicity of agencies in the government dealing with some aspects of
data collection or debt management makes it difficult to obtain a comprehen-
sive and accurate picture of Sudan's external debt transactions. New proce-
dures to ensure better debt management were introduced by a decree issued in
February 1976 which confined the authority to contract foreign loans to the
Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy. The Bank in July 1976
presented the Sudanese Government with an analysis of Sudan's debt data and
made recommendations for the centralization and analysis of such data.
Short-and Long-term Prospects
15.       The preceding discussion shows the Sudanese economy to be in a
transitional situation from a slowly growing economy, heavily dependent
on the fortunes of a single crop (cotton) and hindered by physical bottle-
necks, especially in transportation, to a more rapidly growing economy
with more diversified production and exports. The process of change is
hindered by serious deficiencies in the policy framework and is accompanied
by serious financial problems. While the budgetary and balance of payments
problems facing the economy are acute and deeply rooted, it is nevertheless
imperative for the Government to take steps to improve parastatal efficiency,



encourage public sector savings, and maintain more effective balance of
payments and debt management policies. The IMF is currently having discus-
sions with the Government on the short-run economic problems.
16.       The medium-to long-run objectives of the Sudanese Government, as
expressed in the draft of the Six-Year Plan, recently adopted by the Sudan
Socialist Union, include a rapid increase in the growth of GDP (7.5 percent
per annum in 1977-83), and emphasis on redressing regional inequalities in
incomes.  During the plan period, development strategy will continue to
emphasize agriculture as the leading sector, but its structural interdepend-
ence with other sectors, particularly manufacturing will be stressed through
agricultural processing, the production of basic agricultural inputs and
implements, and the promotion of small scale and cottage industry. Consider-
able investment will also go into further reduction and removal of critical
bottlenecks in physical and institutional infrastructure.
17.       Because of the balance of payments and budgetary difficulties,
the growth prospects of Sudan depend significantly on foreign capital in-
flows and on policies to encourage private investment. Indeed, one of the
crucial assumptions underlying the Government's plan is the expectation of
large inflow of loan and equity capital. The realization of this expecta-
tion, in turn , will depend significantly on the role played by the oil-
rich Arab countries. In the last few years the Arab countries have emerged
as the largest source of capital assistance to Sudan. On a disbursement
basis, Arab aid (excluding the $200 million Euro-dollar loan guaranteed by
Saudi Arabia) increased from $33 million in 1972 to a peak of $220 million
in 1974. Whilst a large proportion of these disbursements has been for bal-
ance of payments support, Arab assistance has been vital in such key proj-
ects as the Rahad Irrigation Project, the oil-pipeline, the proposed airport
at Port Sudan, a number of highway projects, sugar schemes and a microwave
project. For the future, of much potential significance is the ten-year
Basic Agricultural Development Program for the Sudan, prepared by the Arab
Fund for Social and Economic Development. Over the next six years (1977-83)
a First Phase Investment Plan, which will form the core of Sudan's Six-Year
Development Plan and consist of some 61 projects selected from the basic
program, is expected to be implemented at a total cost of about $2 bil-
lion. To help implement the agricultural program, twelve Arab Governments
on November 1, 1976 signed an agreement establishing an autonomous body,
the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Development (AAAID).
The Authorized capital of AAAID has been established at US$510 million, of
which 75 percent has been subscribed. The Authority is limited to a debt/
equity ratio of 2:1. Ratification of the AAAID agreement is at an advanced
stage and steps are being taken to commence operations.
18.       To support the directly productive investment envisaged by the
Arab Fund's program, large amounts of concessionary loans and grants will
be needed to finance infrastructural projects. Official bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies, including Arab agencies, are expected to contribute to the
program. Several donor agencies which have lent to Sudan in the past are
expanding their programs and others are starting programs in Sudan for the
first time.



19.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the
last three years. However, Sudan faces severe balance of payments and do-
mestic resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst these are
familiar problems in several developing countries, they are especially acute
in the Sudan. The country's medium-term prospects, however, look particularly
bright. These opportunities derive not only from the availability of foreign
capital, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential of the coun-
try. However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been outlined in
the preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects are to be real-
ized. The Government has shown its willingness in recent months to discuss
openly the economic problems facing the country, and it is our hope that it
will follow this up with policy measures to address them. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of development
by helping channel resources into the priority sectors in our project work,
by extending technical assistance to improve project identification, prepara-
tion and implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on policy
issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $342.5
million. Emphasis in our past lending has been on irrigated agriculture
and railway development, but other projects financed have included two power
projects, two education projects, a highways project, a domestic aviation
project, three agriculture projects, two credits to a development finance
company and a technical assistance credit. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31,
1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. The Bank/IDA share of
debt service is 10% (1976).
21.       Physical progress in implementing Bank Group operations in the
Sudan varies, but in general is quite good. Most projects have experienced
difficulty in getting key materials such as cement, motor fuels and timber, of
which there is a nationwide shortage. Most projects have also experienced
delays in delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation deficien-
cies. But, with the exception of the First Education Project, whose imple-
mentation difficulties have been compounded by very weak management, these
difficulties have been manageable. The Rahad Irrigation Project, which
earlier experienced numerous difficulties, is being constructed with real
determination. Although physical progress under the Third Railway Project is
satisfactory, progress in achieving the operational improvements has been
disappointing. Disbursements on IDA credits to Sudan have picked up in the
last year and are running at a rate of about $35 million per annum. This rate
should increase further (see Annex II).



- 8 -
22.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group can render a useful service by assisting with the
identification and preparation of a relatively large number of projects,
and by actively associating bilateral and other multilateral sources with
the financing of these projects. The technical assistance credit approved
by the Board in February 1976 is designed to assist in this way. The pro-
gress of this project is good and several preparation studies have been
authorized under this credit. The Consultative Group last met in November
1976, and the various agencies represented indicated levels of lending to
Sudan which will make a significant contribution to maintaining the level of
investment.
23.       The Bank Group's lending strategy in Sudan will continue to em-
phasize agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture we
expect to continue with a two-pronged strategy of investment to realize
existing production potential in the modern sector, while laying the foun-
dations for future production increases in the traditional agriculture sec-
tor. We are assisting the Government in preparing projects in irrigation,
mechanized farming, agricultural research and livestock. The Second Educa-
tion Project now under implementation emphasizes training in the rural areas.
We are starting identification of future education projects on the basis of
the recently completed sector survey. Lack of transport facilities continues
to hamper movement of goods within the country and to the outside world. A
Second Highway Project is under preparation, and included in most agriculture
projects is a feeder road component. A ports project is under discussion with
the Government and a fourth railway project will shortly be presented to the
Board. With the two credits to the Industrial Bank of Sudan, the Bank Group
is supporting private investment in the growing industrial sector. Other
projects under consideration include fisheries, power and water supply and
agricultural credit.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Current Significance of Agriculture
24.       The importance of agriculture to the Sudanese economy is demon-
strated by nearly all significant indicators. The sector contributes
about 40% of gross domestic product; over 95% of export receipts; about
75% of employment; about 90% of the raw materials for the industrial
sector; and a substantial proportion of government revenues. The crucial
nature of the sector to Sudan's development and the perceived potential
of the sector has called for careful and continuing analysis. The last
Bank analysis of the sector (apart from a significant contribution to the
ILO Report - see below) was contained in Volume III of the Economic Report
on the Sudan, dated June 9, 1972 (AE-27). Since then analysis of the sector
has continued in the Government's own agencies; in the Country Perspective
Study carried out by FAO in 1973, which explored alternative agricultural
development strategies up to 1985 or 1990; in the study of the investment
requirements of the sector carried out by the Arab Fund for Economic and



- 9 -
Social Development; and in the 1975 ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy
Mission. The Bank is currently carrying out an agricultural sector review
of Sudan with emphasis especially on issues facing the sector.
The Resource Base
25.       Of the total area of the Sudan (250 million hectares) about one-third
is suitable for crop and pastoral farming. At present about half of this area
is used, largely in an unsystematic fashion as range lands. Approximately 6.5
million hectares are cultivated and of this area about 1.5 million hectares
irrigated. Approximately 25 million hectares receive an average annual
rainfall between 400 and 800mm and most of it is suitable for rain-fed farming.
The use of Nile waters is governed by the 1959 Nile Waters Agreement,3 between
Sudan and Egypt, under which Susan is entitled to use 18.5 milliard m measured
at Aswan (about 20.5 milliard m measured at Sennar). Current consumption is
about two-thirds of Sudan's entitlement. Current and planned investment will
raise Sudan's consumption towards its entitlement, and Sudan and Egypt jointly
are starting conservation works aimed at reducing losses of Nile Water due to
evaporation and seepage. The size and location of the country, extending from
the dry tropical zone into the equatorial zone, mean that a great variety of
agricultural produce can be grown in the country, from the grains, cotton and
oil seeds of the dry tropical regions to tea, coffee, rice and other equatorial
produce in the south. Large areas of the savanna belt are suitable for
rearing cattle and sheep. This very large agricultural potential has been the
focus of considerable attention in a period of concern about world-wide food
production.
Current Pattern of Production
26.       There are three main types of agriculture in the Sudan.    Irrigated
agriculture is limited mainly to the area between and either side of the
White and Blue Niles upstream of their confluence, and to some smaller
areas irrigated by the Atbara and other rivers. Current expansion of irri-
gated agriculture is almost entirely in this area. The irrigated areas
produce nearly all of the long staple and medium staple cotton grown in
Sudan, and also produce groundnuts, sugarcane, wheat and other grains,
fruit and vegetables. The Bank was involved in the past in some of the
major expansions in irrigated agriculture in the 1960s and in the build-
ing of the Roseires dam which is providing water for further expansion.
Rain-fed agriculture has been developed mainly in the region lying each
side of the Blue Nile, towards the Ethiopian frontier and in Southern Kordo-
fan. Much of this agriculture is mechanized, due to the nature of the soils
and the very large areas involved. Production here has consisted of sorghum,
short staple cotton and sesame. Agriculture and livestock production in the
center and west of the country and in the whole of the southern region is
largely of the traditional variety. Although individual farmers produce
little surplus, the traditional sector nevertheless contributes significantly
to exports of groundnuts, gum arabic and livestock. However, marketing and
transportation difficulties limit the return to the livestock producer, and
there are large disparities between the earnings of those engaged in tradi-
tional agriculture and livestock production and the earnings of the owners and



- 10 -
tenants of mechanized and irrigated farms. This in turn means that there are
large regional differences in income levels, although these are ameliorated
somewhat by seasonal employment in the modern sector schemes.
27.       In the eight years 1967-75, the area under cotton was stable.    In
1975/76 the area declined about 10% as part of a conscious decision to diver-
sify agricultural production. In the same period, the area under several
other crops has increased significantly--sorghum/dukhn by 47%, groundnuts
by 140%, sesame by 82% and wheat by 170%. These acreage expansion are largely
responsible for the increase in production, yields having stagnated. Diversi-
fication away from dependence on cotton is expected to continue, with sugar
emerging as a very important crop. As mentioned above, Sudan's exports are
almost entirely of agricultural produce and livestock. Cotton has normally
accounted for about 60% of total exports, oil seeds 17%, oil cake 6%, live-
stock products 7% and gum arabic about 8%. However, imports of agricultural
produce have also been significant, amounting to about 18% of total imports by
1970, rising to more than 25% by 1972. During the period of very high prices
of sugar and wheat, imports of these products imposed a severe strain on
Sudan's balance of payments and domestic finances. In the light of the
potential for further agricultural production and of the problems caused by
imports of agricultural produce, Sudan is giving high priority to the expan-
sion of agricultural exports and the achievement of self-sufficiency in
presently imported agricultural commodities.
Organization
28.       Modern agriculture in the Sudan is carried out largely under the
authority of state corporations--the Gezira Board, the Rahad Corporation,
the Agrarian Reform Corporation in the field of irrigated agriculture and
the Mechanized Farming Corporation in the field of dryland farming. The
Cotton Public Corporation and the Gum Arabic Corporation provide particular
services to the cotton and gum arabic producers, and the Agricultural Bank
of Sudan provides credit to a relatively small number of farmers. The irri-
gation corporations exercise very close control over the agriculture carried
out in the areas under their supervision, prescribing the rotation system,
the crops to be grown and the planting times; providing credit and spe-
cialized services such as crop-spraying and having, in some cases, monopoly
purchasing power over the crops produced. Another group of corporations
controls both domestic and foreign trade in many agricultural and live-
stock products, applying state pricing policies. Traditional agriculture
and livestock rearing operate more independently but nevertheless they are
much influenced by the policies, including prices, set by the state-owned
or licensed corporations. In 1976, legislation was introduced to encourage
Sudanese and foreign private sector investment in agriculture. A number
of such investments have already been undertaken, and this will introduce
a new influence into the agriculture sector.
29.       Ministerial supervision is exercised through two ministries, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources (Agriculture) and the
Ministry of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power. The Ministry of Agriculture
provides a large range of services to the agriculture and livestock sectors



- 11 -
and is quite well staffed in certain fields. In other fields, such as exten-
sion or range management, the institutions are inadequate. The Ministry of
Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power is, on the whole, well staffed and competent,
with much experience in water management and the operation of large scale
irrigation schemes.
Sectoral Problems
30.       The great potential for agricultural expansion poses difficult ques-
tions of choice both for existing production and in regard to the new invest-
ment. For example, development of new irrigated areas means a high level
of investment, a higher output per hectare and considerable employment genera-
tion. Improvement of existing irrigated agriculture requires less investment
and can bring a high rate of return, but will increase incomes already quite
high by Sudanese standards and generate relatively little employment. Mech-
anized dryland farming also requires less capital investment than irrigated
agriculture, and provides less employment but also mobilizes private capital
for agricultural development. All three types of agricultural development can
yield large surpluses, to earn and save foreign exchange. By contrast,
development of traditional agriculture and livestock rearing would yield much
less for export, but can do much for the incomes of the poorest people in
Sudan. (It is worth noting, however, that about one third of Sudan's groundnut
and nearly all of the gum - arabic exports are generated in the traditional
sector.) Given the vast areas of land remaining to be brought into productive
use, and the nature of some of the soils, a high level of mechanization may
well be justified. But a way has to be found to ensure that the poorer people
benefit from the resulting higher productivity. The degree of mechanization
will also partly depend on the availability of seasonal labor, on which the
modern agriculture currently depends heavily. Labour is remarkably mobile in
Sudan, but upgrading of agriculture in the poorer parts of the country could
have the effect of reducing the willingness of labor to make the long journey
to obtain seasonal employment. A further problem concerns the incentive
system in the sector. The current incentive system does not favor agricultural
exports, while the institutional relationship between the irrigation corpora-
tions and tenants is not always conducive to higher yields, nor does it
encourage responsiveness to market demand.
31.       Large complementary investment will be required in transporta-
tion, storage, credit, marketing facilities and research to meet the needs
of the planned expansion in agricultural production. Currently, agricul-
tural research is concentrated principally on irrigated agriculture, es-
pecially cotton production. Investment in research concerned with rain-
fed agriculture urgently requires expansion and the Bank Group is expecting to
appraise an agriculture research project shortly. Output of high-level
agriculture staff from existing and planned agriculture training establish-
ments is expected to be adequate, but a large training requirement re-
mains at the lower levels.
Investment Objectives
32.       Current public investment is directed, firstly, at the expansion
of wheat and sugar production to remove the necessity for imports and to
generate exports; secondly, at the expansion of medium staple cotton and



- 12 -
groundnut production in the Rahad project; and thirdly at expansion of
mechanized dryland farming to produce sorghum and sesame. Private invest-
ment in mecnanized farming and in the production of groundnuts in the tradi-
tional sector is also expected to expand rapidly. In the South, progress
in the rehabilitation of agriculture is reasonable, with assistance from
the IDA financed project. The current focus of livestock development is
on the creation of a disease-free zone and disease control generally. In
considering how to realize its agricultural potential, Sudan has to find
the right balance between a range of priorities and development alterna-
tives, which sometimes conflict. To provide the foreign exchange for its
investment program in all sectors and to service its debt, high priority
will be given to agricultural production and processing for the export mar-
ket. This type of investment is likely to absorb the bulk of the available
resources. To assist in the mobilization of funds, the Government expects,
and will encourage, an increasing role for the private sector--in self-con-
tained modern sector schemes, in the mechanized farming schemes for which
the public sector would provide the essential infrastructure and services,
and for the tenants on the irrigation schemes, who would be encouraged through
an improved system of incentives. To help redress the regional disparities in
incomes, the government will give priority to the development of traditional
agriculture. However, this form of investment is unlikely to absorb a large
proportion of the available funds, due to the many constraints which can only
be overcome slowly. Some modern sector schemes will be located in the West
and South, which would also help to reduce the regional income disparities.
33.       Of particular importance to the future development of agriculture
in Sudan will be the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Develop-
ment, a financing agency which has been established to help implement the
development proposals made by the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Develop-
ment. The emphasis of this program is very much the same as that described
above. The principle objective will be production for export to the Arab
World, but the program recognizes the need for balanced development among
the regions (para. 17).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project would form part of an agricultural devel-
opment program for South Darfur Province, in Western Sudan. The pro-
gram is based on resource surveys and development proposals made by con-
sultants. The first study, financed by ODM, covered the Southern District
of the Province and formed the basis for a project for which ODM and the
Abu Dhabi Fund have provided financing. The second study covering the
Eastern District, financed by UNDP/FAO, provides the basis for this proj-
ect. A third study, also financed by UNDP and currently in progress,
will complete resource survey work in the Jebel Marra area. Although de-
velopment of this hilly area is likely to take a rather different form
from that in the Savannah region, it will be important for the region as
a whole. The proposals made by the consultants for the Eastern District
were consolidated into a project proposal by RMEA. This proposal was
appraised by a Bank mission in July/August 1976. Negotiations took
place in Washington in April 1977. The Sudanese delegation was led



- 13 -
by Dr. Wahab, the Under Secretary of the Ministry of National Planning. A
report entitled "Appraisal of a Savannah Development Project" (No. 1445-SU,
dated May 6, 1977, is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
A summary of the project is to be found at the beginning of this report.
Description and Purpose
35.       Southern Darfur has traditionally supported a population of
migratory pastoralists and a smaller number of sedentary cultivators. In
recent years, human and animal populations have risen quite rapidly, giving
rise to increasing settlement and damage from poor land use practices.
Fortunately, the situation can be improved by opening up to settlement areas
of sandy soils which are currently only sparsely used, due to lack of drink-
ing water. The project would attempt to reverse the trend of ecological
degradation within the project area. It would include measures for improv-
ing the way of life of a large proportion of the people in the area, by
allowing a more efficient utilization of land resources. In particular
the project would implement a settlement program with the dual purpose of
opening up stockroutes, presently becoming blocked by unorganized settlement,
and of increasing crop production. The opening up of stockroutes is vital
for the annual migration of the transhumant families and their livestock, and
the rationalization of local land use patterns in order to facilitate this
migration would be one of the principal goals of the settlement concept. It
will be important to ensure that future changes of land use in the project
area complement those taking place under the project, and assurances providing
for adequate consultation were received at negotiations (Section 4.05 of the
Credit Agreement). The project would also aim at building up a development
oriented local administration by helping to establish the Western Savannah
Development Corporation which would implement both the ODM/Abu Dhabi project
and the project proposed for IDA financing. The project components are described
at paragraphs 37 to 41 below.
36.       Together with the project in the adjacent Southern District of
South Darfur Province being financed by ODM and the Abu Dhabi Fund, the
proposed project would be the first attempt at integrated agricultural
development of the savannah region of Sudan. The project is therefore to
some extent experimental. The risks involved are, however, considered
acceptable. The resource surveys on which the project is based are very
detailed; the agricultural system to be introduced in the settlement schemes
would be very simple; the crops involved are already familiar to the farmers;
a strong monitoring and evaluation unit would be able to suggest modifications
as the project progresses and, finally, the implementation schedule is conser-
vative, providing for a two phase approach during which the emphasis on ex-
panding the production would gradually increase as the implementation prob-
lems become better known.
Settlement and Crop Production
37.       The full settlement program covering about 200,000 to 300,000
hectares, would be based on tube wells, which have already been drilled.
During the project period lasting six years (the first phase of the program),
about 2,500 farm families would be settled on farms of 20-30 hectares, a total
area of about 50,000 to 75,000 hectares.   Settlement on the remaining area



- 14 -
would take place in a second phase of the program lasting from year six to
year twelve. The purpose is not so much to settle people who are currently
nomadic, but rather to organize a spontaneous move towards settlement in such
a way as to facilitate both the settled and transhumant way of life. It
will be particularly important to control settlement in the area around the
water yards and assurances to this effect were received during negotiations
(Section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement). A Land Management Unit would have
responsibility for the settlement program. The settlers would receive long-
term land use rights, containing covenants for a suitable cropping system.
During this first phase, innovations in their farming systems would be small
and requirements for additional inputs, such as fertilizers, pesticides and
credit, would be negligible. Extension advice, which would prepare farmers
for later innovations, would be disseminated to farmers through Nucleus
Development Centres, containing field trial and demonstration areas and a
small training school which would be outstations of a Crop Experimental
Station. Extension policy and programs would be drawn up by a Senior Agrono-
mist, responsible for the adaptive research program, based on the Crop
Experimental Station. As the National Research Program of Sudan is developed,
this program of adaptive research would become part of the larger national
program. The project Authority would have a marketing division, which
would administer a pilot crop marketing scheme. Surplus products for sale
are expected to include groundnuts, gum arabic and possibly grain.
Livestock Development
38.       The project would support a data collection program on migra-
tory and sedentary livestock, and project staff, in association with pas-
toralists, would draw up a master plan for range management in the various
land systems represented in the project area. Non-formal education would
be supported and a post-graduate range school established. An adaptive
research program would be instituted and responsibility taken for a small
breeding herd, from which bulls would be sold to pastoralists. The pro-
ject would expand veterinary services in the project area, providing six
dispensaries and three mobile vaccination units, a diagnostic unit for
the district veterinary headquarters, drugs, chemicals and equipment
for sale to livestock owners, and facilities for veterinary staff.
Water Facilities
39.       About twenty hafirs (earth reservoirs) would be constructed, about
twenty existing hafirs rehabilitated, and water-yards built around tube wells
already drilled in the settlement areas. A Wateryard Division of the Western
Savannah Development Corporation would improve the operation and maintenance
of all 200 water yards in the Province, with a view to making them self-sup-
porting during the project period. Charges for water would cover all costs
except replacement of such items as boreholes, reservoirs and buildings
which have a long life (Section 4.04 of the Credit Agreement). The poverty
of the people makes full cost recovery impractical at the present time.
Other Project Items
40.       Given the nature of the project, a strong monitoring and evalua-
tion unit will be necessary. This would be established in the Ministry of
Agriculture in Khartoum and be responsible to the Minister of Agriculture.



- 15 -
Two of the principal cash crops in Southern Darfur are groundnuts and gum
arabic, marketed respectively by the Sudan Oil Seeds Company and the Gum
Arabic Company, both of which are predominantly government-owned. Both companies
are relatively inexperienced and require assistance to expand their buying
facilities and develop marketing systems, including the export market.
Consultants' services to assist these companies would be financed under the pro-
ject. The project would also finance a human health survey for South Darfur
province, to give more specificity to the program to be implemented under the
recently adopted National Health Care Program.
Organization, Management and Staff
41.       During preparation and appraisal of the project, much thought has
been given to organizational and staffing aspects. The provincial adminis-
tration does not have the capacity to execute the project, yet delegation
of authority from Khartoum for a project of this type is essential. The
solution arrived at is to establish a Western Savannah Development Corpora-
tion, which would be based in Nyala, the capital of South Darfur Province.
The Corporation is conceived of as a part of the provincial administration.
Once each functional division of the Corporation has become successfully
established, it would be transferred back to the appropriate provincial
institution. The Corporation would be directed by a Board of Directors, with
the Provincial Commissioner as Chairman. Other members of the Board would
include Assistant Commissioners for both administrative and technical func-
tions, local leaders and representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Finance and Planning. The Corporation's Director General would serve as
Secretary to the Board. The staff of the Corporation would be located in
various parts of the Province. The project financed by ODM/Abu Dhabi would
also be executed by the Corporation. The Corporation's annual work-plan and
budget would be authorized by the Corporation's Board and the Ministry of
Agriculture. Drafts of the legislation creating the Western Savannah Develop-
ment Corporation were reviewed during the negotiations and found to be satis-
factory. Establishment of the Corporation would be a condition of effective-
ness (Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement).
42.       A major difficulty which the project could encounter is diffi-
culty in attracting adequate staff to the project area, which is nearly
1,000 kilometres from Khartoum. Although qualified staff for many of the
posts are available in Sudan, the area has so few services that special
arrangements will be necessary for some time to come. To reduce this
difficulty, the project will have to provide adequate housing and other
facilities and an incentive level of salaries and allowances. Provision
is also being made, both in the proposed IDA project and the ODM/Abu Dhabi
project, for recruitment of some non-Sudanese specialist staff. It is
anticipated that in the two projects, up to seventeen posts may have to
be filled by international recruitment, and provision has been made for
eight of them in the proposed IDA project. The expatriate staff would
be expected to train staff to take over their positions in due course,
and they would be progressively phased out over the life of the project.



- 16 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
43.      The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties of US$6
million, is estimated at US$38.2 million, of which US$18.5 million (48%) would
be foreign exchange costs. Physical and price contingencies amount to about
30% of total project cost. The proposed IDA credit of US$17 million would
finance about 65% of the foreign exchange cost and $5 million of the local
costs. The remainder of the foreign costs and part of the local costs would
be financed by the Saudi Fund for Development (US$8.5 million equivalent) at
a charge of 2% for 20 years, with 5 years' grace. The Government would meet
the balance of the local costs, or about 21% of the total costs net of taxes.
The Corporation would have its own account, into which the Government would
place sums of money, for local disbursements. The Government has requested the
World Food Program to supply food valued at about $0.6 million for the settlers for
the two year period when their own production is disrupted by their moving to the
new farms. In view of the limited potential for cost recovery in the initial stages,
due to the poverty of the beneficiaries, an IDA contribution towards meeting the
high local cost component of the project is considered justified.
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       Items to be financed under the credit which are suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding include earth-moving and farm equipment and
supplies costing about US$1.3 million and these would be procured according
to IDA guidelines. Consultants and internationally recruited staff, costing
about US$2.6 million, would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Buildings, workshops and other structures dispersed over a wide area with an
estimated cost of US$6 million would be subject to local competitive bidding.
If no reasonable bids are received for buildings at the more inaccessible
sites, the Authority's Civil Works Division would proceed on a force account
basis. Staff housing would be essential to the progress of the project and
would require early attention during implementation.
45.       Disbursements would be made against 100% of the foreign or 80%
of the local cost of equipment and supplies; 100% of the foreign or 80%
of the local expenditures on vehicle operating costs; 100% of the total
cost of internationally recruited staff and consultants; 86% of the total
costs of building and construction; and 15% of the total cost of local
salaries.
Accounts and Audit
46.       The Corporation would have its own Administrative and Finance
Division, and be responsible for the accounts of both the proposed IDA
project and the ODM/Abu Dhabi project. The ODM/Abu Dhabi project provides
for a Financial Controller for the Division. Audit would be provided by
the Auditor General's office. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Oil Seeds
and Gum Arabic companies would establish separate accounts to handle the
components of the project for which they would be responsible.



- 17 -
Marketing and Prices
47.       Incremental production of millet available for sale, which would
not be large, would be marketed locally for local consumption. Incremental
production of groundnuts and gum arabic would be marketed and exported
through the existing marketing system. This system consists of private
traders, who buy crops and send them to Khartoum and Port Sudan for export,
and the Sudan Oil Seeds and Gum Arabic companies, which are jointly owned
by private traders and the Government, and which operate minimum buying
prices. These floor prices currently only operate at the principal buying
centres along the railway line, and to help spread their influence further
afield, and to facilitate collection and transport, the project will sup-
port creation of small bonded stores in the settlement areas. Incremental
production of groundnuts and gum arabic are unlikely to have any impact
on world market prices. Increased livestock output (cattle) would be mar-
keted through the traditional marketing system, operated by private traders,
which is quite well organized. Livestock marketing facilities will, in the
longer run, be improved under a national livestock marketing project now
under appraisal by the Association. Price assumptions were projections of
world market prices for groundnuts and gum arabic and local market prices
for livestock.
Cost Recovery
48.       In view of the nature of the project, its benefits are likely to
materialize only slowly. The farmers and pastoralists who would benefit
from the project have incomes below the poverty income level and the extent
of cost recovery which they could meet will be limited for years to come.
Although they would be charged unsubsidized prices for veterinary services
and operating and maintenance costs for water, and would also pay taxes
and duties on crops and livestock, full cost recovery is not considered
practical during the life of the project.   The Government would experience a cumu-
lative negative cash flow amounting to US$4 million by the sixth year of
the project. The recurrent costs would build up over the life of the proj-
ect and be gradually assumed by the Government. The foreign exchange effect
of the program would vary during its life, and from year 12 it would be con-
sistently positive.
Benefits and Justification
49.       The project is the first phase of a long-term program to halt
and reverse the trend of ecological degradation in the project area. Dur-
ing this first six-year phase the basis would be laid for the subsequent
phase, when the incremental production would become significant. During the
first phase, only a modest start-up production would be achieved and any
success in modernizing livestock production would be modest. For this reason,
the return on the project has been calculated on the basis of the cost and



- 18 -
benefits of both phases of the program, lasting twelve years. The main
quantifiable benefits would be substantial increases in marketed crops and
livestock production, valued at US$22 million annually in year 17, which would
be reflected in substantially increased cash surpluses of the families involved
(about 200,000 people). Additional benefits, which have not been quantified,
would include laying the basis for subsequent stages in the development of
Southern Darfur, both in terms of the creation of the necessary institutions
and through identification and development of improved farming and range
management techniques; improved and more reliable water supplies for the
Province, and better nutrition for about 10,000 farming families. During the
negotiations, the government provided assurances that, in consultation with
the association, it would take the measures necessary to make full economic
and productive use of the investments made under the Project. (Section 3.12
of the Development Credit Agreement). The overall economic rate of return
for the program over 30 years is estimated at 14.5%. The rate of return on
the settlement and crop production component is 9% and that on tae livestock
development 22.5%. These two components are not independent, however, so the
two have to be considered as a single package. The sensitivity of the invest-
ment to modest changes in costs and benefits due to variations in prices,
production, or postponement of benefits, is not excessive (1-1.5 percentage
points). However, the benefits would be seriously affected shculd farmers
and pastoralists in the area fail to adopt improved land use and management
practices.    (See para. 51 below).
50.      The project would ensure permanent employment for about 900 per-
sons and provide temporary employment for about 600 workers over much of
the investment period. Substantial additional employment would be created
on the settler farms. Labor requirements per settler farm would increase
by about 20%, and utilization of the available farm family labor would in-
crease from about 60% to about 70% of the total. No increase in labor is
expected in livestock production. The project would have a significantly
positive environmental impact in stopping the progressive degradation of
the land, which is now taking place as a result of inappropriate land use.
Risks
51.      As indicated above (para. 36), the project is to some extent experi-
mental. The resource surveys on which the project is based are very detailed,
and the natural resource endowment is not in question. The major risk is
that the farmers and pastoralists in the area could be reluctant to settle
in the new areas and fail to adopt the improved land use and management
practices. Intensive non-formal education and training programs for farmers
and pastoralists, the adaptive research program, improved extension services
and the creation of a development oriented provincial administration are key
elements of the project which should reduce risks of this kind. A second
risk is that progress of the first phase should be such as to discourage
the Government from going on to a second phase. The estimated rate of return
on the first phase of the program alone, in the unlikely event that there
will be no second phase, would be 4.5%, and stem from the limited start-up
crop production, with only a small contribution from livestock.



- 19 -
52.      The project has a high operating cost component.   On completion of
the project, the on-going operating costs will have to be carried by the
Government. We believe this does not create an unusual risk for the project,
however, partly because of the Government's commitment to the development
of the poorer regions of Sudan, partly because the operating costs will
gradually be assumed by the Government over the life of the project (para. 48),
and partly because these costs would amount to only a small proportion (less
than 0.5%) of the Government budget.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, and the text of a resolution approving the proposed
credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Principal conditions of the credit are referred to in para-
graphs 35, 37, 39 and 49 and are summarized at Annex III.
55.       The principal conditions of effectiveness are passage of legislation
establishing the Western Savannah Development Corporation and satisfaction of
the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Saudi Fund loan.
56.       I am satisifed that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1977






41  0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ 
o 0  00 
-  N0     4          -0  W  C                          0-  I
)40  9  03 WI                                          - 
- It
0 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o  *-3                                                           a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C  h
~~O.n       0  - w w- I
met  a                 0             I~~~~~D  C Z  CCft Z'     l - ~
SO  S                    -1         .4~ tOkK 
rem  a                        .00.0)         04)- 0                      A 
of ` t  ft                                     Cc-  



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unhless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1966 sod 1970, and for Most Ren-ct Estimate between
1973 and 1975
* D..n to emigration population growth rats is l-owr than the rate of natural increaso.
*4Morocco has been selected as an objective country becaus.e of certain similarities (isie of population, lack of population preooure, Importance
of agriculture, member of Arab wdorld, and accesa to OPEC asaistance), and has reached a stage of develorpoent to which the Sudan night aapire in
the moedium terms..
SLfDAN      1960    /a  1962;     /b  Rstio of population, under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force,         Ic  1963, Omedurman Urban;     Id  I.cluding
assistant nurses;     /e   Government hospital eotablisim.nts.                                                          _
1970    Ia   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to total labor force,          lb  1967-68;     /c  Governament hospital estsbisha,enta,
/d  1964-66,     /e  Beginning 1970, the duration of general secondary edacation was reduced from 9 to 6 years;            If  Urban only
MIST REtENT ESTIMATE:      /a  Including midwives and assistat nurses;        lb   1969-71 average.     Ic   1970;    Id  Beginn ing 1970, the
duration of general secondary education was reduced frmn 8 to 6 years.;        In  Go,'ermoent hospitals only.
K~ENYA      1970    I    Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force 15-59 years;         lb  Labor force age 15-59 years;       Ic  Urban;
Id  gegiatered, not all practicing in the country;        Ie  Total secondary in7cludes teacher training at the third-level.
iGYPT       1970    I    1966;    /b  gelates to 12-64 years of age,       In  Riegistered, not all practicing in the c-outry.
tjOROCCO    1970    Ia   Sue to emigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural incres.e;          lb  Government hospital establish-ets
Ic 1964-bk.
g7, May 10, 1977
DEPFINITION 0? SOCIAL lDWICATSRS
Ised Ares (thou ke2)                                                                    Populotion Par s-rsing person - Population divided by somber of practicing
Totl-I   Total sorfaco aces omaprising land araad island watrar.                          male and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certifIed" tnurses, and
boric.- Moat recent estimate of arclularea aaed temporarIly or perma-                     susiliary personnel with training or espertec... 
neatly for crps, posturea, market b kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                 Population per hassita1 bod - Pnpvlatlon divided by sucker of hnapital beds
available is public and private general and specialised hospital and
iN? par -acita (50 LI  INP per capita estimates a tourcnt market prices,                  rehabilitation centers, eacludas suring homes and esroblisisn,cts for
calculated by same conversion method as World Sank Atlas (1973-75 basis);               custodial and preveativo care.
1960. 1970 and 1975 data.                                                             Per capita aupply of calories (7. of requirements) - Computed from energy
equivalent of set food supplies available in coun.try per capita Per day,
Popuistion and vital st-atisic                                                            available suPplies  -oprise domestic production, imports lean esporta, and
Pvpeluiac- (aid-year  illion)   Au of July first'   if non avilable, average              changca in stock, net supplies  .colude animal feed, seeds, quan,tities used
of tw end-near e           1 tceos  0b, 1970 sod 1975 data,                             to food Process tag and iaaes Go discibcn,rquirenetaue,-e            ti-aced
by PAO baaed on Pbysioiogical noeds for oonai ac-tivity and heolch conaid-
Population density - Per anuace kou - Mid-year "poplation Per squ,are kilooeter           ering enviroaseta1 temperature, body weights, age and sea distributions of
(100 hectar.e) of total urea.                                                           population, and allowing 107. for waste at h.oushold level.
Pupulotion density - per anmare be of s9ine, land - Compu,ted us babve for              Per capita supply of protein (grama set day) - Protein content of Per capita
agiutrlland only.                                                                 nct supply of food par day; set spply of f0ood is defined as above; require-
mano for aii -ountrnie   eatobliahed by lIDA E iomic SeRarb- Services
Vital arta     sprovids for a ninita                                                                             allowance of 6i gr&   o f total protein Per day, and
Crude birth rate par thoussod. average - Annual live births per thousand of                20 grss of animal and pulae Protein, of ahich 10 grons should be an,imal
old-year population, ten-year oritinsetic overages ending in 1960 and 1970,              protein; these standards are lowr than those of 75 grom    of total Protein
and five-year av-roge ending in 1975 for mast recen.t eatimate.                         and 23 grems of animal protein as an average9 fur the world, proposed by PAO
Crude death race per thoc-snd. av-ao-       Annual deaths Per thousand of uid-ysor         in the Third World Food Sar-y.
population, ten-year Arithmetic av   Serae  ending to 19660 and 1970 and fins-        Per capita rocein sanely f,rom an  Ima and culbe - Protein supply of feud
year average endIng is 1975 focr noac recent eatimate.                                   derived frus  noimas oAd pulses in gr,ams per day.
Infant eataity rate (Ithoul - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age            Death rate (Ithuu) ages 1-4 - Annual1 deatho per thou..sed in age group 1-4
Per thousand live births..yas                                                                   to children in thin age group, suggested as sn indicator of
Life eneeccan..y at birth (yes) - Average tnanbe  of years of life renaming at            malnutrition.
birth, usually five-year avacages ending in 1960, 1970 and 195 for develop-
lag countries.                                                                        Educa.tion
Groa resrod-ttlon rate - Average number of lIve daughtors a w nona   will hear           Adjusted entailment catio - nrimarv school - Enrollment cf .eIi ages .. Pe--
In her noraf reprod-ctve period if she enperinces. presen.t sge-npeclfic                vantage of primary school-age population; ivcciden children aged 6-li yearn
fertility rates; toucly five-ye ar averages endiog io 1960, 1970 and 1975                hut adjusted for different lengths of primary educa.tion, for conntries with
for developing  -ontris.                                                                 universal education, enrolment may e-ceed 100% since 000    Pupls are below
PoPaistion arouth rate (7.1 - totai - Coopeund snoual growth rains of mid-year             or above the offic,ial nohoo1 age
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                           Adluated esroallose.nt ~ratio - n edr sho     - Computed as shov, secondar
Pocolation growth rte(7) uba        - Computed Ilke growth rate of total                   education requires At least four years of approved primary inotrortion,
population, different definitiorm  of urban oreac nay affect comparability of            provides genero1, voca.tional or teacher training instructions for pupils
data anong cootanries.                                                                   of 12 to 17 year. of age; corepond.nts. o    rues are generally ec-luded.
irbac .ceolation (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total populatIon ; different           Sears of sebhollog Provided (first anod seond levels) - Total years of
defisitione of urban areae map affect comparability of data bamng countriss.             schooling; at seondary le-vel, vocationl -i-totrrin may he partially or
Completely secluded.
bon sructro (nroet) -Children (0-14 years), wokn-g      M1-64 years),             Vocational enrollmn 7     fsonay        - Vocational inutitutions include
and rettired (65 years and over) as percetages of mid-year PPoplation.                   teohelual, industria  or other Programs which operate independently or a
ban epedeny rtio- Ratio uf population -oder 15 and 6l and ove   to those             departments of aecondor   i-ttStutlcna
of aces 15 throagh 64                                                                  Adult literac rae(M     - Lttrrtc adulJts (able to reed and uric) an Per-
icovmlo ecedeco racc  -Ratio of PoPuIlatiu, under 15 ned 65 and over to            c-ntoos ofy totaleadult population aged   5 ye urn end uvar
the labor fore to age groap of l5-64 years.
famil planiec -accepors (usulaive,thou) - Cuoulative n-oer of areptora        Sousinlg
of h1ici-vo-tcro  dovic-  tider ansplo-  of national f-nily Planning program          Person Perrom(rb         - Aversge cober of Peroon_   Perrc-mlnovcpled
sice inceto                                                                          covetina      dwellings is urban areas, d-eili    ecldso.prgnc
fmlplnIng -nPa(,u         are     oo)-frcantagos of married wooso                       tructures  ad unoccupied Pacts.
cl,ild-beaicg age (15-44 years) who uso 1bir th-control devices to all untri ed        Iccu.pied dwellings- uithoucpied wj.ater L     noodcnetoa             ulig
500ev in Some age group. ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     1 in  rba  and rural areas without inside or ohtsldc Piped cater fariliti-n
ERP12Y_-_~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                                             ..~~~~a percentage of all occupied d-ellin,a
cap I omen t                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Access to electricit (,oaldw lig)- Cuoventoonal duclintob  aith
otal aborforc (thusan) - oonoi-a11y active PeraOn, including aon,d                electr-icity in. living quarters as percent of total dwclnpc In urban and
forces and unemployed hut ...oiudief honnwive, atodevin. oto. ; dofinition               rura  areas.
In                   orlu.cotie  c  sot coparable,                                     coral dwellings -cnnected to electriiy     )- Compoted u ah.   y  for rural
labr forc    is agricultu-re(.)  -Agrioturat l labor forn- (in farming, forestry.         deelliga only.
hooting and fishing) as percentage of total labor ferno.
Unemloyd (7 ofleho foce) - Sepioyed are osoally defined as persons who            osmto
areabe ad  illngintak  aoh,ou     o  a jobu oneaivent day,. remined outnei ecies(a                  thou pe    - All tYPes Of receiers for radio broadcauts
of a Job, and seeking work for a speified mnmmpro           o  eieeinRoeto general public per thousand of pcpulation; secludesulcesdreeor
week, may sot be comparable between countries due to differet definitions                In cutisand in years when registration Of rodio- se      fts snl    reffect;l
of unemployed and sourc   of data, e.g., emplyment   ffice statistics, sample             aafrrcn         er    a    ch     oprbesnema           tco-nrleefboisedt
su-yep, copulsory unemployment insurance,                                                licensing.        .r     mynt .-pr.l            in.   ..   . nre      blat
Per-.tg. of riv.t.in-   (b4 in ..h ..dkind)Passenger_oars_pert_h_oukpop) - Passe.nger cars comPrise motor care sea tine
Incoe dicribrlne- Pecentge o  prIate  ncom  (hok ineashand  ind)lea      tha   ibiprona; encluden onbuianos, bearass and milItary
r-eeRvd by richest 5%, richest 202., poorest 20%, and poarest 40% of honse-             vehicls
holds.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Electricity_ (k h/r  r c-ap   - Annual consumptIon of induatrial . cmeca
public and Private .eletricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
DisU~trh.ibu no of is donrhp-     Percentages nf land owned by wealthiest 107              base.d on production data, without alwnefrlas             ngishtalw
and pourear 102 of land owners.                                   ~~~~~ing for imports and esporca of electricity
1!ealth and Nutrition                                                                    lfewprint (kg/yrper cap) - Per caPita annual nonumption in hilograms
estimated from, domestIc production Pius net imPorts of newPrint
Population ear ehysiciac - Population divided by sister of practicing
Physifan   qualifi-edfrom a medical school at oniver-lty leva1.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                       1970-75          1965 -70          1972
ONP at Market Prices         3,708.4     100.0                       4.5
Gross Domestic Investment      663.0      17.9                      11.4
Gross National Saving         265.0        7.1                       4.9
Current Account Balance     -417.0        11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS        436.5        11.8
Imports of Goods, NFS         790.0       21.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PPRDUCTMTY IN 1975
Value Added-'                Labor ForceI/                V. A. Per Worker
US$ Hln.                                                      us H}.A,%U 
AgricUJ.ture                1,297.7     41.3
Industry                      298.5      9.5
Services                    1,545.9     49.2
Unallocated
Total/Average            _2___
3,4.       100. 100.0                                           ..       100.0
OOVERNNE   FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
(   flfn.          X Of i)DP                 (us$  Hln.)        V Of 
197         rLY 1996 -7           -             1974t5     FY _1_07_2
Current Receipts                    ..          ..                              720.6       19.1         23.3
Current Expenditure                                                             728.6       19.3         22.4
Current Surplus                     ..          ..          ..                  -8.0         0.2          0.9
Capital Expenditures 3                                                          267.3        7.1          4.3
External Assistance (net)                                                       285.7        7.6          1.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES              FY1970       FY1971      FY1972      FY193       FY1974      FY1975
Million       outstanding end periodTF
Money and Quasi Money                   123.1        130.6      146.2       190.9        246.2      302.2
Bank crecit to Public Sector             90.1        112.2      120.8       152.2        190.7      257.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector            60.5         73.1       70.5        92.8        120.3      155.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        21.1         20.8       18.7        21.9         22.2       20.1
General Price Index (1970 - 100)        106.7        108.2      120.9       141.6        174.0      218.8
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                        ..          1.4       11.7        17.1         22.9       25.7
Bank credit to Public Sector             43.9         24.5        7.7        26.0         25.3       35.0
Bank credit to Private Sector            -1.0         20.8       -3.6        31.6         29.6       29.0
NOTE, All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocatedf' consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
not available
not applicable
EACPIB
May 6, 1977



ABBEX I
Page 4 of 4
BUIAliB  OF PA    OA TBJ  ' AL ASSaAU   AND M
tlents in miLlaoia Or V.15. doaui   at oU?Ust priou)
Avg. Annual
Aatual                        atimated       1ro.leote                                                   Growth Rate
1973        1974        1975          976         1877        1l2 78      21979                   V,80  5     1973-1980
SU1   -BALANCE OP PAYeTS
Zrorts (inel. NWS)                  447.5       394.4       436.5       581.7         615.6       703.9       819.7       936.1      1848.7           9.6%
399.0       603.4       790.0       867.7         976.9      1113.8      1261.6      1424.5     2587.2           17.2%
Rfl5cjr      AFf LK                            -        a       l       -     r       -Q          AS                     -7    3     mrd. 
interest (net)                      -12,5      -20.8       -30.2        -57.4         -70.3      -82.0       -94.0      -106.9      -1i.57'         30.8%
Other Pactor Payments               -17.9       -21.0      -27.6        -15.0         -20.0       -20.0       -25.0      -25.0       -25.0           4.3%
Direct Investment Income            -8.2        -8.0       -12.1       -20.0         '20.o       -22.0       -22.0       -22.0       -25.0          13.17
Workers' Remittance                   -           -           -           30.0         34.1        38.7        43.9        49.9        94.5
CurrentTransfers  at)                 6.2                     6.1        12.0          12.O        12,0         MQ                     2.            11.77
Balance on Currert iA ounta          16.1      -2.         -417.0                    -2526.9                             -577.5      -869.7
Private Direct Investment              -          4.9        10.0         30.0         34.3        39.2        44.8        51.2        99.9          34.1%
Official Capital Grants              10.0        25.1        10.0         30.0         60.0        84.0        70.0        70.0        88.0          27,5.
Public MDLT Loans
Disbursements                      68.8       314.2       160.3        332.9        402.5       458.6       505.6       544.4       729.5          29.5%
-Ray nts                           -39.8       -37.9       -52.1       -64.2        -114.7      -142.4      -139.1      -135.4      -101.2          15.57
Rtis      ereii.                                  7:T  29      .uT   27.rr            -1ry       -TT        316.          409.0       628.3          41.17
Other M&IT Loans
Disbursements                              -                 - '                                                                       -
-R   anet ts                                                                            -
Net Da uroeetsnte
Capital Transactions n.e.i.          -32.6       -8.9       225.8         50.0         52.5        55.1        57.9        60.8        77.6
Change in Net Reserve  (--increaae)  -22.5      -39.        63.0        -42.3          -9.1      -11.0       -12.3       -13.6       -24.2
Aetual                   Egstimated
GRANT AN.O LOAN OOMMITltZNTS                                                            DEBT AtD DEBT SERVICE          1973     1974     1975         1976
Official Grants & Grlike              34.0       35.0         -           30.0        Public Debt Out. & Disbursed  377.0    723.0    941.7        12595
Public MlcLT Loans                                                                      Interest om Public Debt      14.8     20.6     40.8          55,4
1BRD                                 -           -           -          20.0          Repaynents on Public Debt    39.8     37.9     52.1          64.1
rDA                                46.0        35.0        60.0         13.0          Total Public Debt Service    54.6     58.5     92.9         119 5
Other                                 -          -           -                        Other Debt Service (net)       -        -        -
Other Multilateral                    -        81.0        26.0         80.0          Total Debt Service (net)     54.6     58.5     92.9         119.5
Governments                         68.0       170.0      150.0         91.0
Suppliers                           50.0        54.0       63.0           ,,        Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Financial Institutions              49.0       352.0       61.0
Bonds                                                                                 Public Debt Service          12.2     14.8     21.3          20.5
Public Loans n.e.i.                                                                   TotaL Debt Service             -                 -
Total PUblic M&LT Slons                          692.0      *T20T          4            TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.      14.0     16.9     24.1          24.0
51TERNAL DE:BT                 Actual Debt Oatstandinr, on r-  i 1975                   Average Terms of Public Debt
Percent
181(0                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.9-          lnt. as 7. Prior Year 0040    4.5      5.4      5.6           5.9
IDA                                33.8                    3.6                          Amort. as % Prior Year D0o&  12.1     10.1      7.2           6.8
Other IlUltilateral                51.3                     5.5
Governments                       394.2                    41,9                        IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Suppliers                          81.0                    8.6                          " as % Public Debt O0D        19.6     11.2     7.8           5.6
Financial Institutions            307.3                   32.7                          " as % Public Debt Service    20.7     19.8     12.6          9.4
Bonids
Public Debts n.e.-                                                                     IVA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Total Public MkLT Debt              9a 7 Public Debt 00d                                                               7.8      2.5      3.4          5.0
Othsr M&LT Debts                     -                                                   " as % Public Debt 04D        0.5      0.5      0.3          0.3
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                  e staff estimate
not avallable                                   - nil or negligible
.,. not available separatey                         -- lees than half the
but included in total                              smallest unit shovn                                                                  MACPIy



ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN (as of March 31, 1977)
Aw.unt (US$ Million)
Credit No.   Year  Borrower         Purpose             Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed:               127.2   14.9
Credit 122    1968   Sudan    Education I                        8.5       2.2
Credit 311    1972   Sudan    Mechanized Farming II             11.3       6.7
Credit 331    1972   Sudan    Highways I                         7.0       1.1
Credit 364    1973   Sudan    Rahad Irrigation                  42.0      17.4
Credit 364-2 1975    Sudan    Rahad (Supplement)                20.0      20.0
Credit 447    1973   Sudan    Industrial Bank of Sudan I         4.0       0.4
Credit 457    1974   Sudan    Railways III                      24.0      11.0
Credit 476    1974   Sudan    Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project                         10.7 /a    7.9
Credit 547    1975   Sudan    Education II                      10.0       9.6
Credit 564    1975   Sudan    Power II                          23.0      19.1
Credit 589    1975   Sudan    Industrial Bank of Sudan II        7.0       7.0
Credit 614    1976   Sudan    Technical Assistance               4.0       4.0
Credit 643    1976   Sudan )
Loan 1287T    1976   Sudan ) Domestic Aviation           20.0    9.0      29.0
147.2  195.4     135.4
Total -
Of which has been repaid                         61.6    2.7
Total now outstanding                              85.6   193.1
Amount sold -                         5.8
Of which has been repaid            5.8           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                  85.6  192.7
Total Undisbursed                                  20.0  115.4      135.4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1977)
Fiscal                                       Type of     (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                 Obligor                 Business    Loan  Equity     Total
1964 and   Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.   Textiles    1.87   0.34       2.21
1972
1976       Cotton Textile Mills                          8.71   1.27      9.98
Total gross commitments                    10.58   1.61     12.19
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      1.69   0.07      1.76
Total commitments now held by IFC           8.89   1.54     10.43
Total undisbursed                           2.21   0.35      2.56
/a   Includes grant participation of $5.35 million, of which $4.3 million is
undisbursed.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made seven loans and fourteen credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or expected to commence
for the following projects.
Credit No. 122      First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays have been caused by belated appointment of consultant architects,
difficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses
in management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply short-
ages continue to interrupt construction. Recently changes were made in
project management. Cost overruns have been met by reducing the scope of the
project. We are continuing to monitor the project closely with a view to
ensuring that the project is completed by the new closing date.
Credit No. 547       Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
May 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will help meet priority education needs, principally
in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a
new type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Center for schooling in the
rural context. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site
selection and the education sector survey supported under the project has been
completed. Tendering is now under way. Implementation of the construction
program will be difficult and we are concerned that insufficient priority is
being assigned to ensure that these difficulties can be overcome.
Credit No. 311       Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan = 1.038 acres) was completed
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended by
75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road
construction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on
road improvements and construction of a training center are still behind
schedule. Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized farming
have been completed. Disbursements are proceeding steadily.
Credit No. 364      Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of March 30,
and 364a             1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
and November 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of agri-
cultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of about
14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary infrastruc-
ture and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated in the
initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million each.
Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes, occurred and an in-
crease in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved by the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1975. The remaining increase of $81.5 in
the foreign exchange cost will be financed by the Kuwait Fund ($39 million),
the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab Fund ($14.5 mil-
lion). The Government will meet the increased local cost of the project,
totalling $80 million. Although work got off to a slow start in 1974, there
was good progress in earth-moving, design work and procurement of equipment
in 1975. The new management structure for the project is a distinct improve-
ment. Progress on the structures since October 1975 has been satisfactory
and planning for the settlement and agricultural programs is well advanced.
Diversion of the first water should occur in July 1977, slightly behind sche-
dule and the pumps should be ready to maintain water supplies after the 1977
rainy season.
Credit No. 476      Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Proj ect;
US$10.7 Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to farm-
ers, (ii) expanding extension services, (iii) establishing a center for nu-
trition research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production
through a program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also



ANNEX II
Page 4
aims at rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and establish-
ing the nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit and tech-
nical assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included. Provi-
sion of staff housing and recruitment of staff took sometime, but has now
been completed and good progress is now being made. Seed trials and seed
multiplication and cotton planting are under way. Coffee planting is ahead
of schedule. The associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed largely by
Germany, is under way, but the dairy component has encountered problems. A
project review mission took place in March to assess whether any modifications
to the project would be desirable now that the Region is moving beyond the
rehabilitation stage. Disbursements are expected to be completed on schedule.
The Government of Norway has taken a participation in this credit amounting to
US$5.35 million.
Credit No. 331      Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials.
Also included were feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport in transport planning and training of RBPC staff. The project
is approaching completion, except for the technical assistance component.
To provide time for execution of this component, the closing date has been
extended. Detailed engineering is underway on 480 km of roads shown to be
feasible in the feasibility studies. Due to cost escalation on some project
items these engineering studies which are expected to lead to a second highway
project will be financed by other means.
Credit No. 457       Third Railways Project; US$24 Million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and maintain the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complementary trans-
port modes and includes components to assist river transport, port develop-
ment and civil aviation. Contracts for supply of much of the equipment under
the credit have been awarded and disbursements are now expected to be rapid.
Useful discussions have been held with Sudan Railways about means to upgrade
the standard of operations, which is an important element of this project,
and a fourth Railway project which would finance additional equipment needed
for this purpose is under consideration.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1287T      Domestic Aviation Project; US$20 Million Loan of July 9,
and           1976 and US$9 Million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Credit No. 643      Date:   January 11, 1977; Closing Date:   September 30, 1981
The project consists of final design and construction of two new
airports and upgrading of two existing airports, complete with terminal
and other facilities; navigational and communication equipment; and certain
technical services. Design work is at an advanced stage and tendering is in
progress.
Credit No. 447       First Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:   US$4 Million
Credit of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15,
1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan to
function more effectively in financing industrial development in the private
and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet IBS' re-
quirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975, but
business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved subproj-
ects exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. Disbursements are expected to
be completed in 1977. A second credit to IBS was approved by the Board in
November 1975.
Credit No. 589       Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 14,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project will continue IDA's support for this development finance
company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized indus-
tries. Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait Fund and
the Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the foreign exchange
needs of the Industrial Bank up to late 1978.
Credit No. 546       Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project consists of the fourth unit at the Roseires hydro-elec-
tric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, transmission and distribu-
tion lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and services.
Implementation of the generation and transmission features of the project is
proceeding generally on schedule although adequate bids for the civil works
at Roseires have not been forthcoming. Contracts have been awarded for most of
the main components and these indicate that there is likely to be a 25% cost
overrun. The Government is seeking additional foreign exchange to meet these
costs. A new management structure is showing some promise, and good progress
has been made in improving the financial operations. The various studies
financed under the project are either in progress or nearing completion.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 614      Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 4, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project, financed by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, will finance
preparation studies of high priority projects, to facilitate Sudan's public
investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established and in its
first two meetings, the Project Review Committee authorized five studies
for financing under the project. Progress achieved has been good.



ANNEX III
SUDAN: Savannah Development Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Four years, resource surveys: six
months, project preparation
(b) Preparation by: Hunting Technical Services (UK) and IBRD (RMEA)
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:   September 1975
(d) First Bank Mission: December 1975
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:   July 1976
(f) Negotiations: April 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1977
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1.        Any further uncontrolled settlement around the already opened
wateryards in the project area would be proscribed (para. 37).
2.        Maintenance and operating costs for the wateryards would be re-
covered to the fullest extent possible by establishing an appropriate rate
for water charges which would be reviewed from time to time and adjusted
as necessary (para. 39).
3.        The Western Savannah Development Corporation and IDA would be con-
sulted prior to approval of any major change in land use in the program
area (para. 35).
4.        After completion of the Project, the Government will take necessary
measures to make full economic and productive use of the project investments.
(para. 49).
5.        The legislation for the Western Savannah Development Corporation
would have been promulgated (condition of effectiveness para. 41).
6.        The conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Saudi Fund
loan have been satisfied (condition of effectiveness para. 55).



