Report No 1445-SU                                                          FILE  CAdt  i
Sudan: Appraisal of the
Savannah Development Project
May 6, 1977
Eastern Africa Region
Agricultural Credit and Livestock
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
othjerwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =         Sudanese Pound (ISd), Saudi Arabian
Riyal (SRls)
US$2.50 1/                =          Sd 1.00
US$1.00                   =          Sd 0.40
US$2.5 million            =         bSd 1.0 million
US$0.283                            SRls 1.00
US$1.00                             SRls 3.53
US$283,000                          SRls 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)            =         10,000 m2  = 2.47 acre (ac)
1 feddan (fed)            =         1.04 ac    = 0.42 ha
1 ha                                             2.38 fed
1 makhomas                                       0.60 ha
Iha                    2                         1.67 makhomas
I square kilometer (km ) =                       100 ha
1 kilometer                                      1,000 meters (m)
1 imperial gallon (Ig)   =                       4.545 liters
ABBREVIATIONS
ABS       Agricultural Bank of Sudan
GAC       Gum Arabic Company
HTS       Hunting Technical Services, Ltd.
MEDD      ODM's Middle East Development Division in Amman
NDC       Nucleus Development Center
ODM       British Ministry of Overseas Development
PC        Provincial Commissioner
PEC       Provincial Executive Council
RC        Rural Council
RMEA      Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (World Bank)
RMR       Resource Management and Research, Ltd.
RWC       Rural Water Commission
SFD       Saudi Fund for Development
SOC       Sudan Oilseeds Company
SSU       Sudan Socialist Union
UNEP      United Nations Environmental Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WSDC      Western Savannah Development Corporation
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   The effective parity relationship for the US dollar is iSd 1 = US$2.87156.
An effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 is applied to all exchange
transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from exports of cotton
and gum arabic, to which the exchange rate of iSd I = US$2.87156 continues
to apply, as a result of the application of exchange taxes and subsidies
of 5.18 piastres per US dollar (i.e. 15%) to the rate of bSd I = US$2.87.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION  . ............... ............. . . . . .  .   i-iii
Is   INTRODUCTION  ........................ .                                       1
II.    BACKGROUND so.............................. .... .--o...o...                   2
A.  General ..........                          ..     .2
B.   The Agricultural  Sector            .......................        2
C.  Livestock and the Economy .....................                    4
D.  Government's Future Development Plan ....                ......     5
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ................                                              5
A.  General  ...........           ...........................         5
B.  Livestock and Crop Production               ...........            7
IV.    THE PROJECT ...................               .........................        7
A.  General Description . ............ . . . . . . .....    .  ..      7
B.  Detailed Features  ......                                          8
C.   Project Costs  ....        ........................    15
D.   Financing  ..... ***..**...0....... 0...................    16
E.  Procurement  .s   .................................               17
F.  Disbursement  ...................  .................s             18
G.   Accounts and Audit ............................                  18
H.  Environmental Impact .... ......................                  19
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............................    19
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS..    21
A.   Crops ..................... ........ .............               21
B.  Livestock .........................00               ....          23
C.   Producer Benefits ....    ..                      ..........    24
D.   Government Cash Flow . ......              ... o ............. . .    25
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ....................    26
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .........o........ o.    27
This documenthas a mtrkod ditributionand may beused byrecipients only in theperformance
ofteir offiialdutio Its coants may not otherwisebe discloed wtnhout World bank authoriztion.



-2-
GLOSSARY OF LOCAL TERMS
ANNEXES
1.   Basic Demographic and Social Data
Table 1 - Population of the Sudan by Region and
Province
Table 2 - Percentage Distribution by Province of
Urban, Rural and Nomadic Population
2.   Livestock and the Economy
3.   The Project Area
4.   Social and Political Organization in South Darfur Province
Chart - Social and Political Institutions (World
Bank 16620)
5.   Basic Assumptions
6.   Crop Production
7.   Project Livestock Development Activities
8.   Water Facilitiies and Buildings
9.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
10.   Technical Assistance for Marketing Companiesr
iI.   Human Health Survey
12.   Project Cost
Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs/ by Organizational Unit
Table 2 - Summary of Project Costs! by Item
13. Project Financing, Disbursement and Implementation Schedules
Table 1  - Tentative Sources of Financing
Table 2  - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Table 3  - Tentative Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Table 4  - Estimated Phasing of Staff Employment
Charts   - Implementation Schedule (World Bank 16611)
- Professional Staff Employment and Housing
Construction (World Bank 16942)



-3-
ANNEXES (Continued)
14. Costs of Possible Phase II Project
Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs by Organizational Unit -
Phase II
15. Organization and Management
Appendix 1 - Public Enterprises
Appendix 2 - Draft Terms of Reference for Key Project
Staff -
Chart - Organization of the Western Savannah Development
Corporation (World Bank 16579)
Chart - Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food and Natural Resources (World Bank 16490)
16. Crop and Livestock Marketing
Table 1 - Estimates of Total Crop Output
Table 2 - Crop Exports
Table 3 - Principal Cash Crops - Eastern District
Council
Table 4 - Nyala and Ed Da'ein Market Supply Data
Table 5 - Nyala and Ed Da'ein Cattle and Sheep Prices
and Index, 1970/71 to 1974/75
Graph - Total Cattle Marketed at Four Principal Markets
in Southern Darfur Eastern Area Council 1974-75
17. Farm Budgets
Table I - Crop Cultivator and Pastoralist Estimated
Household Budget
Table 2 - Budget of Millet and Groundnuts Crops
Table 3 - Monthly Farm Crop Labor Requirements
Table 4 - Crop Farm Budgets
18. Government Cash Flow
Table I - Government Cash Flow
19. Taxes and Duties
Table 1 - Estimated Tax Revenues, Eastern District
Council



-4-
ANNEXES (Continued)
20. Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation, Phases I and II
Combined
Table 2 - Rate of Return Calculation, Phases I and II Combined
Table 3 - Economic Rate of Return of the Settlement and Crop
Components, Phases I and II Combined
Table 4 - Economic Rate of Return of the Settlement and
Crop Components, Phase I
Table 5 - Economic Rate of Return of the Livestock
Component, Phases I and II Combined
Table 6 - Summary of Rate of Return Calculations
Table 7 - Groundnut Prices
Table 8 - Gum Arabic Prices
MAPS
1.   Settlement Schemes - IBRD 12473 R
2.   Land Systems       - IBRD 12474 R
3.   Livestock           - IBRD 12476 R1
4.   Livestock:  Grazing, Inaccessible and Burned Areas - IBRD 12495 R



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Development of the vast unsettled areas of the western Sudan
has in the past been given relatively low priority, most investments in
agriculture being concentrated in the more modern agricultural sector along
the Nile rivers. Primary emphasis was given to the expansion of modern
mechanized dryland and irrigated crop production. Recently, however, Govern-
ment has committed itself to a reduction of inter-regional income and invest-
ment disparities, and has undertaken a comprehensive development program for
South Darfur Province in the western part of the country. This area has long
supported a growing population of migratory pastoralists along with a smaller
number of sedentary cultivators. In recent years, however, a rapid increase
in both the human and livestock populations has resulted in rapidly increasing
settlement and damage from poor land use practices. The proposed Savannah
Development Project would be an integral part of Government's long term
development program in South Darfur Province. It would constitute the first
stage of a program which, over a period of about twelve years, would institute
changes in customary land use practices aimed at ensuring the long term
conservation and improved utilization of soil and pasture resources.
ii.       The Project would over six years provide measures for improving
the way of life of a large proportion of the people in the area by allowing
a more efficient utilization of land resources. In particular, the Project
would initiate the implementation of a settlement program with the dual
purpose of opening up presently blocked stockroutes and of increasing crop
production. The opening up of stockroutes is vital for the annual migration
of the transhumant families and their livestock, and the rationalization of
local land use patterns in order to facilitate this migration would be one of
the principal goals of the settlement concept. The Project would also aim at
building up a development oriented local administration by helping to estab-
lish a Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) which would have
overall responsibility for the organization and implementation of the Project
as well as the proposed ODM/Abu Dhabi project. Specifically the Project would
provide: (a) staff for the WSDC; (b) a settlement and crop production program
which would include extension services, adaptive research, and a pilot crop
marketing scheme; (c) range management and livestock development programs
including veterinary services, livestock-related adaptive research, and
non-formal education of livestock producers; (d) improved maintenance,
operation and further development of water facilities; (e) Project monitoring
and evaluation; (f) technical assistance for the Gum Arabic and Oil Seeds
companies; and (g) a human health survey.
iii.      An IDA Credit of US$17 million is proposed which would cover
US$12.0 million or 65% of the foreign exchange costs of the Project and



- ii -
US$5.0 million or about 25% of local costs over the six year Project period.
This would represent 45% of total Project costs of ESd 15.3 million (US$38.2
million) including taxes and duties. The Saudi Fund for Development (SFD)
would contribute 30 million Riyals (about US$8.5 million); this would finance
about US$6.5 million or 35% of the foreign exchange costs and about US$2.0
million or 10% of local costs. This contribution would cover about 22% of
total Project costs including taxes and duties. Together SFD and IDA would
finance 100% of foreign exchange costs and 35% of local costs, or 67% of total
Project cost including taxes and duties (79% excluding taxes and duties).
The remaining US$12.7 million would be contributed by Government; this
would be offset to the extent that Project costs include about US$6 million
in taxes and duties. The SFD, IDA and Government contributions would be
channelled directly by Government on a grant basis to the WSDC, which would
establish a separate bank account for the Project. Procurement of equipment
and supplies in orders over US$50,000 would be subject to international compe-
titive bidding (ICB) according to IDA guidelines; ICB would total an estimated
ESd 0.5 million (US$1.3 million). The construction of buildings, workshops,
training facilities and other structures which due to their dispersed loca-
tions would not attract ICB would be subject to local competitive bidding by
local building contractors and the Corporation for Public Buildings and Works.
In those cases where the buildings would be in localities so remote that no
reasonable bids would be received, the WSDC's Civil Works Division would
proceed on a force account basis. In both cases the WSDC would consult with
the Ministry of Construction and Public Works and if necessary request their
services. The total amount of local competitive bidding is estimated at about
ESd 2.3 million (US$6 million). Internationally recruited staff (US$2.6
million) required for technical assistance would be selected in accordance
with IDA guidelines.
iv.       The total annual incremental crop production at full development
would be about 50,000 tons of unshelled groundnuts and 3,400 tons of gum
arabic; this production would be valued at estimated March 1977 prices at
about ESd 3.4 million (US$8.5 million). The total annual incremental live-
stock production at full development would be valued at about ESd 5.4 million
(US$13.5 million). Incremental output was calculated on the basis of the
expected output from the Project as well as from a possible second stage
(Phase II) project; together these constitute the program. This approach was
considered appropriate as initial investments in Project infrastructure,
research, management, veterinary sevices, etc. would be high, and results
would materialize only gradually over a long period of time. The program
would also have a number of additional benefits which are more difficult to
quantify. These would include: (a) better nutrition for about 10,000 farming
families in the area; (b) more reliable, sanitary and accessible water sup-
plies for the population of the whole Province (about 0.6 to 0.8 million
persons); and (c) an institution building effect.
v.        The major benefits for farmers and pastoralists involved in the
settlement and range management schemes would be an increase in income from
expanded crop and/or livestock production. Overall the program would affect
an estimated 35,000 families or about 200,000 people. The average annual



- iii -
gross production of both farmers and pastoralists would more than double over
a thirty-year period; more important, the cash surplus of a program farm
family would increase from US$20 to about US$170, and that of a pastoralist
family would increase from US$100 to US$350. Most farm and pastoralist families
expected to participate in the program have incomes below the current poverty
income level in the Sudan (estimated at U$65).
vi.       The overall economic rate of return was calculated on the basis
of the costs and benefits of both the proposed Project and a possible Phase
II project. The calculation of an overall rate of return for Phase I (the
Project) alone would be misleading since it would not reflect the potential
benefits of the entire program - a period of about 12 years. In the first
phase, only a modest start-up production would have been achieved, and any
success in modernizing livestock production would also be modest. The
program's overall rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 14.5% and is a re-
flection of the rates of return of two components: (i) settlement and crop
production (ERR 9%) and (ii) livestock development (ERR 22.5%). These two
components, however, are not independent, as one of the main purposes of
the settlement program is the opening of trekking routes for nomadic cattle,
and any reduction of the settlement and crop component would adversely affect
the opening of these stockroutes. The small amount of incremental hired farm
labor involved would only be required in times of seasonal labor shortages and
was valued at market prices. Costs exclude taxes and other transfers within
the economy. Foreign exchange was shadow priced at a rate of ESd 1 = US$2
(compared to the current rate of LSd 1 = US$2.5) in the economic cost and
benefit calculations to reflect a more realistic value of foreign exchange
for the economy. An increase of 10% in all costs would reduce the ERR by
1% point from 14.5% to 13.5%. A decrease of 10% in benefits would also re-
duce the ERR by 1% point from 14.5% to 13.5%. The program as a whole would
thus be only moderately sensitive to changes in costs, benefits or the rate of
development, but would be seriously affected should the farmers and pastor-
alists in the area fail to adopt improved land use and management practices.
vii.      This would be the Bank Group's sixth lending operation for agri-
cultural development in the Sudan since 1956. These previous credits have
totalled some US$137 million and included two Mechanized Farming Projects, two
credits for the Rahad Irrigation Project, and a Southern Region Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project. After some initial delays, implementation of the
second Mechanized Farming project is proceeding well. The Rahad Project
experienced severe cost over-runs in its initial stages, which required
refinancing of the entire project with the assistance of other international
financing agencies; although implementation was slow getting underway, since
then reasonable progress has been achieved. Due to the remoteness of the area
and to the difficulties of attracting staff to the Southern Sudan, the Agri-
cultural Rehabilitation Project started slowly but disbursements are expected
to be completed on time.
viii.     On the basis of the assurances obtained, the proposed Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$17 million to the Government of the Sudan.






SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      Development of the vast unsettled areas of western Sudan has in the
past been given relatively low priority, as most investments in agriculture
continued to be concentrated in the more modern agricultural sub-sector along
the Nile rivers. Primary emphasis was given to the expansion of modern mech-
anized dryland and irrigated crop production. Recently, however, Government
has committed itself to a reduction of inter-regional income and investment
disparities, and has undertaken a comprehensive development program for South
Darfur Province in the western part of the country. This area has long
supported a growing population of migratory pastoralists along with a smaller
number of sedentary cultivators. In recent years, however, a rapid increase in
both the human and livestock populations has resulted in rapidly increasing
settlement and damage from poor land use practices. The proposed Savannah
Development Project would be an integral part of Government's long term
agricultural and rural development program in South Darfur Province; as such
it would seek to introduce appropriate land use practices in parts of the area
by opening up and demarcating stockroutes and by rationalizing settlement of
farmers around established water facilities. The Project would constitute the
first stage of a program which over a period of about twelve years would
institute changes in customary land use practices aimed at ensuring the long
term conservation and improved utilization of soil and pasture resources. It
would also include provision of improved water supplies; expanded veterinary
services; adaptive research and extension; training; and improved crop market-
ing services on a pilot basis.
1.02      This would be the Bank Group's sixth lending operation for agri-
cultural development, in the Sudan since 1956. These previous credits have
totalled some US$137 million and included two Mechanized Farming Projects, two
credits for the Rahad Irrigation Project, and a Southern Region Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project. After some initial delays, implementation of the
second Mechanized Farming Project is proceeding well. The Rahad Project
experienced severe cost over-runs in its initial stages, which required
refinancing of the entire project with the assistance of other international
financing agencies; although implementation was initially slow, reasonable
progress has since then been achieved. Due to the remoteness of the area and
to the difficulties of attracting staff to the Southern Sudan, the Agricul-
tural Rehabilitation Project started slowly but disbursements are expected to
be completed on time. The completion report on the First Mechanized Farming
Project presents some findings which are pertinent to the Project. The main
lessons were the recognition of the need to intensify research efforts in
order to improve crop yields, select alternative crops, and to rationalize
crop rotations. Moreover, organized contact between farmers and research
centers was found to be essential.
1.03      The proposed program is based on findings of development proposals
put forward by Hunting Technical Services, Ltd. (HTS). The first such study
covered the Southern District of South Darfur Province and formed the basis



-2-
for a project financed by the British Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM),
the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development (Abu Dhabi Fund), and the
Government of the Sudan. HTZS also completed a second study of the adjacent
Eastern District of South Darfur Province. This latter study was financed by
UNDP/FAO and its findings and recommendations were similar in concept to those
for the Southern District. A project based on this study was identified and
prepared by RMEA staff and consultants.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited the Sudan in July/August 1976 comprising Messrs. S. Silbiger, P. Sihm,
F.M. Patorni, R. Wood (part-time), C. Collins (part-time) (IDA); and K.
Anthony, J. Moller, and P. Houlahan (part-time) (Consultants). At appraisal,
several changes were made in the Project as proposed by Government. The most
important of these were: (a) the extension of the development period from 4
to 12 years and the adoption of a two-phase approach; (b) deletion of the road
maintenance component and of the equipment needed for the ODM/Abu Dhabi
Project; and (c) inclusion of an extension and training component closely
linked with the adaptive research program. Another important change was the
separation of the livestock marketing component with the suggestion that it be
appraised separately as an independent project; this project was appraised by
an IDA mission in March 1977.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Sudan, the largest country in Africa, covers about 2.5 million km2.
The population is presently estimated at about 16.3 million persons, and
is growing at a rate of 2.2% per year; per capita GNP for 1975 averaged about
US$290 (Annex 1). Much of the country is unoccupied or sparsely populated,
and for the most part there is no population pressure on presently developed
land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or semi-desert,
the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricultural devel-
opment. Conservative estimates are that about 35 million ha (80 million
feddans) is suitable for arable crop production, 60 million ha (140 million
feddans) for rangeland and 30 million ha (70 million feddans) for forests.
Presently only about 20% of the country's arable land potential is utilized.
In addition, the availability of water from the White and Blue Nile rivers has
enabled the country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical
Africa; the total irrigated area is now about 1.5 million ha (3.6 million
feddans), including the 0.8 million ha (1.9 million feddans) developed under
the Gezira irrigation scheme. The proximity of the Sudan to markets in the
Middle East places it in a favorable position for agricultural exports, and
oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly come to consider the Sudan as a
primary future source of agricultural products.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.02      The agricultural sector dominates the economy, providing the
means of livelihood for around 80% of the population; it contributes about



- 3 -
40% of GDP, 95% of exports and over 50% of Government revenues. Cotton
is the dominant cash and export crop, accounting for 56% of all exports; it
is followed by sesame (9%) and groundnuts and gum arabic (each 8%). Exports
of livestock are small, ranging between 2% and 4% of total exports annually.
In the past five years there has been a large increase in wheat and groundnut
production, as well as smaller increases in the output of sorghum, the main
staple crop, and cotton. The expansion in agricultural production has been
largely the result of an increase in the cultivated area under non-cotton
crops. Most of the acreage expansion occurred in the traditional sector and
in the privately owned mechanized farms in the rainfed areas.
Agricultural Research and Extension
2.03      Agricultural research in the Sudan developed mostly in response
to the need for technology appropriate to irrigated cash crop farming, and
thus far only a limited effort has been directed toward traditional agricul-
ture. The Agriculture Research Corporation is mainly responsible for crop
research; it operates five regional research stations and five sub-stations.
Traditionally, irrigated cotton has received the most attention, and past
achievements in this area have been striking. More recently, work has been
undertaken on crop production systems for irrigated mechanized farming,
including research on sorghum, millet, sesame, groundnuts, and a variety of
other crops. The general application of the techniques developed on these
stations is still unclear, however. Even the introduction of such seemingly
simple technological advances as new crop varieties and better seeds may have
limited geographic application. More complicated innovations such as improved
cultural practices or new crop rotations developed at an experimental research
station generally require further adaptation and testing to meet actual
conditions on small farms. Livestock research is mainly the responsibility of
six production research stations, one veterinary research center and five
provincial veterinary laboratories under the direction of the Under Secretary
for Animal Resources in the Ministry of Agriculture. There is currently lack
of agreement on the scope, thrust, integration and location of research in
the Sudan, and the Government is in the process of designing a strategy for
strengthening its national research system. As part of this effort the
Association is assisting Government in preparing a National Research Program
(NRP) covering the western savannah area. It is expected that the prepara-
tion report for the NRP will be submitted to Government by June 1977 for
further consideration.
2.04      Agricultural extension is mainly the responsibility of the Depart-
ments of Agricultural Extension and Education (crops) and Animal Production
(livestock) in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources and,
to a lesser extent, provincial governments and public agricultural production
corporations. The existing bodies are not geared to the transfer of new
knowledge to the thousands of small-scale traditional farmers and pastor-
alists. Consequently, both the federal and provincial extension services are
with a few exceptions (e.g. veterinary vaccination programs in some provinces)
largely ineffective. The public production corporations, with some provincial
and federal assistance, have been the most important means of bringing about
change in the agricultural sector, but their efforts have to date largely been
limited to irrigated schemes.



-4-
Agricultural Credit
2.05      The Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) was established in 1959, and in
its first ten years of operation served as the main source of credit for the
agricultural sector. In these years, however, its lending was almost exclusively
for cotton enterprises, although limited sums were lent for mechanized crops
schemes and for agricultural machinery. By 1969 ABS was forced to sharply
curtail its lending activities due to the almost ESd 4 million in overdue
loans to cotton schemes. Although ABS has since then begun to gradually
expand its lending to the agricultural sector, it has been replaced by the
various agricultural corporations as the primary lender for the major crops.
2.06      ABS does not have the administrative capacity to service small
farmers directly, and it has therefore concentrated on loans for large scale
enterprises. Small farmers are for the most part forced to rely on informal
credit channels to meet their recurring need for short term credit - a need
which is most pressing just prior to the harvest. Loans from traders are the
most common source of funds, and are usually secured by a lien on crops at a
low price. The effective rate of interest on this "sheil" system may exceed
100%. As part of an effort to strengthen ABS and to enable it to undertake
loans to smallholder farmers, IDA is now assisting in the preparation of an
Agricultural Credit Project.
C. Livestock and the Economy (Annex 2)
2.07      The Sudan has an estimated livestock population of about 14 million
cattle, 12.5 million sheep, 10.5 million goats and 3 million camels. The
livestock industry is of significant importance to the Sudanese economy, and
is one of the major sources of food and employment for the population. The
livestock are owned principally by nomadic herdsmen. In recent years, how-
ever, traditional pastoral nomadism has come under pressure from a number
of economic and climatic factors which are gradually bringing about changes
in the nomads' way of life and inducing settlement on an increasing scale.
Even with the increase in settlement, however, the nomads remain primarily
dependent on livestock.
2.08      The expansion of modern livestock production has been very slow.
There are a number of small commercial feedlots in the area of Khartoum; these
units vary from holding areas to intensive fattening operations. There is one
privately owned dairy farm, but dairy development near the three main urban
areas (Omdourman, Khartoum and North Khartoum) is state owned. A number of
parastatal livestock research units such as the Ghazala Gawazat ranch were
formed in earlier years, but these operations have met with only limited
'iccess.



-5-
D. Government's Future Development Plan
2.09      With its underexploited resources of arable land, range, livestock
and water, the Sudan could achieve rapid economic growth and a steady im-
provement in living standards over the next decade. A number of recent
studies have attempted to quantify the growth prospects and requirements in
the medium to long run, and have concluded that a real growth of Gross
Domestic Product of about 6-8 percent per annum seems attainable. The studies
emphasized that the actual performance of the economy will depend on the level
of external capital inflows, on Sudan's ability to generate increased domestic
savings, and on its success in adapting its administrati rc and technical
services to the higher levels of growth and investment. The Six-Year De-
velopment Plan (1977-83), recently adopted by the Sudan Socialist Union,
emphasizes inter alia: the better utilization of existing capacities in all
sectors; the creation of employment opportunities; improvement of project
preparation and implementation capabilities; and self-sufficiency in basic
commodities. To achieve these objectives, the total investment required for
the Six-Year Plan period is estimated to be ESd 2.6 billion (US$6.5 billion),
or an average of ESd 430 million (US$1.1 billion) per annum. It is estimated
that this volume of investment would produce a growth rate of GDP of 7.5%
annually. The Ten Year Basic Agricultural Development Program for the Sudan
prepared by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development would be of
great significance for the country in the realization of these investment
targets. Total cost of the program is estimated at US$5.7 billion, out of
which US$2 billion would be for agricultural development; it forms the core
of agricultural development within the Six-Year Development Plan. To help
implement this agricultural program, twelve Arab Governments on November 1,
1976 signed an agreement establishing an autonomous body, the Arab Authority
for Agricultural Investment and Development (AAAID), to implement the program.
The authorized capital of AAAID has been established at US$510 million, of
which 75 percent has been subscribed (Annex 1).
THE PROJECT AREA
A. General (Annexes 3 and 4)
3.01      The Project would be located in South Darfur Province (Province),
the most westerly province of the Sudan.  The Province's total area of about
160,000 km is divided between four administrative districts: Western, Central,
Southern and Eastern; the provincial capital is Nyala, which presently has
a population of about 60,000 persons.  The Project area would include about
65,000 km or slightly over 1/3 of the Province (Maps, IBRD 12474 and 12475).
The Project would constitute the first phase in a long-term development program
for South Darfur Province. As the benefits of the Project have been calculated
in terms of a two phase program (para 7.02), the Project area is likewise de-
fined in terms of the total area to be covered by the overall program.



- 6 -
3.02      Data from the 1975 aerial census show that a total of about 360,000
people are in the program area during the dry season, half of which are
migratory pastoralists and half sedentary cultivators. About 30,000 of the
pastoralists have a permanent homeland in neighboring areas. Almost all the
150,000 pastoralists (25,000 families) permanently living in the area would be
affected by the program. About 60,000 sedentary farmers (10,000 families)
would also benefit from the program; this would represent one-third of all
such sedentary farmers in the area. The main tribes in the program area are
the Rizeiqat and Ma'aliya. The Rizeiqat is the largest tribe, both in numbers
of people and in animal wealth; the Ma'aliya have a higher percentage of
settled population and are generally less dependent on animal wealth than the
Rizeiqat.
Water Resources
3.03      In the savannah belt, all settlements and stockroutes are located
close to or within easy reach of natural watering points or artificial water
supplies. Since 1947, the Rural Water Corporation (RWC) has constructed a
network of boreholes in the sandy soil areas (qoz). RWC also constructs
hafirs (artifically excavated and constructed reservoirs into which surface
run-off is diverted) which are usually located in the clay soil areas.
Land Use (Annex 4)
3.04      Under the Unregistered Land Act of 1970, nearly all land in the
program area is Government owned. Customary rights of access and use have
evolved over time, and are associated with specific local communities. Access
to these rights are dependent on community membership, usually by kinship
or marriage, although outsiders may be assimilated provided they are accept-
able to the local community. The customary laws governing land tenure vary,
and there is a distinction between rights to hoe, rights to inherit and rights
of access. Under customary law there is free access to the open range.
Livestock owners are liable when damage to crops occurs, but free access to
water and grazing is assured.
Administration (Annex 4)
3.05      South Darfur Province was established in 1974 when the former Darfur
Province was split in two. The 1971 Peoples Local Government Act introduced a
decentralized Government administration in an attempt to involve local people
in decision making. A pyramidal structure of Provincial, District, Town,
Rural, Village and Nomad Councils is now being created on which elected and
Government nominated members sit. The provincial administration is headed by
a Provincial Commissioner (PC) who is head of the Provincial Executive Council
(PEC), head of the Sudan Socialist Union (SSU) in the Province, and who has
ministerial status. Although the District and Rural Councils are ulti-
mately intended to replace the traditional authorities who have historically
regulated all aspects of tribal life, the traditional authorities still play
an important role in the daily affairs of their people. The local admin-
istrations will require significant strengthening of both management



- 7 -
and technical staff before they would be capable of undertaking the successful
management of a major development program.
B. Livestock and Crop Production
Livestock
3.06      There are some 1.3 million cattle, 600,000 sheep and 100,000 goats
in the program area.   These are owned mainly by the migratory pastoralists.
Stocking density varies with season, the highest concentrations occuring
during the winter, at which time migratory herds are grazing along the Bahr el
Arab. The pastoral community represents a way of life successfully adapted to
the environment of the savannah areas. It is the basis for organizing product-
ion, consumption and capital accumulation within the family. However, the
traditional pastoral system has come under pressure from a number of economic
and climatic factors which are inducing settlement on an increasing scale.
These new settlements have in turn put added stress on limited water resources
and have often blocked access to the stockroutes so essential to the free
migration of the pastoralists.
Crop Production
3.07      Rainfed crop production is largely confined to the sandy soils which
are easily worked and allow extensive areas to be cultivated by hand. Bulrush
millet is the prime staple, occupying around two-thirds of the annual cropped
area; the balance is planted almost entirely to groundnuts. The area is
generally self-sufficient in staple foods and produces substantial exports of
groundnuts and a minor surplus of sesame. Soils are usually cultivated
for 4-5 years and then allowed to revert to natural fallow for fifteen years
or more (in areas characterized by land pressure the fallow period may only
be four years); continuous cultivation is sometimes practiced. An average
family of six persons cultivates about 5 ha with hand tools. Millet yields
are low because local varieties are inefficient producers of grain and there
is significant weed competition; groundnut yields are generally good. The gum
arabic tree is an important naturally occuring cash crop.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over six years attempt to reverse the trend
of ecological degradation within the Project area. It would provide measures
for improving the way of life of a large proportion of the people in the
area by allowing a more efficient utilization of land resources. In parti-
cular, under the Project a settlement program would be initiated with the dual
purpose of opening up presently blocked stockroutes and of increasing crop
production. The opening up of stockroutes is vital for the annual migration
of the transhumant families and their livestock, and the rationalization of



-8-
local land use patterns in order to facilitate this migration would be one
of the principal goals of the settlement concept. The Project would also
aim at building up a development oriented local administration by helping
to establish a Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) which, would
implement the Project and the ODM/Abu Dhabi Project, which is to be carried
out in an adjacent area. Specifically the Project would provide for:
(a)  additional staff for the WSDC;
(b)  a settlement and crop production program which would
include extension services, program specific adaptive
research, and a pilot crop marketing scheme;
(c)  range management and livestock development programs
including veterinary services, livestock-related
adaptive research, and non-formal education of live-
stock producers;
(d)  improved maintenance, operation and further development
of water facilities;
(e)  Project monitoring and evaluation;
(f)  technical assistance for the Gum Arabic and Oil
Seeds companies;
(g)  a human health survey; and
(h)  buildings, construction, equipment, housing and staff
and all operating costs for the above categories.
The WSDC would have overall responsibility for the organization and implemen-
tation of the Project. The basic assumptions used in the development of the
various Project components are described in Annex 5.
B. Detailed Features
Project Management
4.02      The WSDC would be given overall responsibility for the implementa-
tion of the proposed IDA Project (para 5.01). At negotiations Government
presented to the Association a draft Order of Establishment for the WSDC which
was satisfactory to the Association. It would be a condition of credit
effectiveness that the WSDC had been established. The Project would pro-
vide a large number of staff for the WSDC, which would complement those
staff to be provided under the ODM Project. Some 200 professional and 700
supporting staff would be provided, in addition to a limited number of staff
for the Civil Works Division (Annex 13, Table 4).



-9-
Settlement and Crop Production (Annex 6)
4.03      A settlement program would be initiated under the Project in order
to help relieve population pressure in already settled areas and to safeguard
the north-south migratory stockroutes against encroaching cultivation. This
settlement would not create land pressure problems in later years, as it is
estimated that even at the end of a second phase settlement program, only 20%
of the available land would be under cultivation. Thirty new settlements
of up to 15,000 ha of cropping area each would be established around existing
wateryards. 1/ Some of these wateryards have been opened, and consequently
people are already moving into the surrounding area; the emphasis in these
settlements would be on the restriction of unauthorized migration into the
area, and on the introduction of improved farming methods. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that no further permanent settlement in any area
would be permitted except as authorized by WSDC, in consultation with the
Association and on the basis of satisfactory settler selection criteria. An
early task of the WSDC would be to complete the designs for such settlement
area. Other wateryards would not be opened until the Land Management Division
of the WSDC had prepared a plan for the settlement process; the initial
emphasis in these cases would be on settler selection and design of the
settlement area. An aerial survey of the developmemt area would be made
during the first year of implementation. As far as possible settlements would
be occupied by settlers from a single community, with the selection of sett-
lers for the as yet unopened wateryards the responsibility of both the pro-
vincial administration and traditional tribal authorities. The areas around
the wateryards would be surveyed and divided on average into farms of between
20 and 30 ha. In addition to the cropping areas, each settlement unit would
contain 2,500 ha of communal grazing. It is estimated that by the end of the
Project investment period about 2,500 farmers would have been settled, 50,000
to 75,000 ha of land allocated, and about 3,500 ha cropped. (At full de-
velopment these 2,500 farmers would cultivate an area of about 16,000 ha.)
Most families would not be able to grow crops during the season they are
moved, and crop production in the second year of settlement may be insuffi-
cient to meet the family needs. Supplementary food rations would therefore
need to be provided for at least two years. The World Food Program has
indicated that it would look favorably upon a request for assistance, and
under a standard WFP agreement would supply food free to the port of entry.
Thereafter, it would pay 50% of internal transport and storage costs. Gov-
ernment would pay for the balance and provide local staff and these Government
expenditures have been included in Project cost. Pursuant to informal as-
surances obtained at negotiations, Government will make the necessary
arrangements with the World Food Program to obtain supplementary food for the
settlers.
4.04      The Land Management Unit located at Ghazala Gawazat would have
responsibility for the settlement program. The settlers would receive long
term land use rights containing covenants for a suitable cropping system.
1/   Usualiy consisting of a fully equipped borehole, an elevated reservoir
(50 m ), fountains for the human population and metal watering troughs
for animals; these are located in a fenced area of 3,000 to 4,000 m.



- 10 -
The terms, conditions, and duration of land use rights would be specified so
as to provide settlers with security of tenure, and assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations. 1/ These land use rights, their terms and condi-
tions would be recorded at a land registry to be established at Nyala; assur-
ances that this land registry would be established by September 1, 1978 were
obtained at negotiations. The rate at which the above measures could be intro-
duced would depend on the extent to which local and traditional institutions
could be mobilized. A Sudanese sociologist, who is well informed about the
local conditions and habits of social groups would be employed to assist the
Land Management Unit staff in developing settlement plans and in maintaining
a permanent dialogue between elders, the local authorities, the WSDC and the
professional field teams implementing the settlement program.
4.05      Extension.  Extension advice would be disseminated to farmers
through Nucleus Development Centers (NDC) to be sited at El Heid, (to serve
the Rizeiqat Qoz), Mazroub (to serve Ma'aliya Qoz) and Abu Matariq (to serve
the Baggara Land System). Control and supervision of extension and the
Nucleus Development Centers would be provided from Ghazala Gawazat. Each NDC
would be directed by a Senior Extension Officer. One Extension Officer would
be provided for every three settlements, and this officer would be assisted by
Extension Assistants, one of whom would be given responsibility for each
settlement. Additional Extension Assistants would be provided for extension
work in areas from which the new settlers have moved. Each NDC would contain
field trial and demonstration areas, and a small training school for farmers.
Extension staff would receive initial training at Ghazala Gawazat and would
receive in-service training at regular intervals. Extension policy and pro-
grams would be drawn up by the Senior Agronomist (Extension) at Ghazala
Gawazat in consultation with the Senior Extension Officers.
4.06      Research.  Program specific adaptive research and field trials would
be an essential part of the initial development program in crop production,
and the Project research program would be closely coordinated with that to be
carried out under the ODM/Abu-Dhabi project. Its objective would be to
provide the essential support required for adaptive crop research in the
Project area and to guide, instruct and monitor the experimentation and
demonstration that would be carried out on 6 Project related NDC's and 3
range stations. Adaptive research would be kept to the minimum and would
support only strictly Project related requirements. The adaptive research
program would in particular concentrate on selection of improved varieties
of currently grown crops for distribution to farmers, the identification
of possible new crops suited to local conditions, the testing and adaption of
improved crop production techniques for introduction in the area, and the
development of better farming systems. High priority would be given to this
adaptive research in order that a proven package of locally adapted technology
would be available for dissemination by the extension staff when needed by the
farmers. A Crop Experimental Section would be set up at Ghazala Gawazat with
1/   Settlers would initially have full rights to only half of the farm
area - usually 10-15 ha (Annex 5).



- 11 -
facilities for field experimentation and for trials at the NDC's on sites
typical of the different environments found in the program area. The trials
would initially concentrate on: (a) rapid screening of millet varieties and
comparative trials of those showing promise; (b) similar screening and testing
of other possible crop varieties with particular emphasis on forage legumes;
(c) testing of ox-drawn implements suitable for local manufacturers; (d) eval-
uation of methods for control of weeds including simple low cost chemical
control; (e) testing of alternative crop rotations and cultivation systems for
the sandy soils; (f) examination of ways to develop the naga'a soils, cultiva-
tion of which could reduce pressure on the Baggara land system. There would
be a continuous two-way flow of information through the extension service; it
would both provide the farmers with advice on improved methods of crop produc-
tion and keep the research staff informed on the farmers' adaptive research
needs and any problems associated with the acceptance of its recommendations.
Because of the urgency for developing and testing of new methods and the need
for close coordination, program-specific adaptive research is advocated. It
is however recognized that the establishment of a more far-reaching research
program for the savannah region (para 2.03) under a National Research Program
(NRP) would necessitate some accommodation between Project research and the
larger national effort. When the NRP has been agreed and is equipped to
become fully operational, the research related functional and organizational
responsibilities of the Savannah Development Project and of the NRP will be
reviewed with a view to assigning to the latter overall responsibility for
supporting and monitoring all research in the savannah areas. The timing
for this transfer between the NRP and the WSDC would be a matter for mutual
consultation at that time in the light of the implementation schedule of
both programs. The Association and other financing agencies would be given
an opportunity to comment on the precise proposals made at that time. The
above understandings are contained and recorded in the Agreed Minutes of
Negotiations dated April 8, 1977.
4.07      Pilot Crop Marketing Scheme.  Although the marketing system now
operating in the area is reasonably satisfactory, due to the difficulties in
collecting produce from large numbers of widely scattered farmers and the high
transport costs involved, returns to the farmers are relatively low. The
Marketing Division of the WSDC would therefore finance and administer a small
pilot crop marketing scheme to facilitate the farmgate to market flow of
crops. It would establish a small number (about 7) of Bonded Storage Areas
(BSA) in the producing areas - most probably in the new settlement villages.
The Marketing Division would operate a small revolving fund to purchase crops
coming to the BSA and would pay a proportion (perhaps 20 percent) of the local
minimum price upon delivery. The crops in the BSA would be sold by auction
to merchants or agents as at other markets, and the difference between the
realized price (less a nominal charge for storage) and the advance would be
paid to the producer. Assurances that such a small pilot scheme would be
started by the WSDC were obtained at negotiations.
Livestock Development (Annex 7)
4.08      The Project would seek to initiate modernized animal production in
the program area by assisting the predominantly nomadic livestock owners



- 12 -
to overcome present constraints to improve productivity; major constraints
include: blockage of traditional migratory stockroutes and encroachment of
cultivation, overstocking of pastures, lack of permanent stock water, animal
diseases and an inadequate marketing system. It would also aim at achieving
maximum involvement of the pastoralists through the establishment of a Live-
stock Development Committee of elected members representing the livestock
producers in the area; this Committee would act as a link between the pastora-
lists, the Project management and the local administration. Provision would
be made under the Order establishing the WSDC that such a Committee would be
established within the first year of Project development. The major compon-
ents of the livestock development program would include (a) data collection, a
nonformal education program and training; (b) adaptive research; (c) improved
veterinary services; and (d) establishment of a breeding herd.
4.09      Data Collection, Non-Formal Education and Training.  The Project
would initiate collection of data on migratory and sedentary livestock.
With the agreement of the pastoralists, the Project staff would establish a
master plan for range management in the various land systems of the program
area. Non-formal education of elders would be undertaken in connection with
data gathering during the dry season and would aim at explaining the prin-
ciples of range management, animal husbandry, animal health, and marketing of
surplus stock. Non-formal education of young stockmen would consist of
annual courses of 90 days duration to be given at a Project Training Center at
Ghazala Gawazat. The Project would also establish a range school at Ghazala
Gawazat which would conduct a 12 month course for 15 agricultural graduates
each year, and would award fellowships for overseas training for a degree in
range management. This education and training program would be coordinated
with the activities of three proposed Integrated Rural Education Centers to
be established in the area under the IDA financed Second Education Project.
4.10      Adaptive Research.  The adaptive livestock research program to be
instituted by the Project would concentrate on: (a) herd monitoring after the
introduction of certain improved techniques; (b) grass and crop residue
fattening trials; and (c) investigations into the possibilities of the integra-
tion of crop and livestock production within the farming system. A total of
11 months of consultant services would be provided to allow for the services
of an internationally recruited livestock research scientist to assist in
planning and supervising the research program. Collaboration with the NRP
when it becomes fully operational (para 4.06) and other international live-
stock research organizations would be sought for these and other Project
related livestock activities and in particular for the integration of crops
and livestock production.
4.11      Veterinary Services.  The Project would expand veterinary services
tn the program area. Six veterinary dispensaries and three mobile vaccination
units would be provided for in the first two years of the Project; also,
the District veterinary headquarters in Ed Da'ein would be expanded to include
a diagnostic unit. Vehicles and housing would be provided for Project staff.
Drugs, chemicals and equipment for the control of parasites would be made
available for sale to the livestock owners who would be instructed in their



- 13 -
proper utilization. The day-to-day implementation of this component would
be the responsibility of the WSDC's District Veterinary Officer at Ed Da'ein
who would cooperate and coordinate his activities with the Livestock Division
at Ghazala Gawazat; however, on technical matters he would be responsible to
the Veterinary Services Division of the Animal Resources Department of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources in Khartoum.
4.12      Establishment of a Breeding Herd.  The Livestock Division would
assume responsibility for the existing herd of cattle at Ghazala Gawazat
and would initially cull heavily to relieve the present pressure on the graz-
ing blocks. It is expected that towards the end of the Project, two small
breeding herds of about 100 cows each (Kenana and Butana cattle respectively)
would be established from which bulls would be sold to the producers.
Water Facilities (Annex 8)
4.13      Hafirs.  About 20 hafirs would be constructed by the Civil Works
Division of the WSDC; provision would also be made for the rehabilitation
of about 20 existing hafirs which have become inoperative. Hafirs would be
constructed in those areas where groundwater is not available and where soil
conditions are favorable (i.e., where there are impervious soils). Sites
for the hafirs would be located by Civil Works Division Engineers with the
assistance of professionals from the Range Division so that they would have
the best locations from an engineering point of view and at the same time
be located in accordance with good range management practice.
4.14      Wateryards.  Wateryards are common focal settlement points in the
sandy soil regions. In order to facilitate the Project settlement program
(para 4.03), three wateryards would be opened in new settlement areas.
These facilities would be constructed by the Rural Water Corporation (RWC)
and would be supervised by the Civil Works Division. In each instance
provision would be made for: installation of a pump and engine; erection of
an elevated water reservoir; installation of piping and valves; a pump house;
fencing; installation of a water meter; disinfection of the well, piping and
reservoir.
4.15      Wateryard Maintenance and Operation.  A Wateryard Division would be
created within the WSDC in order to strengthen and improve the maintenance of
all wateryards in South Darfur Province. The division would be responsible
for the operation of wateryards with the view of making them self-supporting
during the Project period. A water charge of bSd 0.26 (US$0.65) per m of
water would be required to cover the 3total costs. This would represent an
increase of bSd 0.15 (US$0.38) per m of water or 136% as compared to the
present charge. Since it was felt that such a sizeable increase was beyond
what the new settlers woin1d be willing and able to pay, at this stage only
ESd 0.21 (US$0.53) per m was considered recoverable, and this rate was used
in calculating revenues from the wateryards. This charge would cover the
costs of replacement of vehicles, office equipment, spare parts, tools, well
pumps, engines and water meters and all operating costs. Items which were not



- 14 -
included (e.g. buildings, wells, reservoirs, etc.) have a long life and
normally would not need replacement during the lifetime of the Project. On
completion of the Project, and once the Wateryard Division becomes a viable
and an efficient organization, it could be transferred with its plant, houses,
equipment, vehicles, and staff to the appropriate Government organization.
Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that maintenance
and operating costs for the wateryards would be recovered to the fullest
extent possible by establishing an appropriate rate for water charges which
would be reviewed at regular intervals not exceeding 12 months with Government
during Project supervision and adjusted as necessary; all funds collected by
WSDC for water charges would be used exclusively for maintenance and operating
costs of wateryards.
Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 9)
4.16      A monitoring and evaluation unit would be established in the Min-
istry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources in the first year of Project
implementation to collect and evaluate data and other information on the
progress of the Project; this unit would serve both the proposed Project and
the ODM/Abu Dhabi project in the Southern District. The monitoring program
would enable the Project to be gradually adjusted in the light of changing
circumstances and would help to ensture its successful implementation. The
unit would collect data on which to base the decisions regarding the timing
and rate of implementation of a possible second phase project. The unit
would have a small permanent staff made up of an experienced Senior Agricul-
tural Economist and a Senior Sociologist; this staff would be assisted by
two internationally recruited consultants - an Agricultural Economist and a
Sociologist. If additional special expertise should be required, consultants
would be engaged for short periods.
Technical Assistance for Marketing Companies (Annex 10)
4.17      Technical assistance would be provided under the Project to assist
the Gum Arabic Company and the Sudan Oilseeds Company to improve their mar-
keting systems and to explore the possibilities of opening new export markets
for both gum arabic and groundnuts. Although both of these companies have
been established for 6-7 years, they are relatively inexperienced and require
assistance to allow them to expand their buying facilities, develop marketing
systems, and to evaluate the possibilities of undertaking further processing
staff under a consultancy arrangement. A marketing specialist would be
required for each company for a period of two years both to develop marketing
procedures and to train local staff. A third specialist would be recruited
to assist both companies for two years in developing expanded export markets.
Terms of reference for these staff would be drawn up by Government.
Human Health Survey (Annex 11)
4.18      Endemic tropical diseases, particularly Malaria and Bilharzia, are a
major problem in the program area. The lack of medical facilities and avail-
able staff and a temporary shortage of drugs constitute serious drawbacks to
the efficient control of diseases. Government has agreed to include specific



- 15 -
requirements for the program area within its proposed National Health Care
Program. However, the exact nature and the scope of the human health care
needs of the people living in the program area have not as yet been deter-
mined. Therefore, funds (US$100,000) have been included under the Project
for a health survey of the area, and for an evaluation of health priorities.
Government would prepare by September 1, 1978 terms of reference for the
study and a tentative list of research institutions which might undertake
this work.
C. Project Costs (Annex 12)
4.19      Total Project cost is estimated at bSd 15.3 million (US$38.2 mil-
lion) of which about US$18.5 million or about 48% would represent foreign
exchange requirements. Capital costs are estimated at about ISd6.3 million
(US$15.8 mllion) or about 41% and operating costs at about ISd9.0 million
(US$22.4 million) or about 59%.  Total Project cost is detailed below:.
Foreign
Exchange
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total        %
------Sd  000--         ------OUS$ '000-----
Project Management         1,144    732   1,876  2,860   1,830   4,690   39
Settlement and Crops       1,593  1,357   2,950  3,983   3,393   7,376   46
Livestock                  1,496  1,275   2,771  3,740   3,188   6,928   46
Water Facilities           1,027  1,112   2,139  2,568   2,780   5,348   52
Monitoring and Evaluation   216    481       697    540   1,203   1,743   69
Technical Assistance for
Marketing Companies         40    170      210    100      425     525   81
Health Survey                -        40      40    -        100     100  100
Total Base Cost       5,516  5,167  10,683 13,791  12,919  26,710   48
Physical Contingencies       552    516   1,068  1,379   1,290   2,669   48
Price Contingencies        1,839  1,705   3,544  4,598   4,263   8,861   48
Total Contingencies  2,391  2,221   4,612  5,977   5,553  11,530   48
Total Project Cost   7.907  7,388  15,295 19,768  18,472  38,240   48
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing as of March 1977.  A physical
contingency of 10% has been included. In addition price contingencies total-
ling 33% have been included to allow for expected increases for local and
foreign costs beyond the date of baseline cost estimates (Annex 12). Price
contingencies are based on estimated levels of price increases for Project
items in the Sudan. Import taxes and duties on Project goods and taxes on
local salaries are estimated at ESd 2.4 million (US$6.0 million) and have been
included. Fees for consultant services and salaries of internationally re-
cruited staff would be exempt from taxes. Costs were also estimated for a
possible second phase project; these would amount to about lSd 12.6 million



- 16 -
(US$32 million) with an estimated foreign exchange component of 40%. At
negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that after completion of
the Project it would take all such measures, determined in consultation with
the Association and on the basis of the information collected by the Moni-
toring and Evaluation Unit, as shall be required to make full economic and
productive use of investments included in the Project. Furthermore Government
gave assurances contained in a supplementary letter that it will go on to
implement further stages in the agricultural development of the Eastern
District of South Darfur Province considering the objectives and investments
estimated for the development program's second phase.
D. Financing (Annex 13)
4.20      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$ Million                %         x
IDA                            17.0                     45       53
Saudi Fund                      8.5                     22       26
Government                      6.7                     17       21
Sub-total                     32.2                     84      100
Taxes and Duties                6.0                     16
Total                         38.2                    100
The proposed IDA credit of US$17 million would be on standard terms to
Government and finance about 45% of total Project cost including taxes and
duties. This would cover about US$12.0 million or 65% of the total foreign
exchange costs and about US$5.0 million or about 25% of local costs. The
Saudi Fund for Development (SFD) would contribute 30 million Riyals (about
US$8.5 million); this would finance about US$6.5 million or 35% of the foreign
exchange costs and about US$2.0 million or 10% of local costs. This contri-
bution would cover about 22% of total Project costs including taxes and
duties. Together SFD and IDA would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs and
35% of local costs, or 67% of total Project cost including taxes and duties
(79% excluding taxes and duties); furthermore SFD and IDA would finance 100%
of capital and about 43% of operating costs including taxes and duties, or
100% and 64% excluding taxes and duties. The remaining amount of operating
costs US$12.7 million would be contributed by Government; this would be
offset to the extent that Project costs include about US$6 million in taxes
and duties. The SFD, IDA and Government contributions would be chanelled
directly by Government on a grant basis to the WSDC, which would establish
a separate bank account for the Project. Government would prepare and sign
a Subsidiary Agreement (Agreement) satisfactory to the Association with WSDC
so as to ensure that the purpose of the Credit will be accomplished by WSDC.
The signing of this Agreement between Government and WSDC would be a condition
of credit effectiveness. Within three months of credit effectiveness Govern-
ment would deposit into the WSDC's account an initial sum of 1Sd 400,000



- 17 -
for start-up expenditures. The WSDC would prepare an annual work plan and
budget three months in advance of the beginning of each fiscal year which,
after approval by the Board of the WSDC and (in the final stages) by the
Minister of Agriculture, would be forwarded to IDA and SFD for review and
comment. Based on the approved work plan and budget, at the beginning of
every six-month period, or earlier if necessary, Government would credit the
WSDC's bank account with the funds required by it for the next six months.
Funds required for technical assistance to the Oil Seeds and Gum Arabic
companies would be chanelled directly to these two companies. Funds required
for monitoring and evaluation would be transferred by Government to the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources. Assurances that the
above procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.
E. Procurement 1/
4.21      Procurement of earth moving equipment (US$0.5 million), generator
sets (US$90,000), 15 farm tractors (US$180,000) as well as other farm equip-
ment and supplies (US$0.5 million) in orders over US$50,000 would be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB) according to IDA guidelines; ICB
would total an estimated ESdO.5 million (US$1.3 million) or about 8% of the
IDA Credit. Orders would be bulked to the maximum extent possible. The
construction of 295 buildings, workshops, training facilities and other
structures which due to their dispersed locations would not attract ICB would
be subject to local competitive bidding, under Government procedures which are
acceptable to IDA, by local building contractors and the Corporation for
Public Buildings and Works. In those cases where the buildings would be in
localities so remote that no reasonable bids would be received, the WSDC's
Civil Works Division would proceed on a force account basis. In both cases
the WSDC should consult the Ministry of Construction and Public Works and if
needed request their services. Building construction would be scheduled so
that completion of the houses is the first priority. Construction of the
other buildings could proceed at the same time as that of the houses, but it
should not interfere with the timely completion of the residences, since they
are the key to obtaining competent professional personnel on a timely basis.
Building construction contracts should stipulate that the houses have first
priority. The total amount of local competitive bidding is estimated at about
ESd 2.3 million (US$6 million). Internationally recruited staff (US$2.6 mil-
lion) required for technical assistance would be selected in accordance with
IDA guidelines. The WSDC's Procurement Division would be responsible for the
preparation of all contract documents and evaluation of bids, and Government
-would promptly grant the WSDC on request the necessary import licenses and
foreign exchange for Project requirements. Government would also expedite all
customs clearances and other formalities. Assurances that the above procure-
ment procedures would be followed were obtained at negotiations.
1/   Amounts are expressed without contingencies.



- 18 -
F. Disbursement (Annex 13)
4.22      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over about six years
on the basis of:
(a) 86% of the total costs of building and construction
(US$6.4 million);
(b) 100% of the foreign and 80% of the local expenditures
for equipment and supplies (US$3.0 million);
(c) 100% of the foreign and 80% of local expenditures for
vehicle operating costs (US$2.4 million);
(d) 100% of total cost of internationally recruited staff
(US$2.6 million);
(e) 15% of total cost of local salaries (US$1.1 million); and
(f) an unallocated amount of US$1.5 million representing
contingencies on the above categories and transferable
to them as required.
Disbursement against (a) (b) and (d) would be fully documented. Disbursement
against (c) and (e) would be made against statements of expenditure certified
by the Executive Director and Financial Controller, the documentation for
which would not be submitted for review; such documents would be retained by
the Borrower and would be available for inspection by IDA in the course of
normal supervision missions. Any funds remaining in the Credit account upon
completion of the Project would be available for reallocation for financing
of supplementary expenditures, subject to the approval of IDA. An estimated
disbursement schedule as well as a Project implementation schedule are given
in Annex 13.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.23      An appropriate accounting system would be established for the WSDC
by the Administrative and Finance Division; this would include the establish-
ment of separate Project accounts for both the ODM/Abu Dhabi project and the
proposed IDA Project. Provision has been included under the ODM/Abu Dhabi
project for employment of an internationally recruited Financial Controller,
who would be primarily responsible for ensuring that these accounts were
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the various financing agencies
supporting both projects.  Government institutions and corporations as well as
other World Bank financed projects are currently subject to annual audit by
the Auditor General's office, which performs this work in a competent manner.
Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that certified
copies of the audited annual accounts of the WSDC would be furnished to IDA



- 19 -
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The Ministry of
Agriculture and the Oil Seeds and Gum Arabic companies would establish special
accounts reflecting funds received and expenditures made under the Project;
assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
H. Environmental Impact
4.24      The proposed strategy of the program rests on the assumption
that it is only by gradual amelioration of conditions within the existing
land use system that major environmental deterioration and human suffering
can be avoided in the long term, while at the same time making possible
the sustained increase in agricultural and livestock production. In an effort
to arrest and reverse the pervasive ecological degradation in the program
area, the Project would initiate improved land management practices in both
crop and range areas, restrictions on livestock numbers, water regulation
and protection measures, disease control through both veterinary and human
health programs, training of livestock owners in improved animal husbandry
techniques, and range management practices. None of the proposed measures
would have an adverse environmental impact and, if successful, they could be
replicated in other parts of the country with similar environmental problems.
In order to ensure that the above measures would not be jeopardized by activi-
ties which might not be in accord with the proposed development program,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that no further development in the
Project area would be carried out which might significantly and adversely
affect the pattern of land utilization except after due consideration among
Government, the Association and WSDC.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (Annex 15)
5.01      The Sudan Government has determined that a Western Savannah Develop-
ment Corporation (WSDC) should be established which would have overall respon-
sibility for the organization and implementation of both the proposed Project
and the ODM/Abu Dhabi project. It believes that such a corporation would be
the most efficient means of carrying out the proposed development projects,
and of improving the administration of the Province over the long term. It
also believes that the WSDC's adaptability and its inbuilt responsiveness to
the prevailing political and administrative environment would allow it to
successfully undertake a large and extremely complex task. The WSDC would be
established under the Public Sector Corporations Act of 1976 (See Annex 15,
Appendix 1). It would be headed by a Board of Directors, .with the Provincial
Commissioner acting as Chairman. The Director General would serve as Secre-
tary to the Board; other members would include: the appropriate Assistant
Commissioners (including the executives of the Rural Councils in the Project
area), local leaders, and a representative from the Ministries of Finance and
National Economy, Planning and Agriculture, Farmers Union and Livestock Devel-
opment Union, Members of the Corporation and the Sudan Feminist Union. WSDC
Headquarters would be established at Nyala, although various staff would be



- 20 -
located elsewhere in the Province according to where they would be utilized
most efficiently.  A small office would be established in Khartoum to accel-
erate procurement of goods and services under the Project.  At negotiations
Government clarified the status, precise functions and power of the WSDC and
its relationship to: (a) the ODM/Abu Dhabi Fund financed project in South
Darfur Province; (b) the Provincial Government and its Administration; (c) the
Ministries of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources, People Local Govern-
ment, Public Administration and Administrative Reform, Health, Education and
Construction; (d) the Rural Water and Agricultural Research Corporations; (e)
the Gum Arabic and Sudan Oil Seeds companies; and (f) other institutions which
would possibly be involved in the Project's implementation. Furthermore,
Government presented the Association at negotiations wixith the draft Order of
Establishment for WSDC which was satisfactory to the Association.
5.02      The WSDC would be managed by a Director General  and would have (at
full development) some nine operating divisions (Chart, World Bank 16579).
Some of these Divisions would report directly to the Director General's office
at Nyala, and others would report to the Deputy Director General's office
located at Ghazala Gawazat. All staff employed by the WSDC would be financed
under either the ODM/Abu Dhabi project or the IDA Project. Most of the local
staff would be seconded to the WSDC by the Ministry of Agriculture; others
would be recruited directly. Before making an appointment to the position of
the Director General of the WSDC the Government would provide the Association
with an opportunity to review and comment on the qualifications and experience
of the person it proposes to appoint. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations. The WSDC would require some 200 professionals and 700 sup-
porting staff for the Project. About 10 to 15% of the professional and about
20% of the supporting staff would come from existing Government institutions
in the area. One of the major difficulties which the Project could encounter
would be to attract adequate staff to the Project area, which is remote from
Khartoum and from the eastern provinces of the country; the latter are more
developed and offer numerous opportunities for employment for some categories
of staff which would be required under the Project. This problem would be
partially overcome by paying all staff at the wage levels prevailing in cor-
porations in the Sudan operating predominantly on commercial principles (the
"commercial corporations"); this salary level would be provided for in the
WSDC's Order of Establishment. In addition, for certain posts, special allow-
ances (housing, furniture, travel, etc.) would be paid. This salary scale was
proposed by Government and would be effective immediately upon establishment
of the WSDC in order to ensure that the corporation would be able to attract
the necessary highly qualified staff. These salary levels and terms of
service would apply to all local staff either seconded (all secondments would
be for a period of at least 5-6 years) or recruited directly by the WSDC. The
WSDC would prepare a plan for staffing as needed (Annex 13).
5.03      Provision would be made under both the ODM/Abu Dhabi project and
the Project for the international recruitment of several key staff for the
WSDC. Seventeen such positions have been identified, eight of which would be
financed under the Project and nine under the ODM/Abu Dhabi project. Terms



- 21 -
of reference for the Project staff are given in Annex 15, Appendix 2. 1/
These staff would be phased out from in-line executive posts either com-
pletely or into advisory posts during the life of the Project. Selection
for replacement of staff inernationally recruited and training of local
staff would be planned by WSDC. The development of local management capa-
bility would be an important part of the Project, and internationally re-
cruited staff would be expected to train local staff to take over their
roles.
5.04      The WSDC's main functions would be to implement both the  Project
and the ODM/Abu Dhabi project, but could also be given responsibility for
future development projects. It would not, however, attempt to control all
aspects of development in the relevant project areas. For example, the WSDC
would not attempt to direct the development plans of ministries such as
Education and Health in the program area, although close coordination of the
activities of the various institutions would be sought. Particular care was
taken to ensure that the WSDC would not become another permanent fixture in
the Government bureaucracy; it was agreed that on completion of the Project,
and once each functional division of the WSDC had become successfully establi-
shed and a certain expertise gained, this division, together with its staff,
could be transferred to the Provincial institution with authority in that
area.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, AND FINANCIAL BENEFITS
A. Crops (Annexes 16 and 17)
Yields and Output
6.01      Total incremental output 2/ was based on a comparison of millet and
groundnut yields in the settlement areas under a "Without Program" and a "With
P?rogram" situation:
Without Program                 With Program
Y I  Y 10  Y 20  Y 30           Y 1 Y 10  Y 20  Y 30
             ----___________-kg/ha-----------------
14illet               400  400   310   240            400  440   720   1,100
Groundnuts            900  900   700   540            900  950 1,190   1,210
11   All internationally recruited staff financed under the Project would be
recruited before December 31, 1978 except the Senior Weed Specialist who
would be recruited before December 31, 1979.
2/   Incremental output was calculated on the basis of the expected output
from Phases I and II combined. This approach was considered appropriate
as initial investments in Project related infrastructure, research,
management and organization, veterinary services, etc. would be high,
and results would materialize only gradually over a longer period of
time.



- 22
Crop yields and production are detailed in Annexes 5 and 6. With the program,
improved varieties and information on better farming methods would be made
available to the settlers in the program area (para 4.06); it was estimated
that over 30 years yields of millet and groundnuts would gradually increase
from 400 kg/ha and 900 kg/ha to 1,100 kg/ha and 1,210 kg/ha respectively.
6.02      At full development (about year 14 for millet and year 30 for
groundnuts) total annual production would be about 15,000 tons of millet and
50,000 tons of unshelled groundnuts. In the "Without Program" situation no
groundnuts would be produced as millet production needed for subsistence
would utilize nearly all the land available for agriculture. At full develop-
ment (around year 22) about 10,000 settlers would produce annually around
4,500 tons of gum arabic, as compared to about 1,100 tons without the program.
It was assumed that the present yield per tree of 0.22 kg would not increase
due to the program. However, the program would encourage organized plantation
tree planting combined with crop rotation on settlement farms; consequently a
family would be able to tap about three times as many trees annually than is
presently the case (about 2,000 as compared with 600 previously).
Value of Incremental Production
6.03      The total annual incremental crop production at full development
would be about 50,000 tons of unshelled groundnuts and 3,400 tons of gum
arabic; this production would be valued at estimated March 1977 prices
(Annex 19, Tables 7 and 8) at about InSd 3.4 million (US$8.5 million). The
value of crop production foregone on the small areas which would be converted
to stockroutes would be negligible.
Markets and Prices (Annex 16)
6.04      Throughout the western savannah, crop marketing is entirely financed
and managed by the private sector. This privately organized informal infra-
structure functions fairly efficiently, and provides all services vital to the
system's operation including credit, market intelligence, insurance and trans-
port. Government intervention in the marketing system is limited to control
of the larger local markets to assist them with the collection of taxes and to
the setting of floor prices (minimum buying prices) for groundnuts and gum
arabic. Mixed private/Government marketing companies (Sudan Oil Seeds Com-
pany, Gum Arabic Company, etc.) help maintain these prices through the direct
purchase of the crops at the line-of-rail. The Marketing Division in the WSDC
would attempt to improve this situation through the introduction of a small
pilot bonded storage scheme in the settlement areas which would be designed to
facilitate the movement of groundnuts between the farm and the line-of-rail.
The negligible incremental millet output from the program would be marketed
locally. All incremental groundnut and gum arabic production would be ex-
ported. The incremental exports of groundnuts would represent about 10% of
current exports from the Sudan and would have a negligible impact on world
market prices. The incremental natural gum arabic production of about 3,400
tons per annum would represent roughly 10% of recent average annual exports
from the Sudan or about 0.2% of the world trade in natural and synthetic



- 23 -
gums. It is difficult to assess future demand for natural gum arabic on the
major world markets; the Sudan however occupies a privileged position as its
gum is of the best quality presently available, and demand for this product is
expected to remain stable.
B. Livestock
Production
6.05      The program is expected to increase the number of cattle marketed
in South Darfur Province. This increase would be attributable to an increase
in the total offtake combined with a gradual shift of the age distribution
towards younger animals. Projections have been made for cattle only, because
the program's impact on the population of sheep and goats in the program area
(about 5% of total population in terms of livestock units) would be initially
small. Key statistics for livestock marketed in the program area are given
below:
Without Program                  With Program
Y1    Y10    Y30               Y1    Y1O    Y30
---------------0OO head--------------
Total Herd            1,300  1,200    900              1,300  1,600   2,100
Annual Sales /1           60     50     40                60      90     160
/1   Livestock units.
At full development (year 19), total incremental marketed production would be
about 120,000 head of cattle (livestock units) annually. These estimates are
based on available statistics for the program area and on experience gained
in similar areas elsewhere in East Africa. Basic parameters which were
used for estimating incremental production are as follows:
Full Development
Present            Without            With
Situation           Program           Program
Age of cow at first calf   4 years             4 years           3 1/2 years
Calving rate                50%                45%               60%
Calf mortality              30%                35%               20%
Adult mortality              10%                10%                8%
Offtake rate                  5%                 4%               8%
Breeding cows in herd       37%                41%               35%
It is possible that a larger milk supply would also result from the program,
but on the assumption that it would be consumed by the pastoralists, this
benefit was not quantified.



- 24 -
Markets and Prices
6.06      Livestock marketing is entirely in the hands of private merchants.
Agents from Omdourman, Khartoum and the east rely on local middlemen who are
in close contact with the producers and who buy from them on a commission
basis. Livestock traded at the small towns and villages are bought for local
consumption and for assembly for trekking to the main markets of Omdourman,
Nyala, El Obeid and Medani which serve the urban centers. The large markets
have an elaborate system of trading, ranging from tribal or village merchants
to the cattle wholesalers.  There are no weighing facilities at any of the
large markets; animals are selected for quality and their ability to survive
the trek to urban slaughterhouses. The main herds of cattle reach the buying
centers in the west between July and October, but the market supply of live-
stock fluctuates seasonally with the availability of grazing. The increasing
urban population is a key determinant in the steady demand for meat, parti-
cularly mutton, and the seasonal variations in supply are reflected in sharp
price changes.
6.07      Most of the incremental production attributable to the program
would be marketed at the traditional established rural markets and trekked or
railed to Khartoum and/or the coast for reconditioning, fattening, slaughter
or export. The draft Six-Year Development Plan (1977-83) also provides for
an investigation of the feasibility of establishing a quarantine station and
slaughter house in Nyala to facilitate export of meat by air to Zaire, the
Central African Empire, Chad and Libya. Although these new markets may appear
to be attractive at the moment, most of the capital which is committed to
livestock sector developments in the Sudan is expected to come from the
oil-rich Arab countries, with the prime intention of securing their own
supplies of meat to the end of the century. For this reason alone, the
primary markets for livestock from the western Sudan will in the foreseeable
future continue to be in the eastern Sudan; there the animals would be
slaughtered for local consumption or made ready for export to the Middle
East.
6.08      The total annual incremental livetock production at full development
would be valued at about tSd 5.4 million (US$13.5 million), which would repre-
sent 2% of agriculture's contribution to GDP. The value of the incremental
marketed production of cattle was based on an estimated March 1977 market
price in Nyala and Ed Da'ein of iSd 45 (US$113) per head, and no bonus was
calculated for eventual quality improvement. No export of cattle was assumed,
for even though the temporary ban on livestock exports was lifted in October
1976, the expanded production would be required to meet both present and
future domestic demand.
C. Producer Benefits
6.09      All program farmers and pastoralists involved in the settlement and
range management schemes belong to the lowest income segments of the popu-
lation in the Sudan. The major benefits for them would be an increase in
income from expanded crop and/or livestock production. Overall the program



- 25 -
would affect an estimated 35,000 families or about 200,000 people. The
average annual gross production of both farmers and pastoralists would more
than double over a thirty-year period; more important, the cash surplus of a
program farm family would increase from US$20 to about US$170, and that of a
pastoralist family would increase from US$100 to US$350 (Annex 17). Most farm
and pastoralist families expected to participate in the program have incomes
below the current poverty income level in the Sudan (estimated at US$65).
D. Government Cash Flow (Annex 18)
6.10      Government would derive revenues from taxes on crops and live-
stock, import taxes and duties, personal income taxes and water charges. The
scope of the problems involved and the wide area in which they must be imple-
mented make it inevitable that the development effort would have to be con-
tinued over many years, with only gradual and limited change being apparent in
the early stages. Farmers and pastoralists involved in the program would have
incomes below the poverty income level (para 6.09); however, they would pay
unsubsidized prices for veterinary services, operating and maintenance costs
for water, and taxes and duties on crops and livestock. Therefore, given the
type of program proposed, it was felt that at the present time any other cost
recovery from the settlers and pastoralists such as: land allocation or
use charges, higher water charges or increased crop and livestock taxes would
be premature, as it would place too heavy a burden on them. However, if at a
later date total production should increase significantly, or if the settlers
were to achieve higher incomes through other activities, Government might wish
to reconsider its options. At year 30 when it is estimated that the results
of the program's two phases would be consolidated, the net annual program
revenues would be about 3Sd 2.4 million (US$6.0 million) after debt service.
During the disbursement period (year 1 to 6), the net annual Government cash
flow would be negative, and a cumulative deficit of about ISd 1.6 million
(about US$4.0 million) would have been accumulated by the end of year 6. This
amount represents Government's contribution to the program less revenues from
the program, or about 13% of total program cost net of taxes. In estimating
Government's program related revenues it was assumed that collection of taxes
and duties on crops and livestock and of water charges would gradually and
moderately improve (Annex 19).
6.11      The foreign exchange effect of the program would vary during its
lifetime. During the Project investment period (first six years of the
program) it would be positive; however, if it were to be measured over the
course of the program's two phases combined (about 12 years), the foreign
exchange cash flow would show an annual deficit ranging between US$0.5 and 3.5
million in constant 1977 terms over a period of 5 years (from year 7 to 11).
From year 12 onward the annual foreign exchange cash flow would be positive
and by year 14 the cumulative deficit would be eliminated; by the end of the
program, in year 30, when it is expected that the program would be fully
developed, foreign exchange earnings would reach about US$26 million annually
in 1977 constant terms.



- 26 -
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTFICATION
7.01      The Project would constitute a first step in the long-term develop-
ment of South Darfur Province. As a first phase of a development program,
it is essentially an experimental one, in which suitable production procedures
would be devised through program specific adaptive research, and a non-formal
educational and extension effort mounted to motivate farmers and pastoralists
to accept measures which would improve the utilization of natural resources.
The main quantifiable benefits stemming from the program would be substantial
increases in marketed crop and livestock production; this incremental produc
tion would be valued at ESd 8.8 million (US$22 million) at the end of the
program in year 30 annually. The program would also have a number of addi-
tional benefits which are more difficult to quantify. These would include:
(a) better nutrition for about 10,000 farming families in the program area;
(b) more reliable, sanitary and accessible water supplies for the population
of the whole Province (about 0.6 to 0.8 million persons); and (c) an insti-
tution building effect.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis (Annex 20)
7.02      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the program over 30
years is estimated at 14.5%; this return was calculated on the basis of the
costs and benefits of both Phases I and II (para. 4.19). The calculation of
an overall rate of return for Phase I (the Project) alone would be misleading
since it would not reflect the potential benefits of the entire development
program - a period of about 12 years. The ERR for the settlement and crop
components for Phase I only was estimated at 4.6%. In the first phase, only
a modest start-up production would have been achieved, and any success in
modernizing livestock production would also be limited in size and purpose.
Therefore calculation of a separate ERR for the livestock component of Phase I
only would not be meaningful.
7.03      The program's overall rate of return (14.5%) is a combination of the
rates of return of two components: (i) settlement and crop production (ERR
9%) and (ii) livestock development (EER 22.5%). These two components, how-
ever, are not independent, as one of the main purposes of the settlement
program is the opening of trekking routes for nomadic cattle, and any reduc-
tion of the settlement and crop component would adversely affect the opening
of these stockroutes. Therefore, a reduction of the settlement and crop
component would not necessarily improve the overall rate of return. Costs and
benefits were based on prices estimated as of March 1977. They include all of
the incremental capital and operating costs which would be incurred on behalf
of the program, with the exception of the costs of: (i) technical assistance
to marketing companies; (ii) the health survey; and (iii) operation of water
facilities not directly related to the settlement and livestock components of
the program. The economic effect of additional employment generated under the
program and the expected foreign exchange earnings have been included in the
rate of return calculations. The small amount of incremental hired farm labor
involved would only be required in times of seasonal labor shortages and was



- 27 -
valued at market prices. Costs exclude taxes and other transfers within the
economy. Foreign exchange was shadow priced at a rate of ESd 1 = US$2 (com-
pared to the current rate of ESd 1 = US$2.5) in the economic cost and benefit
calculations to reflect a more realistic value of foreign exchange for the
economy.
7.04      The sensitivity of the rate of return was tested against changes in
costs and benefits due to variations in prices, production, slippage of bene-
fits and non-adoption of improved farming techniques by settlers. An increase
of 10% in all costs would reduce the ERR by 1% point from 14.5% to 13.5%. A
decrease of 10% in gross benefits would also reduce the ERR by 1% point from
14.5% to 13.5%. The non-adoption of improved techniques by farmers would
reduce the ERR of the settlement and crop component by 4.5% points from 9% to
4.5%. A decrease of 10% in livestock sales would reduce the ERR of the live-
stock component by 3.8% points from 22.5% to 18.7%. The program as a whole
would thus be only moderately sensitive to changes in costs, benefits or
the rate of development, but would be seriously affected should the farmers
and pastoralists in the area fail to adopt improved land use and management
practices. The intensive non-formal education and training programs for
farmers and pastoralists during the Project's period, the establishment of
program specific adaptive research combined with extension services, and the
build-up of a local development oriented administration should lessen the
risks which could be created by a lack of cooperation of participants.
Employment Generation
7.05      The Project would ensure permanent employment for some 900 persons;
around 500 to 700 workers would be given temporary employment during the
Project implementation period (mostly in the construction of buildings and
other works). Furthermore, labor requirements per settler farm would increase
by 20% from 314 mandays to 382 mandays annually at full development. The
utilization of the annually available family labor potential which was esti-
mated at 466 days 1/ would increase from 58% to 68% excluding the small amount
of hired labor for weeding (estimated presently at 45 mandays per annum and
increasing to 67 mandays under the program). No increase in labor is expected
in livestock production.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations Government:
(a)  clarified the status, precise functions and powers of
the WSDC and its relationship to: the ODM/Abu Dhabi
Fund financed project in South Darfur Province; the
Provincial Government and its Administration; the
Ministries of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources,
1/   Based on 2.6 labor units in a family of six members.



- 28 -
People's Local Government, Public Administration
and Administrative Reform, Health, Education, and
Construction; the Rural Water and Agricultural
Research Corporations; the Gum Arabic and Sudan Oil
Seeds companies and other institutions which would
possibly be involved in the Project's implementation
(para 5.01); and
(b) presented to Association the draft Order of Establish-
ment of WSDC which was satisfactory to the Association
(para 5.01).
8.02      During negotiations agreement was reached with Government on the
following points:
(a) no further permanent settlement in any area would be
permitted except as authorized by WSDC in consulta-
tion with the Association and on the basis of satis-
factory settler selection criteria after the comple-
tion by WSDC of the designs for such settlement area
(para 4.03);
(b) terms, conditions and duration of land use rights would
be specified so as to provide settlers with security of
tenure (para 4.04);
(c) a land registry would be established in Nyala by
September 1, 1978 (para 4.04);
(d) a small pilot scheme of Bonded Storage Areas would
be established by the Marketing Division of the WSDC
(para 4.07);
(e) maintenance and operating costs for the wateryards
would be recovered to the fullest extent possible by
establishing an appropriate rate for water charges
which would be reviewed at regular intervals not ex-
ceeding 12 months with Government during Project
supervision and adjusted as necessary; all funds col-
lected by WSDC for water charges would be used exclu-
sively for maintenance and operating costs of water-
yards (para 4.15);
(f) after completion of the Project, Government would take
all such measures, determined in consultation with the
Association and on the basis of the information col-
lected by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, as shall
be required to make full economic and productive use
of investments included in the Project (para 4.19);
(g) Government will go on to implement further stages in
the agricultural development of the eastern district



- 29 -
of South Darfur Province in line with the objectives
and investments estimated for the development pro-
gram's second phase; details of this assurance are
contained in a supplementary letter (para 4.19);
(h)  the financing arrangements specified in para 4.20
would be adhered to;
(i)  the procurement procedures in para 4.21 would be
followed;
(j)  certified copies of the audited annual accounts of
the WSDC would be furnished to IDA not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year (para
4.23); and
(k)  no further development in the Project area would be
carried out which might significantly and adversely
affect the pattern of land utilization except after
due consideration among Government, the Association
and WSDC (para 4.24).
8.03      During negotiations understanding was also reached with Government
that when the National Research Program (NRP) has been agreed and is equipped
to become fully operational, the research related functional and organiza-
tional responsibilities of the Savannah Development Project and of the NRP
will be reviewed with a view to assigning to the latter overall responsibility
for supporting and monitoring all research in the savannah areas. The timing
for this transfer between the NRP and WSDC would be a matter for mutual
consultation at that time in the light of the implementation schedule of
both programs. The Association and other financing agencies would be given
an opportunity to comment on the precise proposals at that time. The above
understandings are contained and recorded in the Agreed Minutes of Negotia-
tions dated April 8, 1977.
8.04      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)  the Western Savannah Development Corporation had been
established under an Order satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (para 4.02); and
(b)  the Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and
WSDC has been signed and is satisfactory to the
Association (para 4.20).
8.05      Subject to the above assurances, conditions and understandings,
the proposed Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$17 million to the
Government of the Sudan.



t-



GLOSSARY OF LOCAL TERMS
akil go'om                          -  the right to cultivate a piece of land
which is lost on leaving the village
aseeda                              -  a porridge made from dukhn
ashur                               -  ad valorum tax on crops
atmur                               -  sandy ridge of aeolian or alluvial
origin overlying finer taxtured soils
awayd el balad                      -  a payment of one-tenth of the produce
baggari                             -  a cattleman
(pl. baggara)
buta                                -  a clay depression flooded during the
rains
damins                              -  tribal guarantor in a livestock market
dara                                -  the place in the farig set aside for
entertaining guests
dar (el Rizeiqat)                   -  the center, headquarters and main cul-
tivating area of the (Rizeiqat) tribe
dar (Rizeiqat)                      -  the whole (of Rizeiqat) territory
debabi                              -  livestock selling agent
demin                               -  guarantor
dukhn                               -  the staple grain: Pennisetum typhoideum,
bullrush millet
dura                                -  sorghum grain produced in East Central
Sudan, called mareig in Southern Dafur
and used for feeding horses and for
beer making
farig                               -  a camp; a minimal family lineage: a
cultivating or herding unit nominally
based on the agnatic relation of heads
of domestic units
gabana                              -  market handling charge
gabila                              -  a tribe
gardud                              -  non-cracking clay soils in the Regeba
Land System



gassab                             -  straw of dukhn or dura
gelaji                              -  independent, small-scale livestock
trader
genein (hashab)                     -  a hashab garden
gubraka                             -  the garden area in the vicinity of
the house cultivated by women - often
used for the production of quick matur-
ing sorghum and okra
hafir (pl. hafira)                  -  a reservoir artifically excavated and
constructed into which surface run-off
water is diverted for storage
hashab                              -  gum collected from Acacia senegal
hod (pl. heidan)                    -  a small clay-lined basin for watering
animals
iyal ragl                           -  an extended family: literally "the sons
of one man": a minor lineage usually
consisting of a number of ferigs
jellaba                             -  merchant, usually from the Nile Valley
kerkade or derkady                  -  Hibiscus sabdariffa, the flower sepals
are dried fro use as a beverage
khashmbeit                          -  a lineage division or sub-division of
omodiya
mandoub (pl. manadeeb)              -  a minor official appointed by local
government or tribal authorities
morhal (pl. moraheel)               -  a route used by migrating animals -
stockroute
nafir                               -  a communal working party
naga's                              -  non-cracking clay soils in the Baggara
Alluvium land system
nazara                             -  the area of responsibility of the nazir
nazir                              -  head of a tribe (officially abolished
position)
omda                               -  official responsible for an omodiya



-3 -
omodiya                             -  the administrative sub-division of a tribe
qoz                                 -  sandy soils
ragil                               -  fully responsible head of a family
rakuba                              -  a dry season shelter with a flat roof
of gassab
samsor                              -  a livestock trading agent
sebabi                              -  a middleman
semn                                -  clarified butter from which water has
been boiled off ghee
sheikh                              -  a Government appointed official (tradi-
tional authority) responsible to an omda
for a section of a tribe
sheikh el ard                       -  a sheikh empowered to allocate land for
annual cropping or hashab collection
sheikh el daftar                    -  a sheikh empowered to collect government
taxes
sheil                               -  a system of pre-harvest crop mortgaging
operated by merchants who provide credit
to cultivators
shid                                -  literally the distance an animal can
travel to water daily (approx. 22kms)
tagir mwashi                        -  large-scale livestock merchant control-
ling also the export trade
tebeldi                             -  Adonsonia digitata Baobab
wosta                               -  personal contact
zakat                               -  islamic religions taxation
zariba                              -  literally fence, used to mean the live-
stock (or crop) market






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Demographic and Economic Data
1.        The most recent census in the Sudan took place in 1973. 1/  While
many of the results are still considered as preliminary, they represent
the most reliable information which is currently available on the distri-
bution and characteristics of the Sudanese population. Some of these
figures must nevertheless be accepted with caution as the rate of urban-
isation or the pattern of internal migration may change significantly in
a short period of time (Table 1). Per capita GNP was estimated in 1975
at US$290 2/, and is currently growing at a rate of 4-5% annually.
2.        For the Sudan as a whole, approximately 18% of the population
reside in urban areas (towns of more than 5,000 population) or in centers of
administrative importance; 82% reside in rural area, out of which about 11%
are nomadic. This distribution does not, however, apply uniformly in all the
provinces. The distribution by province is shown in Table 2. Khartoum is the
most urbanised province, with nearly three-quarters of its population living
in urban areas. The next urbanized province - Red Sea - is a distant second
with only 36.4% living in urban areas. In the other provinces the urban
percentage ranges from 9.6% to 20.9%. The percentage for South Darfur-is on
the low side due to the fact that there are few towns.
3.        Although the urban economy is based on employment in various sec-
tors, the rural economy remains one which is primarily agricultural and
pastoral.
1/   The 1973 population census put the total population for that year at
14.9 million with a growth rate of 2.2 percent annually. This compares
with a population figure of 17.1 million (and growth rate of 2.8 percent
annually) for 1973 which had been previously estimated based upon the
results of the 1955/56 census. Data are being published province by
province and The Bahr El Ghazal volume was completed at the time of
the appraisal and the others were in preparation. The Darfur volume
was scheduled to be completed last because of the complexity of that
province (the nomadic population).
2/   No data are available about variations of the capita GNP in the Sudan.
Per capita GNP in the relatively developed eastern part of the Sudan is
decisive in calculating the country's overall estimated GNP. The GNP per
capita in the West is unquestionably lower than is the case in the East,
and could be compared with that of Chad - US$100 (1974); in its rural
areas it is probably even lower. The poverty income level in the Sudan
has in recent years, however, increased from US$40 to US$65 per capita.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Agriculture is the major contributor to GDP, but the productivity
per agricultural worker is substantially lower than for workers in other
sectors. For example, a worker in the construction industry contributes
4.2 and mining and manufacturing 7.0 times as much to the GDP of the Sudan
as does the agricultural worker.
5.        The agricultural potential of the country is substantial and cur-
rently underutilized; only a fraction of the arable land that could be
developed is utilized. If by the end of the century a total of about 35 mil-
lion ha of potentially arable land is brought under cultivation, the land/
man ratio would be about 3 ha per one inhabitant. Furthermore, it is esti-
mated that livestock production could over the same period be roughly
doubled; currently there are 7 ha of rangeland per livestock, which could be
more intensively utilized given better management (Annex 2, para 7).
6.        The Sudan's Six-Year Development Plan (1977-83), now under prepa-
ration, will require a total investment of about ESd 2.6 billion (US$6.5
billion), or an average of ESd 430 million (US$1.1 billion) per annum. It is
estimated that this volume of investment would produce a growth rate of GDP of
7% to 8% annually. The Ten-Year Basic Agricultural Development Program (Basic
Program) for the Sudan prepared by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development would be of great significance for the country in the realization
of these investment targets. This Basic Program would be part of a 25 year
plan to make the Sudan the primary source of food for Arab countries; it
estimates that by 1985 the Sudan would provide 42% of the Arab world's total
vegetable oil consumption, 58% of its basic food and 20% of its sugar needs.
Total cost of the Basic Program over a ten year period would be US$5.7 billion,
out of which US$2.0 billion have been earmarked for agriculture and would form
the core of agricultural development within the Six-Year Plan (1977-83).
Twelve Arab Governments on November 1, 1976 signed an agreement establishing
an autonomous body, the Arab Authority for Agricultural Investment and Develop-
ment (AAAID), to implement the Basic Program. The authorized capital of AAAID
has been established at US$510 million, of which 75% has been subscribed.
January 31, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population of the Sudan by Region and Province
REGION/Province                           Province:      Region:
Population             %              Z
of total      of total
EASTERN
Kassala                 1,123,387            7.5
Red Sea                   465,043            3.1             10.6
NORTHERN
Northern                  998,883            6.7              6.7
CENTRAL
Khartoum                1,168,169            7.8
Blue Nile                 969,474            6.5
White Nile                978,018            6.6             33.4
Gezira                  1,865,499           12.5
WESTERN1
Kordofan                2,202,346           14.8
Darfur                  2,181,161           14.6            29.4
SOUTHERN
Bahr-al-Ghazal          1,396,913            9.4
Equatoria                 755,750            5.1            19.9
Upper Nile                798,251            5.4
TOTAL                  14,902,894          100%             100%
1/  In 1974 Kordofan and Darfur were each split into separate provinces,
i.e. North and South Kordofan and North and South Darfur Provinces.
Source: Department of Statistics - 1975. Estimates based on preliminary
results of the 1973 census.
March 4, 1977



ANNEX I
Table 2
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Percentage Distribution by Province 1/
of Urban, Rural, and Nomadic Population
REGION/Province    Urban          Rural      Nomadic
EASTERN
Kassala              20.9          56.9        22.2
Red Sea              36.4          27.9        35.7
NORTHERN 2/
Northern             16.9          73.7         9.4
CENTRAL
Khartoum             72.8          22.5         4.7
Blue Nile            14.5          74.1       11.4
White Nile           15.8          70.8        13.4
Gezira               11.4          88.2        0.4
WESTERN 2/
Kordofan             11.9          69.7       18.4
Darfur                9.6          71.8        18.6
Source:  Department of Statistics, 1975;
estimates based on preliminary
results of the 1973 census.
1/ Figures for the Eastern, Northern, Central, and Western
Regions; Southern Region excluded.
2/ In this and other tables some provinces have been combined
in accordance with availability of data.
January 24, 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and the Economy
1.        Presently available estimates of livestock numbers in the Sudan
are based on extrapolations from various sources - market sales, slaughter
and export figures, sales and export of hides and skins, vaccination figures,
and livestock tax returns. A national livestock census by low-level aerial
survey, now underway, will provide the first nationwide data on livestock in
the Sudan. The table below shows the latest official estimates for the
coutnry by province.
Cattle     Sheep      Goats     Camels
------------million head-------------
1973/74
National Estimate                  14.1      13.4      10.5       2.7
Provinces
Bahr el Ghazal                     3.1        1.0       1.2        -
Equatoria                          0.6        0.5      0.9         -
Blue Nile                           1.2       3.6       2.4        0.3
Kassala                            0.4        1.1       0.7        0.6
Northern                            0.2       0.5       0.3        0.1
Khartoum                           0.1        0.1       0.3        0.1
Upper Nile                          1.8       0.7       1.2        -
Kordofan /1                         2.0       3.0      1.0         1.2
Darfur /1                           4.7       2.9       2.5        0.4
/1   North and South.
Source:   National Planning Commission, July 1975.
According to the official estimates, North and South Darfur have the heaviest
concentration of livestock in the Sudan, with 33 percent of the national
cattle herd, 22 percent of the sheep, 24 percent of the goats, and 15 percent
of the camels. Parts of North Darfur are unoccupied, with the majority of
Darfur animals (other than camels) being concentrated in South Darfur for
most of the year.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.        The livestock industry is a significant sector of the Sudanese
economy. It is one of the main sources of food and employment for the
population and it is a modest contributor to foreign earnings. In 1975
it has accounted for about 16% of GDP and livestock exports have contributed
from 6% to 10% of the value of total exports. In December 1974, a temporary
ban was placed on the exports of livestock and meat in to stabilize do-
mestic supplies and prices. The ban was lifted in October 1976.
3.        It is estimated that about 2.6 million families own livestock.
In the Western Provinces, most livestock appear to be owned in groups of
about 30 to 50 cattle and around 40 to 60 sheep and goats. Sedentary
producers usually have a few animals only. The bulk of the livestock are
owned by two pastoral groups, the northern Arab Baggara tribes mainly in the
Kordofan and Darfur provinces and the southern Nilotic tribes.
Cattle Breeds
4.        The Sudan has some of the best livestock breeds of Africa
and the Near East. Cattle and sheep are relatively large-framed types and
capable of satisfactory growth rates under conditions of adequate feeding.
The Kenana cattle have been selected for milk yield, and production
exceeding 1,000 litres per lactation is not uncommon:
(a) Baggara Cattle. These are of East African Zebu type. They
are found in Kordofan and Darfur provinces and along the
White Nile, north of latitude 120 N and along the Blue Nile.
They number about 7 million head, and include sub-types such
as the Kenana, Butana and Rafan. The Kenana are grey in color
and are reported to give more milk than the predominantly
red-skinned beefier Butana animals. Their genetic potential
is good for production with wellfed mature animals of four
to five years of age achieving 500 kg liveweight. Well-fed
young stock can reach 250 kg, i.e. breeding weight within two
years, although normally heifers calve at three and a half
years or older.
(b) Nilotic or Southern Cattle. These are a smaller breed than
the Baggara. They are a long-horned small-humped type of Zebu.
They are believed to number about 5 million head, and they
inhabit the southern provinces of Bahr El Ghazal, Upper
Nile and Eastern Equatoria. The meat of this breed is said
to be of better quality than that of the Baggara because
more of the males are castrated and their environment provides
better grazing and more water. This is probably not a breed
difference but due to tribal management customs.
1/   Source:  Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(c) Exotic Crossbreeds. There has been very little cross-
breeding with exotic blood. The Belgravia dairy close to
Khartoum milks about 500 cows, mostly crossbreeds of
Butana with Holstein, Ayrshire and Guernsey for average
daily production of 8-9 kg milk.
Livestock Production Systems
5.        Probably 60% of cattle production, up to 80% of sheep and goat pro-
duction and all camel production comes from migratory producers; much of the
rest comes from producers having a base in farming. The remainder comes from
small mixed, settled farmer operations. In the Western Provinces, herds of
cattle move between northern and southern locations. With the approach of the
wet season, cattle leave the wetter areas of the south to reach their summer
grazing areas in the north, crossing the railway line during July. Cattle
begin moving southwards again in September, cross the railway line in October
and reach the dry season grazing areas again about December. During the dry
season, nomadic herds are usually in remote areas. Most sales, therefore,
occur in the wet season between July and October. Nomadic sheep and goat
flocks remain during the dry season in areas close to the main migatory stock
routes, i.e. within the 400 mm to 600 mm rainfall belt, often browsing feed
left by cattle. In July, flocks begin moving north to spend the wet season
in areas which receive 150 mm to 250 mm of rainfall, about 200 km to 300 km
to the north and in the general direction of the markets in the east. Some
mixed crop livestock farmers are now settled but have transhumant livestock
which usually graze in the village croplands during the early rains when
the crops are planted and also during the dry season after harvest. During
the rains, these stock move northwards and once the water points have dried
up and crop residues have been consumed, they move southwards. Villages which
have permanent water tend to keep their animals around the village for as long
as possible, with consequent over-grazing and reduced livestock performance
due to under-nutrition.
Patterns of Ownership
6.        In recent years, traditional pastoral nomadism, particularly
among the Baggara, has come under pressure from a number of economic, pol-
itical and climatic factors which are gradually bringing about changes and
inducing settlement on an increasing scale. Settlers bring small herds
with them to agricultural settlement schemes; older members of the 'farig'
or family group remain as semi-sedentary cultivators with a small herd while
the young men, with the main herds, follow the traditional nomadic system.
The village-based herds are growing in importance and, while the problems
of maintaining such stock on surrounding grazing land are considerable, there
is ample opportunity and need to develop this pattern of management. In
addition to the traditional systems of management, there are number of small
commercial feedlots near of Khartoum. These units vary from holding grounds
to intensive fattening farms where cattle are fed on crop residues and supple-
ments for quick compensatory weight gains. There is one privately owned dairy



ANNEX 2
Page 4
farm but dairy development in the area of the Three Towns 1/ is state owned
and managed (e.g. the Kuku and El Qurishi farms). A number of parastatal
livestock production units such as the ranch on the Chazala Gawazat Research
Center, have been formed, but the experience has not met with success.
Feeding and Nutrition of Livestock
7.        The greater part of the Sudan consists of vast areas of grazing
lands utilized by primarily migratory stockowners. The savannah and the
southern flood lands together provide about 80% of the feed consumed by
livestock and consist of annual and perennial grasses and some browsing
shrubs. However, because of the short growing season (July - September),
and the shortage and uneven distribution of water (mostly shallow wells)
part of the feed remains unused and is burned - a factor which contributes
to livestock bodyweight fluctuations. Some of the land is used for farming
but the major part is grazed by livestock. The areas, by province, are as
follows:
Province                   Total           Deductions        Rangeland and
million            million            Farming
(ha)              (ha)          million (ha)
Bahr El Ghazal             21.4              4.9 FT               16.5
Blue Nile                  14.2                -                  14.2
Darfur                     49.6              5.2 FT               27.9
16.5 D
Equatoria                  19.8              2.9 FT              16.9
Kasaala                    34.1              8.5 D               25.6
Khartoum                    2.1               -                   2.1
Kordofan                   38.0              7.8 FT              30.2
Northern                   47.7             47.7 D
Upper Nile                 23.6             16.8 F                6.8
250.5            110.3 FT             140.2
F = Flooded                 T = Tsetse               D = Desert
Source: Review of Livestock Development in the Sudan C.R. Halbrook and
M.R. Yust, USAID, 1964. Current Government estimates are about
10% less for rangeland and farming areas including forests.
1/   Khartoum, North Khartoum and Omdourman.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Of this area, it is estimated that some 35 million ha are suitable for
crop production and the remaining 105 million ha for livestock production,
rangeland and forests. From these assumptions it is estimated that the
range could, in fact, support 1.5 times more animals at present i.e. about
25 million cattle, 25 million sheep, 17.5 million goats and 5 million
camels.
By-Product Feeding
8.        The Sudan produces a wide range of crops and crop by-products which
can be used for animal feeding (including cotton seed and other oil cakes,
groundnuts, sesame, sorghum, pulses, molasses, wheat bran). During recent
years a great increase in concentrate feeding of livestock, especially of
slaughterstock in feedlots, has taken place. In spite of this, large quanti-
ties of available feed for livestock are either unutilized or are exported.
Cotton seed cake and bran from local mills are in relative abundance and meet
the main demand for feeds arising in the urban areas. Oilseeds and oilseed
cake, cotton and gum arabic, constitute the main export commodities. A modern,
automated feed compounding with a capacity of 10,000 tons has been factory
established in Khartoum in association with a flour mill. In addition a num-
ber of commercial feedlots also have their own milling and mixing facilities.
The table below, compiled by the FAO 1975 Perspective Study of Agricultural
Development in the Sudan, gives an estimate of the grains, by-products
and crop residues available in 1970 and two alternative estimates for 1985.
Feed Availability ('000 tons)
1970            I           1985         II
Alternative             Alternative
/1   /2    /3
Prod. Exp. Feed  Prod. Exp. Feed   Prod. Exp. Feed
Sorghum/Maize          -      -     18   -       -   103     1     1      204
Bran (from all
sources)             149    29   120  248      -   248   276     -     276
All oilseed cake       326   237    89  534   441    93   778   401       377
All cereal stubble
and straw           -       -    n.a.  -     - 15,500    -       -  17,500
Molasses                40    -    n.a.  75    -      75    75     -       75
/1   Total Production.
/2   Export.
/3   Used for livestock feed.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Forage Production on Irrigated Land
9.        Approximately 1.5 million of irrigated lands, mostly in the east,
contribute increasingly to the maintenance of livestock. In addition, herds
and flocks utilize the aftermath of crops on irrigated areas. There is also
considerable potential for developing specialized forms of production by
utilizing the rangelands for the production of store animals, such as young
bulls and male lambs, which can be finished in feedlots utilizing feeds,
fodder and agricultural by-products produced on the irrigated areas.
Preparing Animals for Export
10.       To hold and prepare animals for slaughter and export, simple live-
stock reconditioning operations have developed around Khartoum - Wad Medani
in recent years. Livestock are kept on bare land where they are fed ground-
nut hulls, cotton-seed cake and mature sorghum stalks. All these operations
have high cost due to the shortage of low priced, better quality feedstuffs
around Khartoum without which efficient fattening performances cannot be
attained. The high cost has been worthwhile in recent years as domestic
and export prices have been rising and a substantial margin has separated
buying and selling prices per kg.
Productivity
11.       Productivity in the cattle herds is low.  Calving rates 40% to 50%
and calf mortality rates of 10% to 15% reflect the stress which deteriorating
conditions on the range have put on breeding stock. The long distances
which cattle now have to travel to water, the practice of night herding,
depriving stock of full grazing time and the minimal subsistence grazing on
which they exist for long periods during dry season mean that animals take
longer to mature, and come into breeding condition much less frequently than
under better management conditions. The practice of milking the cows also
means that calves are starved, and contributes to increased death rates in
young stock. Sheep husbandry is generally of a higher standard than cattle
management and productivity in the flock of Sudanese desert sheep is high with
a reported average of three lamb crops in two years in the Blue Nile Province.
Off-take Rates
12.       Cattle off-take rates in the Sudan vary throughout the production
areas; for the Sudan as a whole estimates are ranging between 7% to 10%.
Sheep off-take rates show similar variations but on somewhat higher percentage.
Nnimal Health
i3.       Animal disease problems in the Sudan are similar to that of the
whole sub-saharan region of Africa extending to the Atlantic. The high
incidence of disease, transhumant and nomadic systems of production, the lack
of a road network and difficulty of wet-season transport and communication



ANNEX 2
Page 7
limit the extent to which the small but highly professional veterinary service
is able to cope with the problems of animal health. The diseases of major
economic importance which affect the livestock industry of the Sudan and which
affect the proposed production program area: rinder-pest; bovine and caprine
pleuropneumonia; blue tongue; foot and mouth disease; trypanosomiasis; the
tick borne diseases (including heart water); internal and other forms of
parasitism; haemorrhagic septicemia; blackquarters; anthrax; brucelosis; and
mal-nutrition.
14.       Government services for the livestock industry are centered on the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources (Annex 15). The Ministry's
Department of Animal Resources consists of: Animal Health Services, Quarantine
and Epizootiology Services, Veterinary Research and Laboratory Services, Animal
Production Research Services. The staff of the Veterinary Field Services com-
prise: 150 veterinary officers, 160 veterinary assistants and 1,000 stock-men,
working from 250 field facilities. A reporting system enables the monitoring
of the disease situation in the provinces. The Field Services are also
responsible for the further development of the stockroute from Nyala to
Khartoum and for making provision for water, fodder and disease control on
this 1,200 km long trek.
15.       The Quarantine and Epizootiology Services are responsible for:2
(i) the establishment of the disease free zone covering about 400,000 km
of the Sudan and the quarantine stations at Kadaro, Wadi Halfa and Port
Sudan; (ii) for the control of infectious disease (iii) for the abattoirs
at Omdourman, Kadaro and Port Sudan (to be constructed) and (iv) for the
training of 250 meat inspectors over the coming 5 year period.
16.       The Veterinary Research and Laboratory Services are responsible for
the running of the Central Veterinary Research Laboratory which includes
diagnostic vaccine production, research and training of laboratory staff. In
1973/74 the vaccine laboratory produced the following vaccines (in million
doeses): Rinderpest 4.4; Haemorrhagic Septicaeminia 2.2; Blackleg 0.8;
Newcastle 0.7; Fowl Pox 0.1; Fowl Cholrea 0.02+; C.B.P.P. 0.3. Five regional
laboratories have been designated and partly established and specific roles
in animal disease research have been allocated to each.
17.       In the export Quarantine station of Khartoum (Kadero) cattle
are vaccinated against haemorrhagic septicemia and anthrax in addition
to rinderpest while sheep are vaccinated against anthrax. The animals
are kept for two weeks in the quarantine station and they are then
exported. Should an outbreak of contagious disease occur during this
period, export is stopped. Preparation of consignments of meat, prior to
export by plane, are also subject to strict supervision by the Sudan
Veterinary Service until delivery has been effected.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Slaughterhouses
18.       Until recently the only operational slaughterhouse in the Sudan
was the Municipal Slaughterhouse at Omdourman (Khartoum). A new export
slaughterhouse at Kadero with a daily capacity of 250 cattle and 1,000 sheep
(one 10 hour shift) is ready to go into operation when the export ban is
lifted. Its capacity will increase by 50% when the chilling department is
completed. Tenders have been invited for a new slaughterhouse at Port Sudan
planned for half the capacity of Kadero.
Quarantine and Export Control Measures
19.       The Sudan has developed a system of animal health precautions
applied during the collection of animals for export. For a number of years
special facilities have been provided at supervised quarantine yards at
Khartoum for feeding northern cattle for export, have been provided at super-
vised quarantine yards at Khartoum while a system of feedlot operations on a
commercial basis by the private sector has more recently been developed in
another area close to Khartoum. Movements of cattle for export are controlled
in the province of origin. The animals are vaccinated against rinderpest,
haemorrhagic septicemia and anthrax and, after a period of seven days, if they
are moving within the country, and after fifteen days if they are for export;
they are marked by branding.
Hide and Skin Processing
20.       There are many small rural tanneries which process about 1 million
hides and skins per year into crude leather for local use; there are also two
industrial tanneries in Khartoum, one with a capacity of 400 hides and 1,000
sheep skins per day and the other with a capacity of 850 hides and 3,000 sheep
or goat skins per day. A third tannery with a capacity of 1,300 hides and
3,250 skins per day, the majority to be sold for export in the pickled or wet
blue form, is also planned at Wad Medani. A pilot tannery at Nyala with a
capacity of 50 hides and 200 sheep/goat skins per day functions as a training
unit for rural tanners.
Major Livestock Institutions
The Animal Production Public Corporation
21.       This parastatal corporation was established in May of 1975
for the purpose of:
-    participating in the general planning of animal production
activities;
-    exercising supervision of production in the subsidiary
corporations within the framework of the country's general
policy for animal production;



ANNEX 2
Page 9
ensuring optimum utilization of available natural resources
and investment on sound commercial economic and scientific
lines.
The Livestock and Meat Marketing Commission
22.       On October 17, 1976 the Livestock and Meat Marketing Commission
was accepted by the Council of Ministers and established by Decree of the
Prime Minister, as a supporting agency to the Supreme Council for Produc-
tion and Trade under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture, Food
and Natural Resources.
(a) The functions of the commission are to be:
(i) to undertake studies and surveys and to collect data on
external markets, production and local consumption;
(ii) to provide advice and consultancy services to Government
producers and consumers;
(iii) through its Board of Directors to be ultimately responsible
for the issuing of licenses in cooperation with the Ministry
of Trade and Supply, the Bank of Sudan and the Bureau of
the Public Prosecutor.
(b) The Board of Directors of the Commission would consist of:
The Director General of the Commission who will be the
Chairman Representatives of: the Department of Animal
Resources; the Ministry of Trade and Supply; the Ministry
of Finance, Planning and National Economy; the Ministry of
Local Peoples Administration; the Ministry of Transport and
Communication; the Ministry of Cooperatives; the Bank of
Sudan; the Director General of the Animal Production Public
Corporation; two Representatives of Livestock Producers and
Meat Traders, and a Technical Specialist.
23.       The objectives of the Commission would be the formulation and
implementation of a national meat policy, the organization of livestock and
livestock products marketing in the Sudan and abroad and to propose to the
government the relevant actions to be taken in this regard. The Government
has requested that the Railway component of the originally proposed Western
Savannah Development Project as well as the Technical Assistance Project
proposed for UNDP financing and other aspects of the Commission activities
be appraised as a separate project for financing by IDA. Appraisal was ac-
complished in March 1977. The establishment of the Commission is particularly
fortunate at a time when the Government is embarking on an expansion of its
livestock development program. The commission would be instrumental in
planning and coordinating the orderly development of this important industry
and thereby to gain the confidence of foreign private and public investors.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Training of Professional Staff
24.       To overcome the need for professional staff for the veterinary
services the faculty of veterinary medicine at Khartoum University is in-
creasing its graduate out-turn to 100 a year. Animal production training
at the professional level is given to undergraduates in veterinary medicine
and agriculture by the Department of Animal Production. Intermediate level
training in the animal production and health field is given at the Kuku
Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Technical Training Center established in 1972.
This Center is intended to turn out some 60 Veterinary and Animal Husbandry
Technical Assistants yearly after a two to three years course. The training
Center is at present handicapped by the lack of a well developed training and
demonstration farm of its own on which students can receive practical train-
ing. An additional training center will be established at Nyala. A training
course in meat inspection and hygiene at present being conducted at Omdourman
Abattoir will be expanded. and move to the recently opened Kadaro Abattoir.
Finally training of head stockmen and assistant stockmen is located at
Omdourman Veterinary Training School.
April 19, 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Area 1/
A. General
1.        The Project would be located in South Darfur Province (Province),
the most westerly province of the Sudan. The Province's western boundary
forms the international frontier with2Chad and the Central African Empire. It
has a total area of about 160,000 km , divided between four administrative
districts: Western - main Central, Southern, and Eastern. The capital of the
Province is Nyala which has 2 population of about 60,000.  The Project area
extends over about 65,000 km or slightly over 1/3 of the Province; would in-
clude mostly the Eastern District, which is now subdivided into Abu Matariq
and Ed Da'ein Rural Councils. In addition, those eastern parts of Southern
District south of the 12th parallel, which were not surveyed during the
southern Darfur Land Use Planning Survey (HTS, 1974), have been included.
Furthermore during unusually wet years some pastoralists from the Project
area would continue to visit parts of North Darfur Province. These areas
were not, however, included in the Project area. (Maps, IBRD 12474 and .12475).
Vegetation
2.         The vegetation of the area is low rainfall woodland savannah which
occurs in the Sudan where rainfall ranges between 300 mm and 1,000 mm per
annum. In the drier parts, the majority of trees are thorny, with species
of acacia predominating. In the areas of greater rainfall, broad-leaved
deciduous trees become predominant, but the range of species is limited and
thorny trees are usually present. There are more annual than perennial
grasses in all land systems, with the exception of the Bahr and the regebas
within the Regeba land system. Three formations are recognised as belonging
to this low rainfall savannah type:
(a) thorn scrub formation of the drier parts of the
basement and Baggara land systems. Thorny acacia
species of low stature are dominant in this formation;
(b) thorny savannah formation occupies the more humid
parts of the basement land system and the majority of
the Baggara and Regeba land systems. Tall acacia
species are dominant, but other tree species, includ-
ing broad-leaved deciduous species are found;
1/   The Project area is identical to the "program" area, i.e. the total area
to be covered by both the Project and a possible Phase II project.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) savannah woodland formation is confined to the gently
undulating sand sheet areas of the Habbaniya and
Ma'aliya Qoz in the Qoz Land System. Non-thorny
and broad-leaved trees are dominant.
Tribal Groups
3.        The main tribes in the Project area are the Rizeiqat and Ma'aliya.
The two tribes have much in common, but are distinguished by their different
degrees of dependence on animal wealth and cultivation and by the correspond-
ing differences in attitudes to the natural resources they possess. The
Rizeiqat is the largest tribe, both in numbers of people and in animal wealth.
About 50 percent of the tribe lead a nomadic life. The settled population
which are Rizeqat share most of the values of the nomads and have free access
to the natural resources (mainly land and water). The Ma'aliya have a higher
percentage of settled population and are less dependent on animal wealth
than the Rizeiqat. Recently, however, there has been an increase in animal
ownership, mostly for trading purposes or as an alternative investment.
Rights to cultivation are more rigidly controlled in the Ma'aliya area, where
permission to cultivate is given by a land sheikh under certain conditions.
Population
4.        Population figures for the Project area are highly unreliable and
are based on available best estimates. The findings of the 1973 census
are not yet released and the previus census, performed 1955-56, is obsolete.
Data about the population in the Project area are derived from the 1975 March
and October aerial censuses conducted using the techniques developed by
Resource Management and Research Ltd., of Nairobi (RMR). These showed that a
total of about 360,000 people are in the Project area during the dry season,
half of which are transhumant pastoralists and half sedentary cultivators.
About 30,000 of the transhumants should be considered to be only temporarily
in the area during the dry season; they are located mostly the north-east
part of the Province, but have a permanent homeland in neighboring areas.
They do not usually move as far south as the Bahr, but depend on the graz-
ing available around the wateryards. It is expected that almost all the
150,000 pastoralists or 25,000 families permanently living in the area would
be affected by the Project. Furthermore, about 60,000 sedentary cultivators
or 10,000 families would also be affected by the Project, or 1/3 of all such
sedentary farmers in the area. The degree of involvement would vary and would
gradually increase in intensity. The Project would initially render simple
services (animal health, etc.) and develop gradually toward organized pastoral
type advanced livestock production.
5.        Seasonal Distribution of Population.  The maximum density of popu-
lation in the Project area occurs when the nomads reach the dar 1/ area in
June/ July and again in October/November. In the dry season, the nomadic
population is concentrated in the Bahr and Regeba areas. During the rainy
1/   Homeland.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
season, part of the nomadic family, especially older women and children, join
the sedentary population until after the harvest when they rejoin the nomadic
camps (farigs). However, in the rainy season, great numbers of people move
north beyond the northern boundary of the area with their animals, so this
period records the lowest population density of the whole year (Annex 2).
Among the sedentary population, the degree of stability increases towards the
middle of the rainy season while people are cultivating.
6.        Migration into and out of the area is difficult to quantify.  Sur-
veys conducted by Hunting Technical Services indicate that in-migration ex-
ceeds out-migration in the last 20 years. Migration to the towns and agri-
cultural production schemes of East Central Sudan undoubtedly takes place.
Communities of Rizeiqat have been recorded at Qala on Nahal and Hawata in
Kassala Province (Kadouf, 1975). However, the Rizeiquat are relatively
prosperous compared with other seasonal migrants from the west. They share
with the Ma'aliya a dislike of manual agricultural labor. The recruiting
station set up at Ed Da'ein for the recruitment of seasonal workers for the
Gezira was closed due to lack of response. There are three main sources of
migration into the area: the West, Northern Darfur, and the Dinka areas to
the south. Many of these people come on a temporary basis as agricultural
laborers. The migrants from the West include people of West African origin.
They work in the main settlements taking various jobs at different times of
the year. Many of them work in the oil processing mills at Ed Da'ein. In
recent years, low rainfall in Northern Darfur has encouraged migration from
the north. These people originally came to the Rizeiqat homeland as laborers,
but many have settled as cultivators and have formed their own villages.
Water Resources
7.        In the Savanna Belt, all settlements are located close to or within
easy reach of natural watering points or artificial water supplies. The
stockroutes are carefully selected by nomadic pastoralists between dependable
water points, either natural or artifical. In the rural areas, the perennial
and seasonal streams and natural lakes and ponds supplemented by shallow
wells are the principal sources of water. The latter are usually located
in the dry beds of wadis.. Since 1947, the Rural Water Corporation (RWC)
has constructed a network of boreholes reaching into the Nubian and Umm
Rawaba sandstone aquifers under the sandy qoz areas. RWC also constructs
hafirs, which are artifically excavated and constructed reservoirs into which
surface run-off is diverted for storage. The hafirs are usually in the
clay soil areas.
8.        During the summer monsoon rain water is freely available in pools
lying on the surface and the population can therefore disperse over a wide
area. When the rains recede and surface water dries up, both people and
animals concentrate around perennial wells and natural or artificial pools.
For land to be cultivable, it must be within 12-15 km of permanent water,
as certain tasks have to be performed before the rains break and after
they have ceased (e.g. land clearing and harvesting). Approximately the



ANNEX 3
Page 4
same area limitations are imposed upon cattle herding, because although
cattle on migration can travel distances greater than 30 km in 48 hours,
the time spent walking is at the expense of grazing. The introduction
of tubewells in recent years has allowed sedentary communities to expand
into previously waterless and therefore uncultivated areas. Owners of
large herds of cattle are obliged to migrate southwards to the Bahr and
Regeba land systems during the dry season. Apart from a few pools, peren-
nial surface water for cattle is found only in the Bahr el Arab.
Land Tenure
9.        Under the Unregistered Land Act of 1970, nearly all land in the
Project area is Government owned. In Dar Ma'aliya in the north of Eastern
District, nearly all land is now allocated. Holdings are sub-divided between
heirs and rights are sometimes transferred with a form of payment. Continu-
ous cultivation may result in permanent acquisition of cultivation rights;
thus, absence may involve loss of rights (the exact circumstances under which
this would occur are imprecise). For example, among the Rizeiqat, rights to
a specific plot are not necessarily retained once cultivation is abandoned.
Thus the cultivator has no easy way of ensuring that others will not re-clear
the land before a planned period of bush fallow expires. Inheritance laws
are likewise vague. The customary view is that on death the right to culti-
vate passes to the descendant in most need. As scarcity of land increases,
so also does the number of disputes. In the event of a dispute, the prin-
ciples of Islamic law are applied and land is divided in equal shares among
male descendants and in half shares among females.
10.       Under customary law, there is free access to the open range.
Livestock owners are liable when damage to crops occurs, but free access to
water and grazing is assured. In practice different tribes tend to limit
their travels to more or less defined routes; flexibility prevails, however,
for rain pools and other water resources fill irregularly from year to year.
Rights to monopolise uncropped land by fence or force are not recognised;
frequent attempts to enclose are made by settled cultivators, but without
official sanction. These conflicting interests often given rise to bitter
disputes, and violence is at times the inevitable result.
January 28, 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Social and Political Organization in South Darfur Province 1/
I.  Social Institutions
A. Nomadic Pastoralists
1.        A complex social organization has evolved among the nomadic pas-
toralists; this organization of all phases of community life grew out of
the necessity to adapt to a sometimes harsh and uncompromising environment,
and out of the need to organize production, consumption and capital accumu-
lation at both the family and the tribal levels. The nomadic society is an
example of a way of life almost perfectly in tune with the precarious balance
of nature. The keystone of the survival of this social structure was the
total cooperation demanded by all members of the community. The pastoral
nomads move continuously with their families to find water and pasturage for
their animals. This cycle of movement is usually not a haphazard wandering
but is restricted to areas generally used by the specific tribe, and the
length of stay in one location is dependent on pasture conditions and water
supplies. The areas regularly used by specific tribes may be claimed as
tribal homelands. However, tribes do not have legal title to these lands; in
many cases, traditional rights are based on water point utilization.
The Farig
2.        The basic element of the social structure is the farig, or  camp
In the social sense it means a herding unit, nominally based on the agnatic 2/
relation of heads of domestic units traced from a common ancestor. The farig
is the minimal lineage. During the dry season when the nomadic groups are
concentrated in the South in the Bahr el Arab region, several farigs may
group together to form one "iyal ragl", - a group of descendants of one man,
usually composed of a maximum of three generations. Their houses are placed
next to each other, and they maintain one "rakuba" or "dara" - a place for
guests or visitors. The men who gather there are the farig elder, his
married sons, and occasionally his in-laws and other relatives.
1/   Based on findings of Huntings Technical Service and the National
Council for Research in the Sudan.
2/   Male decent on the father's side.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The elder is the spokeman by virtue of his age or wealth, and
has the authority to take decisions on behalf of his group. This is par-
ticulary true in cases with well known precedents, otherwise the other
members will be consulted. The herding policy is the concern of the whole
group but special attention is paid to the elders' opinion. Each married
man has the right of disposal over his own cattle. Animals owned by women
are marketed by male relative on their behalf. The large farig composed
of several iyal ragl is a dry season occurrence. In the rain season each
iyal ragl camps independently.
4.        There are several advantages gained from this grouping.  Division
of labor within the iyal ragl allows the men to follow interests, including
leisure time which is shared within the group. Secondly, through connection
with the groups, livestock owners can reduce their tax liability, for in
practice the tax assessment is a declining function of herd size; thus mem-
bers of the iyal ragl register under one name, that of the group elder
(para 5). Thirdly, within the farig, newly estabished households are
assisted through the early stages of development when their labor resources
are inadequate to manage independently.
Ownership of Cattle
5.        Almost all cattle owners originally obtained cattle from their
fathers or relatives as gifts on occasions such as birth, circumcision,
marriage, etc. Breeding animals owned by a child are not disposed of ex-
cept in extreme conditions. The father acts as guardian of his sons' wealth.
The number of animals owned expands through natural increase and purchase,
and later by inheritance. The main concern of the father is to build up
a herd for each son, and to test the boy's managerial ability during his
early life. About forty head of cattle is considered to meet the subsistance
needs of a domestic unit. Families with less must seek other income sources
or hold cattle for cultivating relatives. Due to these complex arrangements it
is extremely difficult to determine who owns a herd. For tax purposes, cattle
are registered under the name of the group elder. In theory, tax should be
paid on each adult animal, but in practice, taxes tend to be distributed
equally among owners without reference to the actual number of animals held
(Annex 19). This is acceptable to the nomads' value system in which there is
little social differentiation, ostentatious consumption or display of material
goods. It is well understood, therefore, that once tax has been assessed,
marginal increases in the herd have no effect on the tax levied. Small
owners therefore tend to avoid taxation by hiding behind their father, brother
or any close kin, nomad or settler.
Family Structure
6.        Within the transhumant community, the reproductive unit of husband,
wife or wives together with their children, does not necessarily correspond
to the domestic unit of the sedentary society. Although the ideal is for



ANNEX 4
Page 3
each domestic unit to be self-sufficient, cooperation and support is quite
common, especially in the early and later stages of family development.
All households are non-viable at their establishment. The husband's father
generally retains control of the cattle until the natural increase in the
herd allows the young family to manage and subsist independently. In farigs
which combine livestock and cultivation, it is often the newly married couples
who herd the cattle during the rains, while their parents or an elder brother
cultivate. Where the labor supply of the original family is plentiful,
the new household may cultivate from the time of its establishment in order
to avoid animal sales and to build up the herd with money obtained from the
sale of groundnuts. This depends on the presence of other sons in the farig
to assist with herding animals.
7.        In the next stage of family development, the nomadic household
should ideally subsist on the herd, as the length of marriage (ten years
or more) should have been sufficient to provide an adequate labor supply
and natural increase in the herd. A second marriage might increase family
numbers and extend the period of viability for the domestic unit. The
combination of stock-keeping and cultivating is easier for polygamous house-
holds, who need not depend on labor from other households. Often one wife
and her children cultivate, while the others move with the cattle during the
wet season to the North. In these cases, the husband may assist in the
initial stages of cultivation before moving north, but in general most of the
work and decision-making related to cultivation is the wife's responsibility.
Occasionally the elder son will be given the responsibility to take the cattle
north with his mother and young brothers and sisters, while his father stays
with the younger wife. Families reunite during the dry season at the Bahr el
Arab.
8.        As the children become of marriageable age, the cycle begins
again. If the married son takes over herding responsibilities, the original
family often cultivates larger areas of millet in order to provide grain for
their own food supply and for the newly established family of their son.
When most of the children of the original family are married and no more
births are likely, the aging parents become dependent on their married sons,
who, by this stage, have usually been given full control of the cattle they
are due to inherit. However, the authority and respect given to the parents
is not diminished. Divorced or widowed women are usually supported by a
brother, son or nephew. Viability of domestic units is rare in the establish-
ment and expansion phases, and in family decline. However, in the middle
phases, when family labor is plentiful, animal resources are usually adequate
to support a family without other income raising activities. When they are
inadequate, the flexible organization of the farig allows for cooperation
between households and specialization in the activity most suited to their
stage of development.
B. Crop Cultivation
9.        The migratory households need grain, which has to be obtained
from the market if there is insufficient surplus labor to produce it them-
selves. By agreement with their kin, some members might be released for



ANNEX 4
Page 4
cultivation to provide grain which would enable them to reduce sales of
breeding stock for grain purchases, and, if possible, raise money to pur-
chase productive females. In this case, cultivation would be considered
part of the family enterprise, the objective being the expansion of the
herd. Another common arrangement is for two brothers to alternate cul-
tivation and herding, one staying with the old father in the village and
the other migrating.
10.       For those families involved in crop production, the cultivation
of millet for household consumption is the first priority; to this end there
is close cooperation between the members of the domestic unit (i.e. parents
and children). The average family has a production target of about ten 100 kg
sacks of grain. Deficits are made up by "gubraka" crops; these are quick
matur-ing sorghum and okra cultivated by women in the vicinity of the house.
The average cropped area (excluding gubraka) per household is about 9 makhomas
(5.4 ha) of which two-thirds are devoted to millet (Annex 5).
11.       The area cultivated is related to the need and capacity of the
household, which depend on the stage the family has reached in the what
we may call "family development cycle". The first stage is the nuclear
family, composed of husband, wife and children working together. Generally
the husband makes the decisions relating to production, unless in polygamous
households a wife has a separate plot of her own. The second stage occurs
when a son wishes to marry. He may cultivate a cash crop on his own account
to raise money for the marriage, while his parents provide the grain supply.
In most cases, the father will assist his son in the cost of the marriage
and continue to be responsible for providing grain to the young family.
The son and his wife will concentrate on cultivating cash crops until their
own family expands (up to about four years). With the third stage they will
then become independent of the parents, choose their own place of residence
and cultivate both millet and groundnuts. The husband is now considered a
fully responsible man (ragil). The father retains some influence over the
son in community matters, as a member of the older generation, but this
does not extend to internal affairs of his son's household.
12.       The family is fully mobilized during the sowing and weeding period.
All other operations are divided between the sexes. For example, men are
usually responsible for land clearing and women for tending the gubraka,
looking after the house, threshing and winnowing. In the July/August period,
first weeding of millet and sowing of groundnuts coincide (in addition to
herding animals if the household has any). During this time the family might
move out from the village to save time travelling to the cultivated area.
There is little reliance on wage labor. Formerly, migrant labor came from the
Bahr el Ghazal, but recent disputes between members of the Rizeiquat and the
Dinka tribes have discouraged the Dinka from moving north in search of work.
The decline in the labor supply has effectively boosted wage levels, so that
few people are now able to afford hired labor. Payment for weeding is in-
variably based on piece work (i.e. ESd 4-5 per makhomas, US$17-21 per ha, at
the peak of the season), plus subsistence. This involves three or four days
work for an adult male. The working day does not exceed six hours, beginning



ANNEX 4
Page 5
after 6 a.m. and ending about noon. Large nafirs or communal work parties
are uncommon in the area but relatives and friends often give mutual support.
In those instances when nafirs are organized, it is on the basis of recipro-
city of phyical work.
13.       Those who have no savings in the form of stored grain and no live-
stock which can be sold for cash have no alternative but to hire themselves
to other producers or mortgage their crop to a merchant against advances
(sheil). This increases their dependence in subsequent years. This situa-
tion can develop following crop failure due to drought, pest and disease
outbreaks or illness. With the disintegration of the pre-market economy,
associated with the introduction of groundnuts as a cash crop in the last
fifteen years, more and more households are caught in this "poverty trap".
C. Interrelationships between Pastoralists and Cultivators
14.       Between the settled cultivators and the pastoralists there is
a network of social and economic relations. it is rare to find a settled
family which is not connected in some way to a nomadic one. Pastoralists
leave milking cows with the cultivators during the rains. This helps to
reduce expenditure by the cultivators on grain and provides cash from the
sale of milk and semn (butter oil). In turn the nomad family may receive
grain following the harvest. Due to the difficulties associated with.herd-
ing animals in the neighborhood of villages due to insufficient pasture and
water, cattle may be entrusted with a nomadic relative. The relative has
the benefit of the milk, butter oil, etc., and may receive additional in-
centives in the form of grain, animals, cash and clothing (often even a
herder may be provided by the owner). Partnerships exist where cattle is
loaned to a pastoralist against an agreed share in calves. People who work
in trade or government service and have relatives in the pastoralist sector
might send money for the purchase of cattle which are kept in the nomadic
herd.
15.       Thus it can be seen that the Savannah economy is not neatly
divided into two discrete sectors - crop production and livestock produc-
tion - but is in fact a continuum. The forms of social organization des-
cribed represent the ends of a spectrum in which the cultivator on depleted
soil without livestock is the most impoverished and the nomad with a large
herd the most prosperous. The basic of the social model is that cattle cons-
titute a store of wealth in an economy which offers no alternatives for saving
and investment. The simple technology of agriculture prevents a successful
cultivator from expanding his enterprise; cattle on the other hand can be
purchased by the sale of crop surpluses, and with good management they in-
crease in number and value. Thus a successful cultivator becomes first a



ANNEX 4
Page 6
transhumant, since he has to leave his village to obtain pasture for his
animals during certain times of the year, and if his herd increases to a
certain point, it becomes his main occupation.
16.       The opposite transition also takes place.  A nomad may lose many
of his cattle by disease, drought or other forms of natural disaster, so
that he is obliged to place greater emphasis on cultivation in order to
obtain the necessary resources to rebuild his herd. If he continues to
lose animals, he may become solely dependent on cultivation. Furthermore,
the decreasing returns from animal husbandry have resulted in the increasing
marginality of the pastoral economy.
17.       The validity of the model is borne out by a comparison of the
southern and eastern districts of South Darfur Province. In the former
the increasing erosion of the pastoral existence has lead to the adoption
of crop cultivation, which in turn has further aggravated the situation
and created a vicious circle. In the Eastern Council area the Rizeiqat
tribe (which constitutes the vast majority of the population by virtue of
its policy of expansion through assimilation of people from other tribes)
has thus far successfully delayed the deterioration of the nomadic system.
However, even in this area the equilibrium remains unstable, and if the
proposed development program should fail, this area too would follow the
pattern set in the south.
II. Political Institutions
A. Traditional Institutions
18.       Historically, an important feature of the traditional social
system has been the concentration of judicial and administrative authority
in the post of the omda (leader of the administrative sub-division of the
tribe). Apart from his official status, he was an hereditary leader to
whom people came to resolve disputes and obtain advice. In these tribal
matters he was accustomed to use his initiative, reporting to Government
only when he considered it necessary.
19.       In theory, The Peoples Local Government Act of 1971 diminished
the authority of the leaders; in practice, however, it may have increased it.
Although the sheikhs (Government-appointed officials traditionally respons-
ible to the omda) are now directly responsible to the Rural Councils (para 34)
and not to the omda, and his judicial authority no longer receives legal
sanction, he remains the acknowledged head of his tribal section. The people
still seek his arbitration in disputes rather than travel long distances
to the official courts and face delays and legal fees. The new arrange-
ments probably make him more careful in seeking solutions which will receive
popular support. Any judgements which might decrease his popularity, tend



ANNEX 4
Page 7
to be passed on to the legally recognised authorities. The omda is expected
to defend the group's interest in disputes with other groups. Following the
abolition of the post of nazir (tribal leader), the symbol of tribal solidarity
and power, the omda has become the rallying point for local (tribal) sec-
tional interests. The power of the omda has also increased as a result of
the pressure on land resources; it is his traditional right to allocate all
unsettled or unclaimed land within the omodiya.
20.       A sheikh is appointed by Government to collect the tribal animal
tax. Formerly he was responsible to the omda but now he must report to
the council officer, although he will often seek the advice of the omda
first in order to formulate the best strategy for the interview. His post
brings him little political authority; any importance he may have is the
result of his position as a tribal elder.
21.       The mandoub (originally a personal representative of the nazir,
responsible for the collection of certain dues) works with the omdas and
sheikhs in collecting the tribal animal tax, especially from the nomads.
In recent years the traditional duties of mandoub have not only survived
the abolition of the nazir's position, but have been extended to include
control over the use of pasture and hashab resources. It is noteworthy that
the administrative solution has been based on the extension of traditional
institutions rather than the creation of new offices within the framework of
the Local Government Act.
22.       There are five pasture mandoubs on the stockroutes.  Their job
is to supervise nomadic movements in the Bahr el Arab region and see that
Rural Council orders are adhered to. The post was introduced following the
1974 Safaha Conference to resolve the dispute between the Rizeiqat and the
Malwal Dinka tribes. These mandoubs are neither paid Government officials
nor elected tribal representatives, but partly combine both these somewhat
conflicting roles. The mandoubs are usually owners of large herds. Their
task is to communicate orders from the Rural Council to people in the area
and report back on the local situation. The mandoubs do not have legal
powers (such as arrest and detention) to enforce a Government order; neither
do they have the prestige enjoyed by paid officials such as sheikhs and
omdas.
23.       In addition to the tax collecting sheikhs (sheikh el daftar),
there are others who have honorary and unofficial titles as sheikhs. A man
may be given the title of sheikh as the first settler in an area, or because
he claims rights over large areas of land (sheikh el ard) and arranges its
allocation for annual cropping and hashab collection. These roles are local-
ized and usually hereditary or, perhaps, vested in the elder or wisest in the
community.
Arbitration Committee
24.       The Arbitration committees are unofficial committees which filter
out complaints and grievances before they become the subject of major dis-
putes, thus saving the administration and courts a great deal of time and



ANNEX 4
Page 8
trouble. Membership of the committee depends upon the gravity of the case.
If the dispute is of a local and petty nature, the committee will be made
up of elders of the farig or village, but when inter-tribal matters are
involved, members should be omdas, important sheikhs or people of standing
in the tribe. Unless these people are present, the decisions of the com-
mittee are not binding. Once the tribal leaders have consented to the
arbitrators' ruling, the honor of the tribe is at stake.
Land Rights
25.       The customary rights governing cultivation of crops, harvesting
of hashab, hunting, gathering or roots, fruits, honey, etc., and grazing
and watering of livestock have evolved over centuries. The tribal elders
are the custodians of these unwritten laws and their knowledge is the basis
of their authority. Every piece of land, however remote, is the subject
of customary rights. These rights are jealously guarded; wars are fought to
defend them. They consequently invoke the Unregistered Land Act of 1970
(U.L.A.) which declared that all waste, forest and unregistered lands are to
be regarded as Government Land.
26.       Kadouf (1975) has reported on customary land law in Kassala
Province, where the general principles appear to be the same as in Southern
Darfur. The main points are:
(a)  In former days, land was owned by the whole community
and held in trust by the Nazir. Following the U.L.A.
(1970) this ownership has passed to the Government.
It is widely recognized that all land as such is
Government property held in trust by the Omda and
therefore all other persons may be regarded as mere
interest holders. Although people recognise and
admit the above, they may at ti1es insist on their
personal right to use a piece of land on the basis
that it has been theirs for many years and this is
invariably upheld by the authorities.
(b) A clear distinction is drawn between the right to
cultivate the soil (i.e. sow and harvest annual crops)
The right to cultivate the soil is usually vested
in individuals once the land has been cleared from
bush. The ownership of hashab trees is also private
once it has been registered, but the enjoyment of the
right of way to water or grazing land are said to be
natural rights, open to any member of the community



ANNEX 4
Page 9
The rights to collect wood for domestic fires, fencing,
etc., are also common, except that only dead wood may
be taken from a hashab tree. Since ownership of lands
does not exist, it follows that the ownership of grass
does not flow from the possession of a genein (hashab
garden) or agricultural land automatically - that is
because cutting and using grass are communal rights. If
the owner of the field wishes to take grass from his
field for his own use, he must first cut it and bundle
it; in which case none may touch it.
(c) The rights to graze crop residues are likewise held in
common unless it (the gassab) is first gathered and
bundled. Nobody has the right to erect fences to keep
out animals from grazing natural pastures. People
often attempt to do so, but their right to compensa-
tion is not upheld by the courts should the fences be
broken and animals enter.
27.       Among the Ma'aliya, Birgid and Rizeiqat the customary laws govern-
ing land rights reflect the particular history of land settlement and use
of their tribal areas. At the time of the settlement of Dar Ma'aliya, the
perennial water resources were confined to scattered wells and Tebeldi
trees, hence there were no great concentrations of population. The Ma'aliya
thus acquired rights to vast areas of land.  The rights to clear and culti-
vate unallocated land were vested in the community, personified in the Omda
and delegated to land sheikhs. Cultivators seeking right to unallocated land
obtained them from the land sheikh.
28.       Among the Rizeiqat, interest in cultivation is relatively recent.
Hence the statement that all land is owned by the Government is more fre-
quently heard among those wishing to obtain land - although this attitude
quickly disappears as land is cleared and cultivated. The rate of clear-
ing is extremely rapid in South Darfur due to migration from North Darfur.
Further, interest in hashab planting has increased following recent price
rises. The present trend is towards the adoption of land tenure system
similar to that of their close neighbors.
Role of the Land Sheikh
29.       The land sheikh (Ma'aliya) or village sheikh (Rizeiqat) is the
person responsible for allocating land. In recently settled areas (e.g.
in the area of new boreholes) the post of land sheikh is honorary, con-
ferring status on the holder. The post of land or village sheikh is held
by an elder of the village. Before the sheikh may allocate cultivation
rights certain conditions must be fulfilled: the land must not be in dis-
pute; it must not restrict the extension of another person's cultivation;



ANNEX 4
Page 10
and the cultivator must agree to abide by customary law, e.g. payment of
zakat to the Land Sheikh. The sheikh has no authority to refuse to grant
a cultivator rights if the above conditions are fulfilled unless there
are grave reasons and these are upheld by the local community. Such an
incident rarely occurs. In cases where disputes over land reach the court,
the land sheikh will be called as a witness. Sheikhs often sit on arbitra-
tion committees for the settlement of disputes between neighboring villages.
(para 24).
Rights of the Cultivator
30.       Once permission has been granted according to local custom and
the area demarcated by the land sheikh, a newcomer can begin to clear his
land. In areas where the tenure system is not rigid, as in Dar Ma'aliya,
the cultivator will be simply told to demarcate the land himself. The
nearest land sheikh or his deputy should be aware of the boundaries in
case disputes arise later. The cultivator has full rights to sow and har-
vest once the area has been agreed and demarcated. In cases where the land
allocated is part of another cultivator's holding, the original right holder
may define certain conditions. This may involve a share of the produce
or, simply, akil go'om (feed and go) in which the cultivator can use the
land, but if he leaves the village he retains no rights over it., Cultivation
rights cannot be transferred without the permission of the original owner.
The rules which apply if a cultivator leaves the village differ according to
the place. In Dar Ma'aliya, the rights tend to continue, mainly because of
hashab, unless the cultivator expresses that he has no intention of returning.
The general rule elsewhere is that rights cannot be transferred until three
cultivating seasons have elapsed since the date of the last harvest. This
allows a cultivator the opportunity to return to his village should he
fail to establish himself in a new area. In Dar Ma'aliya there is no
limitation on the area which can be held after clearing the land, but in
Dar Rizeiqat the holding is limited to the cultivated area. Adjacent land
may be reserved by the cultivator to enable him to extend his cultivation.
Cultivation rights may be transferred from one person to another without
the authority of the sheikh. Thus on the infirmity or death of the right
holder, land naturally passes to relatives.
Communal Rights
31.       A fundamental precept of the Baggara (cattlemen) is that grazing
and water are free; no man may monopolise them by fencing or force. This
survival principle ensures that in years of inadequate or irregular rainfall,
a herder can move freely in search of pasture. Free access to free-standing
water is also guaranteed. Exceptions are:
(a) hand dug wells and adjacent clay hods (drinking trough
for animals) which are considered private to the builder
and the site is reserved from season to season; and



ANNEX 4
Page 11
(b) the dry season farig site, which is customarily reserved
from year to year.
In times of stress, the fraternal attitude among tribes inevitably breaks
down and attempts are made to intimidate outsiders. For example, the
Rizeiqat omdas blame other tribes for the overgrazing in Dar el Rizeiqat,
particularly the Fellata Mbororo.
32.       The customary laws described above were no doubt adequate for
safeguarding the production process in the pre-market economy and before
livestock and human populations built up to their present levels. Dis-
putes over land rights, particularly hashab, and conflicts between different
interest groups (tribes) over land rights are increasing. These problems
will not be solved by ad hoc local Government orders which are inevitably
based on inadequate information and often fail to take account of the con-
straints imposed by prevailing systems of land use. The way must be pre-
pared for fundamental changes in land law; these changes should ideally
allow for:
(a) Government ownership with individual rights of usufruct
for farmers in order to encourage the introduction of sus-
tained agricultural production. The leaseholder 1/
must have the right to rest part of the holding under
bush fallow for an adequate period without fear of los-
ing it. The conditions of land use rights must in-
clude also private rights over the bush fallow, crop
residues and forage, and the right to erect a fence
(Annex 5).
(b)  Government grant of long-term right of usufruct of the
range in order to permit the introduction of range manage-
ment and controlled stocking.
(c) Revision of the present systems relating to gumarabic
tree usage rights which are being abused as de facto
cultivation rights.
1/   This term may be somewhat misleading as the settlers are not
expected to be required to pay any rent over the Project period.
Rent would be collected only at a later date when the settlers
have become successfully established on the land. Land use
would most probably be organized as a right of usufruct.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
B. Modern Local Administration
33.       Before the Condominium Government 1/ gave official recognition
to tribal leaders, the leadership of the Baggara was dynamic but unstable.
Loyalty was based partly on agnatic kinship and partly on a client-patron
relationship. The Condominium Government froze this situation by recognis-
ing groups and leaders as they existed at that time. In the case of the
Ma'aliya, where the power structure was diffused, leaders were imposed
upon the people. The importance of agnatic descent increased because the
Government decided to work through agnatic groups and because security made
conflict between political and agnatic loyalty less likely. The standard
pattern was that of a nazir, supported by several omdas with a large number
of sheikhs below. All had magisterial powers exercising customary law,
and matters such as tax assessment and collection were their responsibility.
They were the agents of Government policy. The role of these leaders was
ambiguous. There was a belief that they could be used as part of the admin-
istrative hierarchy and still represent the people. However, few would claim
that it was an innovative bureaucracy, geared for the implementation of rural
development.
34.       In 1951 the Sudan adopted the Marshall report and created a nation-
wide system of Rural Councils. A Rural Council was set up at Ed D'ein which
served the area now called Eastern District Council. The objective was
to dismantle the scaffolding of central administration and allow self-governing
democracy to take root through: (a) the creation of a large number of local
councils to manage their own affairs in a spirit of self-reliance and to
initiate local development projects; (b)- the granting of greatly enhanced
powers to provincial commissioners, largely through ministerial decentral-
ization. For a number of reasons, the outcome was not as successful as was
expected.
35.       South Darfur Province was established in 1974 when the former
Darfur Province was split in two. Since the Peoples Local Government Act
of 1971, a process of decentralized. Government administration has been
introduced in an attempt to involve local people in decision making. A
pyramidal structure of Provincial, District, Town, Rural, Village and Nomad
Councils is being created on which elected and Government nominated members
sit. The provincial administration is headed by a Provincial Commissioner
(PC) who is head of the Provincial Executive Council (PEC), head of the
Sudan Socialist Union (SSU) in the Province, and who has ministerial status
(Chart, World Bank 16620). The PEC is responsible for compiling and admin-
istering the provincial budget (including all local and Government services)
and for legislation and administration. Assistant Commissioners represent
each of the major Government departments and receive technical support
1/   A governing body which exercised authority over the Sudan before
the country's independence (1956); it consisted of representatives
of the governments of Egypt and Great Britain.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
from parent ministry departments in Khartoum.  District and Rural Councils
are now in the process of being established throughout the Province; these
are ultimately intended to replace the traditional authorities who have
historically regulated all aspects of tribal life. At the present time,
however, the traditional authorities still play an important role in the
daily affairs of their people.
36.       The proposed Project would be located in the Eastern District of
South Darfur Province. This District now has a District Council, which pre--
sides over two Rural Councils - the Ed Da'ein and Abu Matariq Rural Councils.
In terms of Government services, Ed Da'ein dominates the Eastern District
Council. The Assistant Commissioner is based in Ed Da'ein and the rural
council has an executive officer and four assistant executive officers. Abu
Matariq has only one assistant executive officer at present.
37.       Each of the Rural Councils oversees several village/Nomad/
Section Councils. Ed Da'ein has 24 councils; these are:
Large                      Mledium                       Small
Ed Da'ein                 Kileikli                    Gad es Sid
Abu Karinka               Augabo                      El Gallabi
Adila                     Dar es Salaam               Akulkul
Hazrub                    Hillal                      El Ligam
Gimelaya                  El Tabat                    Bakheit
Sharif                    Umm Dei                     Chazala Gawazat
Ma'ali                      Wazazin
Shaqq el Leyun              Umm Qereigo
Rahal el Gimelaya           Rahal el Gabra
Abu Matariq has 15 councils; these are:
Abu Matariz                      Haraza
Abu Gabra                        Far' el Habil
Hadkuk Hamad                      Safaha
Madkuk el Bashir                 Sarafaya
Abu Sinedira                      Sahala Nakata
Furdus                           Sinun
Goghan                           El Farash
El Rutrut
These councils are intended to be the primary local Government units.
Councillors are recruited from the various popular organizations (Village
Development Committees, Sudan Socialist Union, Youth and Women's Organiza-
tions), and Government officials in the area (school teachers, wateryard
clerks, etc.). One quarter of the total membership should be filled by



ANNEX 4
Page 14
women. The Rural Council Executive Officer is the secretary of the
councils. Meetings should be held bi-monthly. The Local Government
Act does not lay down the functions of the village councils, but basi-
cally they provide a forum for the mutual exchange of information between
the prople and the local government authorities, and help mobilise com-
munity support for the improvement of social services.
38.       It appears that the function of the councils is not yet clear
to the people or the councillors. Most of the day to day problems involv-
ing the rural economy are handled by the old institutions. A basic problem
arises from the fact that the Village Council has no budgetary powers.
Proposals from the council for services are inevitably turned back to the
councillors to implement on a "self-help" basis because of the shortage of
rural council funds. Moreover, effective development of the new adminis-
trative structure has been impaired mainly due to a lack of development
funding; for example, in 1974/75, the Province's approved capital budget
was iSd 200,000, of which bSd 150,000 had to be used for recurrent expenditures
due to a shortfall in local revenues. The implementation of these changes has
also been hampered by the lack of an overall planning framework. It is
evident that the local administrations will require significant strengthening
of both management and technical staff before they are capable of undertaking
the successful management of a major development program.
C. Future Role of Modern Local Government and
Traditional Insitutions
39.       As Abdel Ghaffar Muhammed Ahmed (1973) 1/ has pointed out, the word
"tribe" (or the Arabic synonym "gabila") suggests a primitive group, bound
by kinship under chiefly authoritarian rule, and this definition does not
fit the groups found in Central Sudan. The word "tribe" suggests a soli-
darity and uniformity which in reality does not exist. For example, the
Rizeiqat are popularly conceived as a nomadic pastoral group and the Ma'aliya
as a sedentary group of cultivators (Annex 3, para 3). These ideas are held
by outsiders as well as the people themselves, but they obsecure important
variations within the groups. The Rizeiqat and the Ma'aliya are best de-
fined as loosely affiliated political groups - shifting alliances of vested
interests bent on the exploitation of particular territorial resources. By
fostering and maintaining an identity, they are better able to retain control
over these land resources and extend them.
40.       The most pressing problem of this stage is in what manner Government
should link these groups to the development effort, for there is no reason
to believe that strong local interests are inimical to development provided
1/   Source:  National Council for Research in the Sudan.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
they are given the necessary responsibility, guidance and resources. First it
seems necessary to utilize to the fullest extent the traditional institutions
which clearly serve vital needs. In 1971 there was an attempt to sweep them
away with the Local Government Act. The attitude of Central Government was in
many respects justified, because they were associated with systems of land use
which Government wished to replace; however, the attempts to replace the
traditional rural institutions have thus far not been completely successful
(para 34). The norms, values and organization of the so-called "past-rule"
underline the response of local groups to Government initiatives. The majority
of political disputes are still settled in accordance with the traditional
systems. Although decisions may be finalized by the new Government institu-
tions, such as the People's Councils, People's Courts, etc., these bodies, to
a large degree, retain the procedures of the old system.
41.       The persistence of the traditional institutions is evidence of
their relevance to the prevailing systems of resource use. The omdas,
sheikhs, mandoubs, arbitration committees, etc., regulate production and
consumption and the distribution of wealth to a large extent within the rural
community. The Village Councils, whose powers have yet to be clearly defined,
appear to the mass of people to have little immediate relevance to the serious
business of stockkeeping and cultivating. It is no accident that the only
place that the Councils have taken root is in the principal market centers,
i.e. in a semi-urban environment, where they can influence Government policy
in relation to the provision of services (schools, hospitals, water supplies,
etc.).
42.       The envisaged modernization of agricultural production creates a
need for meaningful local participation in planning and implementation and
provides an opportunity to establish the Councils in rural areas. Wherever
possible, care should be taken to fashion the traditional roles of omdas,
sheikhs, mandoubs, etc., to fit the new system. The Local Government Act
(1971) must, however, provide the ideological and operational framework within
which these changes are to be brought about.
43.       In terms of the Project, this approach is particularly important
and relevant in relation to resettlement of farmers and the introduction of
agricultural production and range management systems including the demarcation
of migratory stock routes. Since it is clear that the allocation of grazing
right to individual groups of pastoralists goes against traditional concepts
of free grazing, it appears that the only valid approach would be to seek the
full participation of the pastoralists both during the planning and implemen-
tation stages and eventually to rely on them to supervise and enforce the
accepted interventions. It would appear that the traditional institutions have
a major role to play in all aspects of this development.
January 28, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POLITICAL INSTITUTIONS
| Province Council     |
Western District Council                           Central District Council                              Southern District' Council                           Eastern District` Council
Zalingei         Garsila         Nyertete           Nyala            Kas              Nyala                       Ghanaram                                                     n         u  atar
Rural           Rural               ral           Rural            Rural            Town                                              ra                                ur
Council         Council          C      ouncuncil                  Council           Council                                           u                                ou
| Village Councils                                                                                       |2Vilage | |15 Village|
Councils          Councils 
'Area covered by ODM/Abu Dhabi Project.
2Area covered by proposed IDA Project.
World Bank-1 6620



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Assumptions
I. Water Facilities and Buildings
Hafir Construction
1.        The construction unit would employ 9.2 m  carry-all scrapers pulled
with 140 hp crawler tractors as the basic machines for excavating twenty
hafirs over a four year period. The working time per year was assumed as
follows:
Days in year ---------------------- 365
Less Holidays ---------------------  75
Less Rainy Season -----------------  90
Net Working Days ------------------ 200
Net Working Hours at 8 hrs/day -- 1,600
It was assumed that each hafir would be 6.5 m deep and the tog dimensions
would be 91 x 46 m 1/ and the bottom dimensions would be 40 x 20 m 2/; the
end slopes would be four horizontal to one vertical and the side slopes would
be two hsrizontal to one vertical. The total excavated volume would be
15,000 m s Twenty hafirs would then require enough earth moving units to move
300,000 m of earth in five years with one year lost to mobilization. Follow-
ing is the computation for earth moving equipment requirements.
Average cycle for each machine with an average haul of 85 m horizon-
tally and five m vertically. This assumes the toe of the spoil bank being
10 m from the top of the excavation at each end and 5 m along the sides with
the spoil bank being 3.5 m high and having a four m top and 2:1 side slopes.
1/   100 yards x 50 yards.
2/   44 yards x 22 yards.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Load time ------------------------------- 1.4 minutes
Haul time loaded ------------------------ 1.7 minutes
Dump and turn time ---------------------- 4.0 minutes
Shift time ------------------------------ 0.4 minutes
Haul time empty ------------------------- 1.0 minutes
Average cycle for each machine with an average haul of 85 m horizon-
tally and five m vertically. This assumes the toe of the spoil bank being
10 m from the top of the excavation at each end and 5 m along the sides with
the spoil bank being 3.5 m high and having a four m top and 2:1 side slopes.
Load time ------------------------------- 1.4 minutes
Haul time loaded ------------------------ 1.7 minutes
Dump and turn time ---------------------- 4.0 minutes
Shift time ------------------------------ 0.4 minutes
Haul time empty ------------------------- 1.0 minutes
Total Cycle Time --------------------- 8.5 minutes
Assuming the bank capacity as 80% of loose capacity, the scraper would exca-
vate, haul and place 0.8 x 9.2 or 7.36 m of earth every 8.5 minutes at 100%
efficiency. However, since the earth moving operation would be carried out
at twenty locations, which would cause loss of time for moving, and the
machines wouldn't be operating a full hour all the time, it was assumed that
an efficiency factor of 50% would be re sonable.  Under these conditions the
machine would move an average of 7.36 m of earth every 17 minutes and it
would take        300,000 (the total volume involved)
7.36 (the bank capacity of each)         X
(scraper                   )
17 (average cycle time)   = 11548
60 (minutes per hour)
hours of scraper time to complete the earth work. As there are 1,600 working
hours in a year and four years to do the work it would require
11548 (working hours)
1600 (working hours in year) x 4 (years available) = 1.8 or 2 earth moving
machines.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Therefore, the earth moving unit including support equipment would consist of
the following:
2 - 140 he Crawler Tractors
2 - 9.2 m Carryall Scrapers
1 - 105 hp Dozer
I - Ripper
I - Fuel Trailer
1 - Grease Truck
1 - Water Tanker with Pump
1 - Utility Truck
1 - 4 Wheel Drive Pick-up
Operating Costs
2.        In calculating the annual operating costs, the following assumptions
were made:
Four Wheel Drive
Fuel (Gasoline)
1540 Ig 1/ at 0.43 ----------------------------    Sd  662
Oil and Lubricants
20% of Fuel Cost ------------------------------    Sd  132
Repairs
50% of Fuel Cost ------------------------------    Sd  331
Total Annual Cost --------------------------- i Sd 1125
Trucks
Fuel (Diesel) ---------------------------------   3.76 Ig/h
Oil -------------------------------------------   0.08 Ig/h
Grease ----------------------------------------   0.02 kg./h
Repairs would be made by mechanics employed on the Project with parts
supplied by Project.
1/   (Imperial gallon) = 4.53 liters



ANNEX 5
Page 4
105 hp Tractor
Diesel Fuel --------------------------------- 2.80 Ig/h
Oil ----------------------------------------- 0.07 Ig/h
Grease -------------------------------------- 0.02 kg./h
Repairs would be made by mechanics employed on the Project with parts
supplied by the Project.
Generators
3.        The 25 kw generator would probably be powered by a diesel engine
with a nominal horse power of 60 (25 kw x 1.34 (1 kw = 1.34 hp) x 1.8
mechanical loss factor). It is assumed that the engine would consume
0.2 liter of fuel per hp hour. Assuming the generator would operate 1160
hours per year (290 working days x 4 h per day) the following annual operat-
ing cost would be incurred:
Fuel - 3000 Ig at 0.43   ---------------------      Sd  1290
Oil - 1290 x 0.2 ----------------------------- b Sd   258
Miscellaneous (10% x 1290 + 258) ------------- - Sd   155
Total Annual Operating Cost ----------------     Sd  1703
Say E Sd  1700
Similarly, the 10 kw generator would require an engine with a nominal horse
power of 25.  Annual operating cost would be as follows:
Fuel - 1275 Ig    at 0.43 -------------------- 1 Sd  548
Oil - 548 x 0.2 (assuming that 20% of fuel
cost is cost of oil)            lb Sd  110
Miscellaneous (0.10 x 548 + 110) ------------- 1 Sd   66
Total --------------------------------------- b Sd  724, Say E Sd 700



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Well Pumps
4.        In order to estimate the operating costs for the engines and
pumps in the Province, the following assumptions and calculations were
made:
Assumptions -
(i)    200 pumps and engines operating.
(ii)   Engines use six hp while pumping.
(iii)  Engines consume 0.44 lb 1/ fuel per hp hour.
(iv)   Pumps and engines operate ten hours.
(v)    Water wastage 20%
(vi)   Total head pumped is 86 m   (From inspection of ground
water maps)
(vii)  Pump efficiency is 45%
Calculations -
Fuel Consumption:
6 hp x 0.441b
9.6 lb per Ig = 0.281 Ig - per h for each engine.
200 engines x 0.28 Ig/h x 10 hrs x 300 days = 168000 Ig
per year.
Assuming 10% wastage 185000 Ig per year would be needed
Spare Parts:
200 pumps and engines operating at bSd 3000 each. Spare parts
are 20% of cost of equipment and should last five years;
therefore annual cost of spare parts would be:
200 x 3000 x 0.2 = bSd 24000
5
1/   200 gr.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Well Production
The volume pumped was computed using the following calculation:
3
m /h  =  (274.116) (E)  (hp)
H
Where:
E = Overall pump efficiency as a decimal
hp = Brake horse power
H = Total pumping head
In this case using above assumptions:
E = 45%
hp = 6
H = 86m
m /h = (274.116) (0.45) (6) = 8.61 for each well.
86
Although there are probably 300 wells in the province due to standbys, it is
assumed that 200 are operating at one time. Therefore, total well production
per year would be:
8.61 m /h x 200 wells x 10 h/day x 300 days/year = 5.166 x 10  m3
With a 20% wastage due to spillage, leaks, etc., there would be a net
production of 4.13 x 10  m  which would bring revenue.
Equipment Freight Costs
5.        Freight costs from Port Sudan to Nyala were obtained from the
Sudan Railways Corporation and are listed below.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(E Sd)
Carry-all Scraper - 11 ton -  Freight -          330
Loading -         55
Total            385
140 hp Tractor - 14 ton    -  Freight -          350
Loading -         76
Total            426
105 HP Tractor - 11 ton      - Freight -         275
Loading -         55
Total   -        330
Wheel Loader - 18 ton         - Freight -        450
Loading -         97
Total            547
Ripper - 3 ton                - Freight -         75
Loading -         10
Total   -         85
Foreign Exchange, Taxes and Duties
6.        The foreign exchange cost of imported goods was assumed to be
the cost at Port Sudan. To obtain the total cost to the Project, the load-
ing cost, transportation cost, and duty were added. The percentages for
foreign exchange and duty were computed as follows:
E =      Cps         and Dp=       D
Cps +  F + D              Cps + F + D
where E = % Foreign Exchange
C   =  Cost at Port Sudan
Ps
F   =  Freight and Loading Costs to Project
D   =  Duty
Dp = % Duty



ANNEX 5
Page 8
For example the percentages of foreign exchange and duty for the 140 hp
Tractor was computed as follows:
Cps  =  hSd 26400
D    =  40% of 26400 or 10560
F    =  bSd 426
Then E =   26400                                  10560
26400 + 426 + 10560 = 71  and  Dp = 26400 + 426 + 10560 = 28
The duty on all goods was obtained from the Sudan Customs Department and tax
rate for staff was furnished by the Ministry of Public Services and Administra-
tive Reform.
Surveying Equipment
7.        A set of surveying equipment would consist of the following (prices
in L Sd):
1 - Transit ------------- at 450  -----------------  450
1 - Level   ------------- at 360  -----------------  360
2 - Range Poles --------- at  20  -----------------   40
2 - Level Rods ---------- at  30  -----------------   60
2 - Stadia Boards ------- at  40  -----------------   80
4 - Axes ---------------- at  12  -----------------   48
1 - Drafting Table ------ at  80  -----------------   80
1 - Drafting Equip ------ at 120  -----------------  120
2 - Steel Tapes ----- at  30  -----------------   60
Miscellaneous -------  -  - -------------           140
Total -------------------------------------- 1438
Wateryard Operation and Maintenance
8.        In order to compute water charges necessary to pay the expenses of
operation and maintenance it was necessary to prepare a model annual budget
and make certain assumptions in regard to the volume of water produced at each
wateryard. Following is the model annual budget to cover the operation and
maintenance of an estimated 200 water yards in the province.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Wateryard Operation and Maintenance
for 200 Wateryards
(E Sd)
A.   Administration
Salaries and Wages
1 -  Director of Operation and Maintenance at 3200                   3200
1 -  Assistant Director for Personnel at 2700                        2700
1  -  Budget Officer                                                 2700
1  -  Personnel Clerks at 700                                        1400
2  -  Clerk-Typists at 700                                           1400
1 -  Messenger at 350                                                 350
1  -  Driver at 800                                                   800
Allowances 10%                                                 1250
Sub-Total                              13,800
Vehicles
1 -  Four Wheel Drive Pick-up Operation at 1125                      1100
Sub-Total                                1100
Materials and Supplies
Office Supplies                                                       100
Tires (Assume 2 years life at 160 per set)                            100
Sub-Total                                 200
Reserves
Vehicle Replacement - (Assuming vehicles cost 4600 and must
be replaced every five years)                                       900
Office Equipment - (Assuming tVere is 64 m  office space
and equipment costs 30 per m and must be replaced every
ten years                                                           200
Spare Parts - Assuming spare parts are 20% of Vehicle
Replacement)                                                        200
Sub-Total                                1300
Total Administration                                             16400



ANNEX 5
Page 10
B.   Maintenance
Salaries and Wages
1 -  Chief Maintenance Engineer at 3000                             3000
1  -  Chief Mechanical Engineer at 2700                             2700
4  -  Assistant Mechanical Engineer at 1600                         6400
1 - Administrative Officer at 2400                                  2400
1 -  Accountant at 1200                                             1200
2  -  Stores Clerks at 700                                          1400
2  -  Clerk Typists at 700                                          1400
5  - Maintenance Supervisors at 900                                 4500
9  - Maintenance Mechanics at 800                                   7200
18  -  Drivers at 800                                               14400
12  -  Assistant Drivers at 300                                      3600
94  - Laborers at 300                                               28200
Allowances 10%                                               7600
Sub-Total                               84000
Vehicles
6  -  Four Wheel Drive Pick-up Operation at 1125                   6800
12  -  Truck Operation at 2000                                     24000
Generator Operation                                          6000
Sub-Total                               36800



ANNEX 5
Page 11
Materials and Supplies
Tires                                                                2700
Spare Parts 1/                                                      24000
Shop and Office Supplies                                             1000
Structure Maintenance 2 1/2% of 450000                              11300
Pipe and Valves 200 x 47                                             9400
Sub-Total                               48,400
Reserves
Vehicle Replacement - (Assuming vehicles cost i Sd 303000
and must be replaced every five years)                            60600
Office Equipment - (Assuming 114 m  of office space and
equipment costs of E Sd 30/m   and must be replaced
every ten years)                                                    600
Shop Equipment - (Asluming 792 m  of shop space and equipment
costs of i Sd 13 m  and must be replaced every seven years)    1500
Generator Replacement - (Assuming generator cost h Sd 18000
and must be replaced every five years)                             3600
Pump and Engine Replacement - (Assuming 300 pumps and
engines at E Sd 3000 each and a replacement cycle
of ten years)                                                     90000
Meter Replacement - Assuming 200 meters at E Sd 225
annually                                                           4500
Sub-Total                              160,800
Total Annual Maintenance                                      330,000
1/   Annex 5, Page 5.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
C.   Operation
Salaries and Wages
1  -  Assistant Director for Operations at 3000                      3000
2  -  Chief Accountant at 2700                                       2700
5  -  Accountants at 1200                                            6000
10  -  Assistant Accountants at 900                                   9000
200  -  Collection Clerks at 800                                     160000
200  -  Pump Operator - Mechanics at 700                             140000
60000
200 - Laborers at 300
Allowances 10%                                                37900
Sub-Total                               418600
Vehicles
1  -  Four Wheel Drive Pick-up Operation                             1100
Sub-Total                                  1100
Materials and Supplies
Office Supplies                                                      2000
Diesel Fuel - 18500 Ig x 0.43                                       79550
Oil and Grease (20% of fuel cost)                                   15950
Tires (two year life at i Sd 160 per set)                             100
Sub-Total                                97600
Reserve for Vehicle Replacement                                    900
Total Operation Costs                                           518300
Total Operation and Maintenance Costs                              864600
(Recoverable Costs)
Using the production figure for wells obtained under paragraph four one m
of water would cost 864,600 - 4.13 x 10  = bSd 0.21.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
9.        It is assumed that the capital cost of each wateryard would break
down as follows:
E Sd      US$
Complete Production Borehole ---------------------   18,000   45,000
Reservoir and Piping -----------------------------    5,000   12,500
Fountains and Troughs ----------------------------         800    2,000
Water Meter and Box ------------------------------          500    1,250
Pump House ---------------------------------------    1,000    2,500
Fence --------------------------------------------         700    1,750
Total -----------------------------------------   26,000   65,000
It was further assumed that the buildings which support the maintenance opera-
tions such as workshops, stores, offices, etc. would have an estimated value
of i Sd 510,000. Therefore, total estimated capital costs are:
Wateryards 200 x 26,000 --------------------------   i Sd 5,200,000
Supportive Buildings -----------------------------       Sd   510,000
Total -----------------------------------------   1 Sd 5,710,000
If a useful life of 30 1/ years is assumed, the annual depreciation would be
b Sd 190,000. Then total annual costs for wateryards would be:
Annual Depreciation ------------------------------        Sd   190,000
Operation and Maintenance 2/ ---------------------       Sd   864,600
Total Annual Costs ----------------------------       Sd 1,054,600
Total water charges if all annual costs are to be recovered without interest
would be E Sd 0.26/mr
1/   The major cost of a wateryard is for the borehole, which in this area
should last 30 years since it is not used during the entire year and
in any case is used only part of the day.
2/   See para 8.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
Housing
10.       It was assumed that housing would consist of Sudanese Government
standard houses. Staff earning from b Sd 3,000 per annum and above would
be provided with the standard Senior Grade House which has three bedrooms
and is designated as T-1. The T-2 or Middle Grade house has two bedrooms and
would be provided to staff whose salary ranged from L Sd 1,601 to L Sd 2,999.
Staff earning from L Sd 900 to E Sd 1,600 per year would be entitled to a
Junior Grade house of one bedroom and designated as T-3. Some ancilliary
staff earning less than that i Sd 900 would be entitled to a thatch house.
1/
II. Crop Production
Traditional Farms
11        It is estimated that at present an average farm family consists of
six persons (2.6 labor units) and cultivates 5.4 ha of crops with hand
tools. Two-thirds of the cropped area is sown with millet and one-third with
groundnuts. Sesame, sorghum and other minor crops are grown on only 3% of
the cropped area; they make a small contribution to crop production, and have
not been assessed separately in calculations of benefits.
Crop Yields
12.       There is great variations in crop yields from site to site and season
to season. The average yield of millet on traditional farms is estimated to be
400 kg grain per ha and the mean yield of groundnuts to be 900 kg unshelled.
Crop Production Without the Program
13.       Without the program, increasing population and a corresponding
increase in the cropped area will lead to reduction of the fallow period and
a decline in yields. Assuming that the present 6.25% per annum rate of popu-
lation growth continues, 2/ (3% natural increase and 3.25% due to immigration)
reserves of virgin land in the Baggara Land System will be exhausted in about
1985. Thereafter, there is likely to be movement of population out of the
area, but with a shorter fallow period, crop yields of the remaining farmers
will decline.
1/   The assumptions on crop production are based on data given in the prepara-
tion report and largely collected by Hunting Technical Services Limited
during Surveys of Eastern and Southern Districts of South Darfur Province
in 1974 and 1976. Data have been checked during appraisal and where found
necessary appropriate modifications have been made.
2/   HTS estimates.



ANNEX 5
Page 15
14.       Two alternative assumptions are made concerning crop yields after
year 10 of the program. Assumption I is that crop yields will decline at a rate
of 2.5% per annum and Assumption II is that they will decline at a rate of 5%
per annum. It is also assumed that annual subsistence production of 1,440 kg
of millet per family p.a. will be maintained as long as possible by increasing
the area sown to millet at the expense of the groundnuts area and that the
mean millet yield will fall to 240 kg grain per ha from the current estimated
level of 400 kg without the program at Year 30.
15.       It is assumed that in the Baggara Land System a family taps 600
hashab trees per annum and on the Qoz Land System 300 trees per annum, or a
total of 130 kg and 65 kg of gum arabic respectively (0.22 kg per tree)-see
Annex 6, para 12.
The Settlement Unit
16.       There would be eleven new settlement units, each based on a single
wateryard serving a cultivation unit of 500 families. A further 19 settlements
would be based on wateryards that have already been opened. Because unregula-
ted settlement has begun at opened wateryards, they would only be able to
accommodate 250 families each; no incremental production has been assumed for
the already settled families as their attitude toward the Project is as yet
untested.
17.       The settlement pattern will be as follows:
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4
New Settlement
New Farmers                  200           150         100            50
Total Farmers                200           350         450           500
Opened Settlement
New Farmers                  100            75          50            25
Total Farmers                100          175          225           250
The Settlement Farm
18.       An average family of six persons will be allocated 25 ha 1/ and,
using hand labor, will cultivate 6 ha each year. Cropping patterns for new
settlers will be as follows:
1/   But they will initially have full rights to only half this area.



ANNEX 5
Page 16
1/
Years
More than
1       2        3        4          4
Millet       ha    -       1.0       2.0     2.8        3.6
Groundnuts   ha    -       0.5       1.0     1.4        1.8
Gum Arabic   ha    -       --        --      0.3        0.6
Total               -      1.5       3.0     4.5        6.0
19.       The cropping period will be four years.  Each year 1.5 ha of new
land would be opened for cropping and after year 4 , 1.5 ha would be allowed
to revert to bush fallow dominated by gum arabic. No equipment would be
needed for land clearing. In certain instances a small amount of hand labor
would be needed which the settler and his family would be able to provide. No
cost has been calculated for this work.
20.       Gum arabic will be intersown between millet and groundnuts on third
year land to give 400 trees per ha. A total of 1,200 seedlings will occupy
20% of the area of crops in third and fourth year land. A family will be able
to maintain two livestock units on their fallow land and have the right to
maintain a further livestock unit on communal grazing land within the settle-
ment. It is assumed that families will continue to maintain the number
of livestock they held before settlement and be permitted to run livestock, in
excess of those permitted in the settlement area, with the nomadic herds. No
incremental income from livestock has been assumed at this stage.
Settlement Crop Production
21.       In calculating settlement crop production the following assump-
tions have been made:
Assumption 1: Using traditional farm methods a family will adopt
the cropping pattern described in paragraph 18 and obtain mean
yields of 400 kg millet per ha and 900 kg unshelled groundnuts
per ha. Tapping of mature gum arabic trees will commence five
years after sowing. The mean gum yield of a tree is estimated
to be 0.22 kg. per season and a family will be able to tap 2,000
trees (5 ha) per season yielding a total of 440 kg gum.
Assumption II: Improved varieties and information on better
farming methods will become available from the Crop Experimental
Unit at Ghazala Gawazat and from year 9 will result in the
following annual increases in crop yield:
1/   Year I being the year of settlement.



ANNEX 5
Page 17
Millet - 5% per annum until the mean yield is one ton per
ha, when the increment will drop to 2.5% per annum.
1/ Millet production will not exceed subsistence
requirements of 1,440 kg per family and the area
sown to millet will decline as yields increase.
The surplus area will be sown to cash crops and
forage legumes. 2/
Groundnuts - 2.5% per annum until the mean yield is 1.1 ton
unshelled nuts per ha, then drop to 2%.
Assumption III: There will be gradual adoption of ox-drawn imple-
ments. Commencing with 50 ox-farmers in year 6 the annual rate of
adoption of ox-drawn implements is expected to be:
Years
6 - 14   15 - 19   20 - 24    25 - 30
% of total farmers         1          2         2.5         3
22.       Using ox-drawn implements a family will cultivate 7.5 ha of crops.
The additional area cultivated being sown to groundnuts, intersown with Gum
Arabic. The cropping pattern of a farm using ox-drawn implements at tradi-
tional levels of production will be:
Ha
Millet             3.60
Groundnuts         3.15
Gum Arabic         0.75
Total           7.50
Each year one-quarter of the area (1.875 ha) will revert to bush fallow and a
similar area of bush fallow cleared for crops.
Crop Prices
23.       Economic farmgate prices have been calculated as follows:
1/   In practice the introduction of a new millet variety would probably
have an instant large effect on yields followed by a gradual increase.
5% is a mean assumption for calculation purposes.
2/   For calculations assumed to be groundnuts.



ANNEX 5
Page 18
i Sd per ton - 1976 farmgate economic constant prices
1977   78   79   80   81   82   83   84  85
Gum Arabic 1/           476    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   - (onwards)
Millet                    30    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -
Groundnuts in Shell      63    63  65   66   72   78   84   90  96    "
24.       Details of the calculations are given in Annexes 16, 18 and 20.  It is
estimated that 10% of current groundnut exports are marketed as confectionary
type, obtaining a 10% greater price than groundnuts for oil production, and
that the percent of confectionary exports will increase to a maximum of 20%
in ten years.
25.       In calculating farm budgets the following constant farmgate prices
(financial), have been used:
Millet                 LSd    35 per ton
Groundnuts in Shell   5Sd    35 per ton
Gum Arabic 1/          bSd   185 per ton
Calculation of Benefits
26.       In calculating benefits two production assumptions were made:
(a) that without the Program crop yields will decline by 2.5%
per annum after year 10; and
(b) that with the Program improved varieties and farming methods
would result in improvement of crop yields from year 9.
These are modest estimates of the benefits resulting from improved land
utilization and a strong adaptive research input and of the likely deteriora-
tion in production without the program. An estimate was made of the possible
effect of adoption of ox-drawn implements on crop production but is too
hypothetical to be used in the calculation of program benefits.
1/   Average Export (ISd/ton) (Source:  Bank of Sudan)       (Estimate)
Prices (fob)  1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976
153    202    214    218    886       608    455



ANNEX 5
Page 19
27.       In calculating the benefits the following assumptions were made
based on an estimated settler household budget (Annex 17).
Present     Production Without   Production With
Production        Program              Program
I,-______________- E Sd -----------------
Gross Production              160               120                  330
Cost of Production             28                19                   82
Household Consumption
Expenditures             125                95                  180
Household Cash Surplus          7                 6                   68
28.       It was assumed that no assistance would be needed for settlers to
build new houses on the settlements. In the program area, farmers are
building simple houses from local material and no special skill and/or
material which could not be found on the spot would be needed. Household
belongings of settlers would be transported free of charge to settlers under
the program from the old to new areas, and during the start-up period a small
amount of thatching straw would be provided if necessary.
29.       Long-term land use arrangements under the program would provide
adequate security for the settlers and a desirable element of flexibility in
land management. Such arrangements would build upon and fit into traditional
and local tenure systems and contribute to the achievement of development
objectives. This would also make it possible to leave open for a later stage
obligation for the settlers for cost recovery.
III. Livestock Parameters
30.       Based on the survey carried out by Huntings Technical Services
in Southern District (1974) and in the Eastern District Project Area (1975)
the basic assumptions regarding livestock parameters utilized in program
calculations are the following: Assumptions have only been made for
cattle for two reasons: (i) The program area population of sheep and goats,
in terms of livestock units, represents only 5% of the total livestock popula-
tion; and (ii) In a "Without Program" projection the numbers of sheep and
goats would increase and these would gradually replace the cattle population;
benefits would, however, be very nearly the same.



ANNEX 5
Page 20
A. With Program Assumptions
31.       The total number of cattle at the start of the Project is estimated
at 1.3 million. This figure was arrived at from the result of the 1975 survey
estimating the total cattle population at 1.9 million less 0.6 million cattle
found in but originating outside the program area (Annex 7, para 2). Proj-
ections assume that the age of first calving is four years, calving percentage
50% calf mortality 30%; adult mortality 10% and marketed offtake 5%.
32.       From Year 3 improvement of veterinary services would result in an
increase in the calving rate to 55%, a decrease in calf mortality to 25%,
and a decrease in adult mortality to 8%. Producers sales habits are expected
to remain unchanged.
33.       From Year 5  herd parameters would remain unchanged, but stockman
training, non-formal education and demand combined would bring about a 10%
points increase in the numbers of sales of 4-5 year old steers to 20% and a
12% points increase in the number of sales of 1-2 year old steers to 15%, and
a 2% point increase to 5% in the number of sales of other males.
34.       From Year 10 age at first calving would drop to 3 1/2 years,
the calving rate would increase by 5% points to 60%, calf mortality would drop
by 5% points to 20%, sales of 4-5 year old steers would increase further by
10% points to 30% and of 1-2 year old steer by 15% points and to 30% and by 5%
points for other age groups of males, and culling of cows would increase by 1%
point from 2% to 3%. These assumptions reflect a continuous improvement of
services, husbandry practices and nutrition originating from introduction of
range management and fodder crop cultivation practices as well as a steadily
increasing response of the livestock producers to education.
35.       From Year 19 culling of mature female stock would increase by a
further 3% points to 6% and herd growth at that time is expected to stabilize.
Stabilization of the herd model in year twenty has resulted from increasing
the sale of breeding age females (which is expected if grazing/ forage re-
sources are the limiting factor).
36.       The above assumptions are conservative since it is possible that
by year 20 forage production under flood cultivation or mechanization and the
availability of by-products, combined with selling of male animals (surplus to
breeding requirements) as yearlings would allow for a considerable increase in
total numbers and a higher proportion of female breeding stock.
B. Without Program Assumptions
37.       The initial situation would be identical to that outlined for the
"With Program" situation. From Year 5 due to increasing encroachment



ANNEX 5
Page 21
of cultivation and gradual deterioration of grazing, calving rates would drop
by 5% points to 45%, calf mortality would increase by 5% points to 35%.
Expected Trends Regarding the Pastoralist Populations in the Area.
38.       With the program the human population in the program Area engaged
in transhumant livestock production (150,000) is assumed to remain stable.
The natural increase in population is assumed to be absorbed by out migration
of young pastoralists to other sector of the economy; and an increase in the
sedentary population engaged in crop production due to more attractive
prospects.
39.       Without the program it is assumed that about 40 head of cattle
represents the lower limit of what is necessary to maintain an acceptable
pastoralist family way of life. Consequently, 15,000 more families would have
to out migrate or take up crop cultivation by project year 10, a further
18,000 by year 20, and a further 12,000 by year 25 in addition to the natural
population increase.
March 9, 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production, Settlement, Extension Services,
Crop Research
I. Crop Production
Environment
1.        Climate.  The climate of Eastern District is typical of the low
rainfall woodland savannas of Africa. Crops are rainfed and the amount and
distribution of rainfall are major factors affecting yield. The rainy season
begins in early June and extends 120-140 days with a slight peak in late
July/early August. The mean annual rainfall in the crop producing area for
1941-1970 was 550 mm, but with 20% probability of a rainfall less than 450
mm. Because of variation in the date of onset of the rains, the optimum crop
sowing period varies from year to year and place to place. In response,
farmers stagger their sowing dates.
2.        During the last ten years the mean rainfall of Eastern District has
been 20% below the average for 1941-1964, and has resulted both in reduced
crop yields and increased migration into the District from drier areas in the
North and Northwest.
3.        During the crop season the mean daily temperature is about 26 C,
with mean maxima of 30-35 C and mean minima of 19-22 C.  Evaporation rates
are high, 6-7 mm per day, and crop water stress occurs after quite short
periods of drought, due to high evaporation and low soil moisture holding
capacity.
4.        Soils.  There are four main soil types:  qoz, atmur, naga'a and
buta. 1/ In the Eastern District Project area cultivation is confined
to the aeolian qoz and atmur sands of the Qoz, Baggara and Basement Land
1/   Qoz    - Extensive and uniform sandy soils laid down during the late
Pleistocene.
Atmur - Sandy soils of ridges within Baggara Land System. They are
younger than the Qoz soils.
Naga'a - Non-cracking clays over which sheet wash occurs.
Buta   - Dark grey cracking clays found in depressions.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Systems (Map, IBRD 12474). These soils have low fertility and poor moisture
retention, but are favored by farmers because they are easily cultivated with
hand tools and are easily penetrated by crop roots in search of moisture in
deeper horizons. They cake badly and require repeated hoeing to prevent
run-off. When this is done water penetration is good.
5.        An important feature of the Baggara Land System is the Naga'a
alluvial non-cracking clays, which occur on gentle slopes, over which sheet
wash takes place, in association with stabilized sand soils (atmur) and with
cracking clays (buta). Naga'a soils are not cropped because of the difficulty
in cultivating them with hand implements. Severe sheet erosion and compaction
is caused by dry season grazing pressure, and the end result of overstocking
of naga'a soils is an almost treeless and grassless plain with a hard, smooth
surface.
6.        Buta cracking clays occur in small depressions within all the land
systems.  The depressions are flooded during the rains and, although they are
sown to crops in Southern District (ODM/Abu Dhabi Project Area) after the
receding flood, buta areas are not utilized in Eastern District.
Cropping Patterns
7.        About 300,000 ha of crops, all rainfed, are sown annually in the
Project area. About 135,000 ha are cultivated in the Baggara Land System
and a similar area in the Rizeiqat and Ma'aliya Qoz (Map 12474). The main
crops are bulrush millet and groundnuts. Minor crops include sesame, sor-
ghum, lubia (Lublab niger), roselle (Hibiscus sabderiffa), melon and various
vegetables.
8.        Millet.  About 70% of the cropped area is occupied by millet.
Millet is not exported but, as an insurance, farmers sow slightly larger areas
than are needed to provide their subsistence needs; millet grain is therefore
always available in the local markets. The straw is used for thatching and
fencing. Millet yields average only 0.4 ton grain per ha. Current varieties
are inefficient grain producers with a poor grain straw ratio, and yield 10-15
tons straw per hectare. Varieties take 140 days from sowing to maturity,
which is long for an average 120-140 days rainy season, and yields are seriously
reduced when the rainy season is shorter than usual. Other major factors
limiting millet yields are the prevalence of buda (Striga hermonthica), loss
of crop to birds, and damage by stem borer (Chilo zonellus) and American
bollworm (Heliothis armigera).
9.        Groundnuts.  The development of commercial groundnut production in
the area is associated with the construction of the railway to Nyala in 1960,
and groundnuts now occupy about one-third of the cropped area. Groundnuts
are well suited to the qoz sands. Germination and crop growth are usually
good and, apart from a little fungal leaf spot at the end of the season, the
crop is exceptionally pest and disease free. The current commercial variety,



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Barbeton, has a 90-100 days growing season. Yields average about 0.9 ton
unshelled nuts per hectare. The haulm is usually left in the field after
harvest and provides valuable animal feed.
10.       Sesame is grown as a minor cash crop, but local varieties are slow
maturing and large amounts of seed are lost by dehiscence of capsules during
harvesting and drying so that the average yield for the Project area is only
0.2 ton per hectare. Small plots around the homestead are sown with sorghum
and lubia. Local lubia is a vigorous grower and preliminary trials show that
it has potential as a fodder crop. These crops occupy about 3% of the total
crop area.
11.       Gum Arabic.  Gum arabic, derived from hashab (Acacia Senegal), is
the second most important cash crop in the development area. When prices are
high, production is supplemented by the inferior quality gum from talh (Acacia
Seyal). Rights to tap trees are allocated to individuals, and areas support-
ing hashab gardens cannot be cleared for cultivation by others. Plant com-
munities rich in hashab are found throughout the area and hashab occurs widely
in the Baggara and Basement Land Systems. Some cultivators sow hashab after
abandoning cultivated land but, more commonly, hashab communities result from
selective clearing of land (Annex 4).
12.       There are two tapping seasons.  Early tapping begins with the onset
of tree dormancy, usually after the end of the rains in October. Gum is
collected 3-6 weeks after tapping and then at 10-15 day intervals. Usually
four pickings are made. If late rains or a heavy crop of millet or groundnuts
does not leave time for early tapping of hashab before the beginning of cold
weather in December, it is postponed until the end of the cold spell in March.
The average yield of gum per tree is about 0.22 kilograms. A survey by
Hunting Technical Services in 1976 found the average amount of gum collected
by a family in the Baggara Land System to be 130 kg. The same survey found
that in the Baggara Land System a family taps 600 hashab trees per annum and
on the Qoz Land System 300 trees.
Farm Operations
13.       There are small areas on which land clearing by cutting and
burning is carried out one or two years before the first crops are sown.
No equipment is needed for this purpose. During the burning of brushwood,_
nitrogen and sulphur are lost to the crop-fallow system.
14.       Seedbeds are prepared by hand hoeing and crops sown on the flat.
The first sowing of millet usually takes place into dry soil; the remainder
of the crop is sown after the first reliable rains. Millet and sorghum are
usually sown by the end of June, groundnuts and sesame in July and August.
Poor early rains can lead to poor crop stands, or even crop failure, and
necessitate substantial resowing. Early sown millet is most vulnerable, and
the poor stands of this widely spaced crop (1 meter x 1.5 meters between
hills) often contrast with the excellent stand of the later and more closely
placed (40 centimeters x 40 centimeters) groundnuts crop.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
15.       Subsequent weeding and harvesting is carried out with hand labor.
Millet and sorghum heads are cut and thre hed with a flail and groundnuts
lifted, stacked to dry and the pods removed by hand. Cash crops are usually
bagged and sold within a few weeks of harvest. Millet and sorghum may be
stored in sacks in clay grain stores above ground or clay-lined pits.
Labor Organization
16.       Family labor provides the bulk, often the whole, of farm labor
needs and only limited use is made of hired labor. There is a heavy demand
for labor during sowing and weeding in the second half of June and the
second half of July; the periods vary from year to year and depend on rain-
fall. Similar labor peaks occur during harvesting in November. Farmers
traditionally hire migrant,Dinka laborers, but these are now in short supply
(following disputes between the Dinka and the Baggara) and their hire is
costly (Annex 4). Traditional work parties, providing their members with
work in exchange for food and drink may be organized, but the standard of
work performed by these groups is usually poor and work parties are rarely
available when most needed (Annex 4). As a result of shortage of labor early
in the crop season, and despite the long hours worked at this time of year,
farm operations cannot be completed at the best time or satisfactorily.
Priority given to preparing land for groundnuts and sowing the crop usually
results in a delay in weeding millet.
The Natural Fallow System
17.       When adequate land is available, it is cropped for 4-5 years and
then allowed to revert to natural fallow for as long as is possible (periods
vary from 4-15 years). Increasing incidence of weeds, particularly buda, is
a major factor deciding the length of cropping. On land where millet and
groundnuts are grown in alternate years the build-up of buda is slower and
the cropping period can be extended to about 8 years. Natural fallow provides
excellent control of weeds and buda and some recuperation of soil fertility.
However, the recuperative value of a long fallow on the sandy qoz soils,
which have low capacity to hold nutrients and are subject to heavy leaching,
is easily exaggerated. Increasing land pressure in the Baggara Land System
and northern qoz areas is leading to a situation where less than half the
area can be maintained in fallow; yields have already begun to decline in
many areas.
18.       Farmers are aware of the value of animal manure and often keep
cattle on their millet fields for a few days at the beginning of the season.
However, no fertilizer is used in the Project area, nor is there any con-
clusive experimental evidence on which to base fertilizer recommendations to
farmers. Experience elsewhere in the savanna zones of Africa suggests that
crop yield responses will be will be found to phosphate and sulphur, but
unless fertilizers are heavily subsidized their use is unlikely to appeal to
farmers at present crop prices.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
II. Settlement Program
19.       A settlement program would be initiated under the Project in order
to help relieve population pressure in already settled areas and to safeguard
the north-south migratory stock routes against encroaching cultivation. The
settlements would be organized around existing wateryards. 1/ Some of these
wateryards have been opened, and consequently people are already moving into
the surrounding area; the emphasis in these settlements would be on the
rationalization of land use, the restriction of unauthorized migration into
the area, and the introduction of improved farming methods. Other wateryards
would not be opened until the Land Management Division had prepared a plan
for the settlement process; the initial emphasis in these cases wouold be on
settler selection, design of the settlement area, etc.
20.       For historical reasons, the Rizeiqat and Ma'aliya peoples would be
most reluctant to settle alongside one another. Consequently, during the
Project period, 9 already opened wateryards in the Ma'aliya area would be
brought into the settlement program, as would 3 as yet unopened wateryards in
Rizeiqat territory. Tentative projections have also been made for the exten-
sion of the settlement program over a possible Phase II Project. Phasing of
the overall settlement program is given below. The timing of the program was
worked out in accordance with the need to establish an effective land manage-
ment unit in the district before settlement can proceed, and in light of the
fact that it was thought advisable to allow for a modest and well monitored
pace of development in the early years, so as to ensure the smooth implemen-
tation of the overall effect (Map IBRD 12473).
1/   Wateryards consist of a borehole, a diesel pumping unit and a 50 m
elevated water storage tank, fountain! and watering troughs in a
fenced area of about 3,000 to 4,000 m.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Number of Settlements Opened
Year
Sub-
1    2    3    4    5    total    6    7    8    Total
Phase I (Project)                 Phase II
Ma'aliya
Ma'aliya Qoz
Unopened               -    -    -    -        -       -    1    1       2
Opened            -    1    2    3    3        9       1    -    -      10
Rizeigat
Rizeigat Qoz
Unopened          -    -    1    1    1        3       2    2    2       9
Opened            -    -    -    -    -        -       3    4    2       9
Total           -    1    3    4    4       12       6    7    5      30
21.       In the implementation of the program, emphasis would be placed on
flexibility. The phasing described above is therefore intended as a guide to
development and a projection of its likely course on the basis of the best
estimate possible at the present time. It would be modified in the light
of experience and information supplied by the monitoring unit. The Project
would be reviewed at the end of Year 4; at this time decisions would be made
on whether to implement Phase II of the development program, on the rate of
implementation, and on what changes need to be made.
Land Allocation
22.       Demarcation.  Land settlement and development in Eastern District
would be the responsibility of the Land Management Unit stationed at Ghazala
Gawazat. An aerial survey of the development area would be made during the
first year of implementation and settlement locations marked on the photographs.
Field teams carrying out ground survey and allocation work would consist of
land allocation officers, survey assistants and laborers who would be needed
to cut traces. Their equipment would include survey instruments, tents,
tools, chainsaws and tractor trailers for moving materials. Field superivision
would be provided by Senior Land Allocation Officers who would also be respon-
sible for arranging logistic support. Trucks would be provided under the
Project for moving supplies and materials. The team would designate village
sites, cropping and grazing areas. A model tentative settlement plan is given



ANNEX 6
Page 7
in the attached Map (IBRD 12473). However, it should be emphasized that each
settlement would be specifically designed so as to accommodate the specific
requirements of the individual community concerned.
23.       Selection of Settlers.  As far as possible, settlements would be
linked with specific communities in the homeland areas; that is, a settlement
unit would be occupied by settlers from a single community. This would not
pose a problem for those already opened wateryards where in-migration is
already taking place, as the natural inclination of the new settlers has been
to settle alongside their former neighbors. The selection of settlers for
the as yet unopened wateryards would be the responsibility of the traditional
tribal authorities - in this case the Land/Village Sheikhs - and the local
councils. This selection process would encourage a genuine community spirit
and would minimize the possibility of disputes. Further uncontrolled (i.e.,
unsupervised) settlement in these areas would be strictly prohibited, and this
regulation would be enforced by the local Government authorities (Annex 4).
24.       The Settlement Unit.  Settlements in the Qoz land system would each
center around wateryards spaced at 15 km intervals; each would serve an area
within a radius of 7.5 km or a total area of 17,000 to 18,000 hectares. This
radius would provide a reasonable maximum limit for regular access to the
wateryards. Farmers would be grouped in five villages close to the wateryard.
Where farms are close to the villages, families would probably continue to
live in the villages during the crop season. Where farms are more than 3
kilometers from the villages it is likely that families would move to tem-
porary accommodations on their farms during the rains when surface water would
be available. In addition, to the cropping areas, each settlement unit would
contain 2,500 hectares of communal grazing.
25.       The hinterlands around the wateryards would be surveyed and divided
into farms averaging 25 ha. Provision would be made for households of
different sizes, and actual farm sizes would range between 20 and 30 ha. It
is assumed that an average family of 6 persons would cultivate 6 hectares,
although ox-drawn implements may be introduced in Phase II. A farmer who
has ox-drawn implements would be able to expand his cultivation area to
7.5 hectares.
26.       Farms would be too small for tractor equipment to be used, and it
is unlikely that an average family of 2.6 labor equivalents, with limited
opportunities for hiring labor, would be able to cultivate more than 7.5
hectares using ox-drawn equipment. However, a technical breakthrough could
result in a reduced fallow period and reduce the total land required by a
family by half. Therefore, a settler would initially be given full rights to
the use of only 12.5 hectares and the total land allotment per family reviewed
at the end of the Project.
27.       Assuming that 15% of land would be lost to access roads, dwellings
and uncultivable soils, each settlement would accommodate about 500 farm
families. It is assumed that it would be possible to accommodate only 250



ANNEX 6
Page 8
new settlers in settlements around the wateryards which have already been
opened. Under these assumptions, it is estimated that at the end of the
Project (year 5 to 6) 2,500 farmers would be settled, a total of 50,000 to
75,000 ha of land allocated, 1/ and 3,200 cropped. If a second phase should
follow, by year 11, about 10,000 farmers would be settled, a total of 250,000
ha of land allocated, and 50,000 ha cropped. At full development (year 15),
10,250 farmers would be settled, a total of about 250,000 - 300,000 ha, alloca-
ted and 62,000 ha cropped.
28.       Land Tenure.  The Land Management Unit located at Ghazala Gawazat
would have overall responsibility for the settlement program. The settlers
would receive long term land use rights containing covenants for a suitable
cropping system. Under the Unregistered Land Act of 1970, all land not
previously registered was designated Government property. With insignificant
exceptions, all land within the Project area falls into this category, and
legal facility therefore exists for providing land leaseholds backed by civil
law. Terms, conditions and duration of land use rights would require specifi-
cation during the early stages of the Project. 2/
29.       Land boundaries would need to be beaconed on the ground and re-
corded on maps and plans. A land registry would be established within the
provincial government at Nyala for this purpose. Boundaries of large units
(grazing areas and settlements) would be marked and filed on air photographs.
Boundaries of smaller areas would require detailed survey.
30.       Land vacated in the homeland area by departing settlers would also
be surveyed and, in association with local village committees, decisions
reached on its future. When necessary it would be incorporated into stock
routes in order to provide easier passage for nomadic herds, otherwise it
would be available to create larger and viable units for remaining settlers.
31.       The rate at which the above measures could be introduced would
depend on the extent to which local and traditional institutions could be
mobilized. Within the settlements, local councils and Land Sheikhs would be
expected to undertake allocation with guidance from Project staff. A Sudanese
sociologist, who is well informed about the local conditions and habits of
social groups to be involved in the settlement program would be employed
in the Land Management Unit. His task would be to discuss with prospective
settlers alternatives for settlement patterns and maintain permanent dialogue
between elders, the local authority, the Western Savannah Development Corporation
and the professional field teams implementing the settlement program. His
findings and recommendations would be of particular importance for the program's
1/   Settlers would initially have full rights to only half of the farming
area (i.e. around 30,000 ha).
2/   Payment for land use on a leasehold basis was considered to be premature
at this stage. This would, however, be explored in a possible Phase II
project (Annex 14).



ANNEX 6
Page 9
success and would be closely monitored and evaluated by the Land Management
Unit. Initial arbitration in the case of conflicting claims would be handled
by village councils but right of appeal to a higher authority would be
reserved. It is expected that the response of the prospective settlers to move
into the proposed areas will be favorable. However, Government realize that
the settlement process would have to be implemented voluntarily and that the
participants should have full power of free choice to participate or not.
Food for New Settlers
32.       Most families would not be able to grow crops during the season
they are moved, and crop production in the second year of settlement may be
insufficient to meet the family needs. Supplementary food rations would
therefore need to be provided for at least two years. The standard daily
requirement per person would consist of 500 grams of grain, 30 grams of
vegetable oil, 30 grams of dried skim milk and 20-30 grams of pulses. The
World Food Program (WFP) has indicated that it would look favorably upon a
request for assistance, and under a standard WFP agreement would supply food
free to the port of entry. The Government would pay 50% of the market cost of
transport and storage. It is likely that wheat would be imported, sold at
Port Sudan, and used to finance local purchase of millet. Government would
also be expected to provide a WFP Project Manager, Accountant,and Storekeeper.
Government would contact the WFP in order to finalize arrangements on food
assistance. Action should be coordinated with the ODM/Abu Dhabi project staff.
Crop Production
33.       Because of the lack of adequate data and the absence of research
findings, no package of new techniques would initially be introduced in the
settlement areas. Farmers would follow their traditional cropping pattern
of about two-third millet and one-third groundnuts. However, once the
results of the adaptive research program (paras 36-47) are available, and
the extension service is fully mobilized, it is expected that substantial
variations on these practices would be introduced.  One easily foreseeable
change would be the encouragement of farmers to plant hashab during the third
year of cultivation. These trees would require very little care and would
yield a substantial cash return to their owners. However, in the early years
the main emphasis of the program would be to arrest the decline in the environ-
ment in the homeland areas where population pressure is leading to rapid
depletion of the soils, and to stabilize crop production in the new settle-
ments under carefully supervised conditions.
34.       Projected crop production in the program area under both a "With
Program" and a "Without Program" situation has been estimated. In the "Without
Program" case, in estimating the production of the new settlers, it was
calculated that at the present population growth of 6.25% per annum (see Basic
Assumptions), reserves of virgin land in the Baggara Land System would be
exhausted by 1985. Therefore, farmers would have no alternative but to
progressively reduce the area of fallow. Pressure on land in the Northern Qoz
areas has already resulted in movement out of the area into open wateryards to
the South.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
35.       Ownership of Animals.  Farmers would be able to keep 3 animal units
(milk cows plus calves or their equivalent). 1/ It is envisaged that each
farm would support two animal units (two milk cows or oxen) on natural graz-
ing and crop residues and that a flock of 5 to 10 sheep and goats would be
kept on communal grazing within the settlement. The location of communal
grazing areas would be decided at the time units are demarcated and in
consultation with representatives of the incoming settlers. They may consist
of 5 areas, each of 500 hectares, or of smaller units, not less than 100
hectares each and shared by 20 or more families. Provision of small grazing
units would make it possible to differentiate between land more suited for
cultivation and land more suited for grazing and would make it easier for the
extension staff to supervise livestock. Furthermore, it is assumed that
families would continue to maintain the number of livestock they held before
settlement and be permitted to run livestock in excess of those permitted in
the settlement area, with the nomadic herds. No incremental income from
livestock has been assumed at this stage.
III. Adaptive Crop Research
36.       Very little crop research has been carried out in the Western
Savannas. The limited resources available for agricultural research have
been largely directed to areas and crops most likely to make a large and
rapid contribution to the country's economy. As a result, research efforts
have concentrated on the problems of irrigated production (mostly of cotton)
and of large-scale mechanized farming. Proposed development in South Darfur
gives a new urgency to the need for a supporting research program in these
dry savanna areas.
37.       A sound program of applied research is essential for the ultimate
success of the program. Perennial water supplies, virgin land, security of
land tenure and fair market prices should be adequate incentives to attract
settlers from the areas with depleted soils due to land pressure to the new
settlements and to secure the settlers' adherence to the conditions of their
rights of usufruct. Until such time as there are proven technical innovations
for the extension services to offer farmers, they will continue to grow their
own crop varieties and use customary cultivation practices.
38.       By itself, settlement will provide only a temporary solution to
the problems of South Darfur. It will reduce the pressure on land in the
Rizeiqat and Ma'aliya homelands and guarantee stable crop production in the
1/   No real problems are envisaged in obliging the settlers to limit the
number of their livestock; informal restrictions are already being
enforced in existing settlements without outside guidance or request.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
newly opened Qoz areas, but a long term solution will depend on the estab-
lishment of more productive farming systems of the qoz soils and extension of
cultivation into areas than cannot now be cultivated with hand implements.
Farming Problems
39.       The main agricultural problems are:
(1) Poor Millet Varieties. Local varieties are inefficient
grain producers and a high proportion of the products of
photosynthesis is used in the production of leaves and
stems. Varieties have too long a growing season which
make them very susceptible to reduction in the length of
the rainy season.
(2) Buda. The high proportion of land under millet leads
to a rapid build-up of buda in cultivated land and de-
creasing millet yields.
(3) Weeds. Effective weed control is rarely achieved be-
cause high seasonal crop labor requirements cannot be
met. Labor is required for weeding millet at the same
time it is required for establishing groundnuts, the
latter is given priority.
(4) Cultural Practices. All cultivations are carried out
with hand implements. This restricts cropping to the
sandy qoz soils and makes it difficult to achieve timely
weeding.
(5) The Natural Fallow System. The traditional cropping sys-
tem in which a few years under cultivation is followed by
a longer period of natural fallow is an inefficient use of
land and creates a heavy demand on labor for land clearing.
(6) Pests. Millet suffers considerable pest damage. Seed
is untreated and, because of loss of seedlings to insect
pests, a very high seed rate has to be used. Subsequent
loss of crop occurs to stem borers and birds.
The Research Program
40.       An adaptive research program would be initiated under the Project.
This program would concentrate on the solution of the immediate problems of
3mproving production and evolving more efficient farming systems. The main
lines of research would be:



ANNEX 6
Page 12
(1) The introduction, testing and screening of millet varieties.
Work has already begun on screening the major collection
of millet material held at Wad Medani.  For South Darfur,
emphasis should be put on identifying varieties with high
yield potential and a higher proportion of dry matter as
grain. Suitable varieties should have a shorter growing
period than those now grown and be insensitive to day
length. Selected varieties would be tested for local
acceptability before being bulked for distribution to
farmers. The present low yields make it highly probable
that substantially better varieties can be found among
introductions from other African countries and India where
millet breeding has been underway for a considerable time.
A breeding program would not be necessary in the early
stages of millet improvement, but improved material from
the screening program might later be used in breeding
work. Assistance in the millet improvement program would
be sought from the International Crop Research Institute
for the semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) on a consultancy basis.
(2) The evaluation and screening of other crop varieties,
including groundnuts, sesame, sorghum, pulses and forage
legume. Special emphasis would be put on forage legume
work and include testing of Dalichos, Lablab, Clitoria,
Stylosanthes, Phillipesara and Medicago spp.
(3) Work on control of buda and weeds with trials of low cost
pre and post emergence herbicides using simple applicators.
Chemical weed control in millet would relieve labor for
better hand weed control in groundnuts. During screening
of millet varieties, evidence of resistance to buda would
be sought.
(4) The introduction and testing of a range of ox-drawn imple-
ments from other parts of Africa. The use of ox-drawn
implements would reduce farm labor requirements and permit
larger areas of crops to be cultivated. Suitable imple-
ments have been developed elsewhere and the object of the
screening program would be to identify suitable equipment
that could be manufactured locally.
(5) The development and testing of improved farming systems
incorporating new crops and techniques. The objective
would be to reduce and possibly eliminate the present long
fallow period. The introduction of higher yielding crop
varieties would result in a smaller proportion of the
cropped area being sown annually to millet, with a result-
ing reduction in the buildup of buda, and permit an
extension of the cropping period. Research could lead to



ANNEX 6
Page 13
a short fallow, possibly replaced by forage legumes, and
with gum arabic trees restricted to farm boundaries and to
plantations on what initially would be communal grazing.
Because of the possibilities for intensifying production,
the final decision of total farm size for successive
groups of settlers should be deferred until the end of
the Project to give research the opportunity to provide
the answers (para 26).
(6) Work on the management of Naga'a soils, including methods
of mechanical land preparation (e.g., chisel and disc
plowing) needed to bring them into cultivation, suitable
crops and production practices and their potential for
development as additional grazing areas. The development
of suitable techniques would enable substantial areas of
these soils to be brought into cultivation to relieve land
pressure on the Baggara Land System in a possible Phase II
of the development program.
41.       Advice on pest and disease control would be provided by short-term
consultancies. Measures already practiced elsewhere would be suitable for
the control of the major pests, such as stem borer and American bollworm.
Staff                                                             1
42.       In order to carry out this research program, an Expermimental Sec-
tion would be established in the Crop Division at Ghazala Gawazat. Senior
research staff financed by the Project would consist of a Senior Agronomist,
in charge of the Experimental Section; a Senior Weed Specialist; and two
Agronomists responsible for crop introduction and Naga'a soils work. Their
duties and responsibilities would be as follows, and terms of reference
for the Senior Agronomist and the Senior Weed Control Specialist are found in
Annex 15, Appendix 2.
(a) The Senior Agronomist would be responsible for administra-
tion of the Crop Experimental Section at Ghazala Gawazat.
He would be in charge of all crop experimental work in
Eastern and Southern Districts and would agree to all
research programs before they are submitted to the Deputy
Director General of WSDC posted at Ghazala Gawazat for
approval. He would be personally responsible for the
development of more productive and viable farming systems.
(b) The Agronomist (Crop Introduction) would be responsible
for all screening of new varieties, comparison of promis-
ing new varieties with those presently grown and bulking
of seed of those chosen for introduction. Emphasis would
be placed on the identification of improved millet and
forage legume species.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
(c) The Senior Weed Control Specialist would be responsible
for developing improved and low cost methods of control-
ling crop weeds and buda (Striga hermonthica) suitable
for small scale farmers. He would examine the feasibility
of using pre and post emergent herbicides, applied with
simple applicators.
(d) The Agronomist (Naga'a soils) would be responsible for
developing methods for bringing the heavy non-cracking
Naga'a soils into productive use. He would study alter-
native cultivation methods, crops and cropping patterns
and the possibility for utilizing these soils for animal
production.
43.       An Agricultural Engineer financed by the ODM/Abu Dhabi project
would be attached to the Crop Experimental Unit and would be responsible for
the introduction and testing of ox-drawn implements and the choice of suit-
able equipment for local manufacture. He would cooperate with the Agronomist
(Naga'a soils) in trials on cultivation methods suitable for Naga'a soils.
Facilities
44.       Land would be made available for program research at Ghazala
Gawazat, which is sited on a cross section of the main soil types--qoz,
naga'a and buta. Equipment would be provided and funds would be made avail-
able under the Project for consultancy fees for visiting specialists, who may
be required to participate in specific projects such as millet improvement and
the development of improved farming systems. Provision would also be included
for the importation of seed and of ox-drawn equipment for testing. Provision
would be made for a laboratory unit with basic entomological, phytopathological
and soils equipment for the identification of pests and diseases and soil
moisture testing. The unit would have its own tractor and cultivation equip-
ment.
45.       Facilities would be provided for trials at the Nucleus Development
Centers, which are located at sites representative of the main environmental
conditions (para 48). A Technical Assistant, aided by a Research Assistant
would supervise field trials at each NDC in Eastern District. Demonstrations
for farmers and Unit Farms at the NDCs would be supervised by each Center's
Farm Manager. The NDC at Abu Matariq would be supplied with tractor equipment
for trials on Naga'a soils.
46.       Provision would be made for transport to research staff and for a
truck for moving materials and equipment. The ODM/Abu Dhabi estimates include
provision for housing, transport and a driver for the Agricultural Engineer.



ANNEX 6
Page 15
IV. Extension Services
47.       Extension advice would be disseminated to farmers through 3 Nucleus
Development Centers (NDC) to be established in the Project area. These
centers would be located at El Heid (to serve the Rizeiquat Qoz), Mazroub (to
serve the Ma'aliya Qoz), and Abu Matariq (to serve the Baggara Land System. 1/
Each NDC would cover some 60 ha and would provide extension services to
farmers within a radius of 40-50 km. They would also provide field trial
facilities for Ghazala Gawazat; this function would be particularly important
as the NDC's are expected to facilitate a two-way flow of information between
farmers and research workers.
48.       The NDC's would be under the direct control and supervision of
a Senior Agronomist (Extension) stationed at Ghazala Gawazat; the Senior
Agronomist would be assisted in these duties by an Agronomist (Extension).
(Both of these staff would be provided for under the ODM/Abu Dhabi Project).
Each NDC would be supervised by a Senior Extension Officer. As each NDC
would service 10 settlements, provision would be made for an Extension
Officer for every three new or rationalized settlements and for one Extension
Assistant per settlement. An additional 10 Extension Assistants would be
responsible for areas vacated by the new settlers.  By the end of the Project
period, the extension staff would therefore include 3 Senior Extension
Officers, 10 Extension Officers and 40 Extension Assistants; provision would
also be made for itinerant ox trainers from year 5. These extension staff
would be located in the Extension Section of the Crop Division at Ghazala
Gawazat.
49.       Before undertaking their respective assignments, the extension
staff would receive initial training at Ghazala Gawazat. On-the-job train-
ing would also be given at regular intervals, and at two week intervals
during the crop season.
50.       Work programs would be drawn up at the beginning of the season by
the Senior Agronomist (Extension) in consultation with the Senior Extension
Officers; the latter would in turn prepare detailed programs for their staff.
The work required of each extension worker would be clearly defined. Exten-
sion advice would be freely available to all, but emphasis would be put
on work with selected farmers who agree to try out recommendations and so
demonstrate their practicability and effectiveness. Only proven technology
would be disseminated to farmers.
1/   Three similar NDC's would be established in the Southern District to
serve the ODM/Abu Dhabi Project; these would be located at Dimsu (Qoz
soils), Jimerza (Alluvial soils), and Serragh (Basement soils).



ANNEX 6
Page 16
51.       A small training school for farmers with facilities for overnight
accommodation would be provided at each NDC. Training would be undertaken by
extension staff, who would also provide follow-up assistance and supervision
to farmers in the field.
52.       As far as possible, extension staff would be housed at the NDC's
but, in deciding the sites of houses, job needs would be taken into account.
Extension Assistants would live in ancillary housing in the settlements they
service. Provision has been made in the ODM/Abu Dhabi project proposed for
houses, transport, drivers and a typist for the Senior Agronomist (Extension)
and Agronomist (Extension). Vehicles would be provided to ensure adequate
mobility for extension staff and each NDC would be equipped with a lorry for
securing supplies and transporting farmers for training.
April 11, 1977



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ghazala Gawazat Center for
Investigation, Research and Extension
A. General Description
1.        Ghazala Gawazat research station, established in 1957, is situated
about 21 kilometers northwest of Ed Da'ein on the main road to Nyala and 20 km
from the Ed Da'einrailroad station. Average rainfall enjoyed by the station
in the 14 year period prior to 1970 was 474 millimeters. The altitude of the
station is about 485 meters above sea level. The station extends either side
of the Khartoum-Nyala railways, in the dar of the Rizeiqat, and covers an area
of 5,310 hectares. The area is divided into 20 paddocks, nominally square, of
256 hectares each and one triangular paddock of 190 hectares. Due to original
mapping errors few of the paddocks are square and they vary in size from 378
hectares (Paddock 1) to 182 hectares (Paddock 7) (Figure 1).
Center Facilities (Figure 2)
2.        The station now has 3 stores (buildings A, B and C) and 6 adminis-
trative office buildings (buildings D, E, F, G, H and I). Building A houses
three separate stores: 1 for petrol, 1 for diesel oil and lubricants; and a
third for spare parts. Building B is used for storing drugs and some veter-
inary and miscellaneous animal production laboratory equipment. Building C
is used for storing feeding stuffs and miscellaneous materials. In addition,
diesel oil is stored in a tank in the middle of the compound in a large
number of 40-gallon drums, and there is also a large stock of barbed wire.
Building D includes an Office for Range Management Technicians, together with
a large almost empty room and a small seed store; there are a number of steel
cabinets in the large room, in one of which the entire station library is
housed. Building E is the Office of the Range Management Officer. Building
F houses the Meterological Office; there is some equipment, including a radio
telephone that is not yet operational and office space for the technical
assistants. Building G is used by the clerical staff. Building H contains
the Office of the Officer in Charge. There is office space in this block for
three other officers. All administrative buildings are poorly maintained and
require urgent repairs, repainting and new fittings.
3.        There are 13 staff houses; one senior staff house, two of medium
size and 10 one-bedroom junior-type houses. All are good houses but they are



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
in urgent need of proper maintenance. There is a four-bedroom guest house,
also in need of maintenance, that includes two bathrooms, two lavatories, a
dining-sitting room and a kitchen. In the same building as the kitchen there
is a small medical clinic.
4.        Laborers are housed in a village than has not been well planned and
is not properly maintained, the total fund for maintenance and new huts being
approximately hSd 200 per annum. There are no proper toilet facilities. It
is a health hazard to both labor and the cattle and it is bound to increase
the incidence of tapeworms in human beings and "measles" in the cattle.
5.        Other facilities comprise:
-  An old horse stable that is not used at present, but is
being altered so that it can be used as a feedlot.
-  A small dairy complex where the standings were never completed.
At the back of the cow shed there are three rooms: one is
used as a milk reception room, in the second milk is hand-
filled into bottles, and cheese is made in the third during
the wet season when there is a surplus of milk.
-  Yards for milking cows and calves and a series of night
enclosures for bulls and older animals.
-  A yard with a spray race.
-  A small veterinary clinic.  There is no post mortem room.
-  An upright concrete silo; presently unused.
-  A pigeon loft.
-  A new poultry building with a capacity for 3,000-4,000
laying hens.
-  Approximately 1.3 ha of irrigated garden in which
fruit and vegetables are grown.
6.        The perimeter fence and the internal fences either side of the
railway are badly in need of repair almost throughout their total length.
These fences are five-wire with sahab (Anogeissus leiocarpus) or durote
(Terminalia laxiflora) posts. There are no cattle grids at the various
entrances. The area is divided into 2.6 square kilometers (one square
mile) blocks by fire lines.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 3
7.        Farm machinery available at the center includes:
- One Russian-built bulldozer.
- Two Russian-built "Supa" wheel tractors (neither are in
working order).
- One tractor- Massey-Ferguson "165".
- Assorted implements (two scraper blades, a seed drill, two
heavy-duty disc harrows, a ripper, a tyne harrow, a 3-disc
plough, a posthole digger, a sprayer and a buckrake),
almost all of which need repair.
8.        Services.  There is only one telephone; this is in the office of
the Officer in Charge and it is not working. There are two generators,
each rated at 22 KVA, but both inoperative. There are five boreholes; two
are in the south of the farm (in subdivisions 1 and 2 respectively), while
three are in subdivision 20. Undoubtedly, these five boreholes possess
sufficient total capacity for all the water requirements of the station; they
are, however, badly sited, two being at one end of the farm and three at the
other. There are also insufficient drinking places at the existing troughs.
One male nurse, who uses a small clinic attached to the kitchen of the guest
house, caters for the medical needs of everyone at the station. There is a
hospital in Ed Da'ein. There is an elementary school within the station
where children are taught until the sixth grade; the total number of students
is approximately 300 are there are six teachers. Additional permanent
classrooms are urgently required. Inadequate facilities undoubtedly explain
the dissatisfaction among staff and labor. The only recreation facilities
are a football pitch and an abandoned tennis court.
Staff
9.        Present staff stationed at the center include:
Officer in Charge                   1
Animal Health Officer               1
Animal Production Officer           I
Animal Breeder                      1 - Vacant
Dairy Unit and Poultry Officer    1
Range Management Officer            1
Technical Assistants                6 - 2 Animal Production,
4 Range Management
Administrative Assistants           4 - 1 Clerk, 2 Assistant Clerks
1 Storekeeper



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 4
In addition, there are seven technical assistants working in the meteorolog-
ical office, which is administratively separate but located on the station.
The present labor force numbers 164, with 122 working in animal production
and 42 in range management.
10.       The budget of the station is estimated at hSd 100,000 (US$250,000)
annually. In 1974/75, funds directly at the disposal of the Officer in Charge
apparently totalled LSd 11,400 (US$28,500). The total budget is insufficient
to maintain the station properly and finance a relevant investigational
program. There is no revolving fund into which revenue could be paid in
order to assist in the financing of the station, so that there is no direct
financial incentive for managerial improvement.
11.       Some useful records of animal performance have been accumulated,
but they have not yet been properly analyzed. There have also been some
useful range menagement investigations, including a burning trial and trials
on the establishment and propagation of Andropogon gayanua. Unfortunately,
these trials have not been related to subsequent animal production.
Soils and Vegetation
12.       Soils.  The northeastern and eastern sectors of the station lie
within the Qoz Land System, and the other sectors within the Baggara Land
System. The two land systems merge gradually through a transition zone.
The land systems of the station are represented as follows:
(a) The Qoz Land System occupies approximately 30 percent of
the Research Station. It consists of a gently undulating
aeolian sand sheet and dune complex, with a variable cover
of aeolian sand and alluvial deposits towards the lower
lying margins. The system is divided into two subsystems
on the basis of this variable cover: the sand sheet and
dune complex, and the Qoz Alluvial Transition Zone.
(b) The Qoz Alluvial Transition Zone occupies 12 percent of
the Research Station and occurs as a broad transition zone
between the sand sheet and dune complex and the Baggara
Land System. The subsystem is divided into five recurring
landform units, each with varying depths of aeolian deposits.
The landform units are the same as those recognized in the
Sandy Naga'a subsystems, but the proportion of each within
the subsystem varies.
(c) The Baggara Land System is the major land system in the
Research Station and occupies 70 percent of the total
area. The Land System consists of a level to very gently
undulating alluvial plain with a complex system of very



ANNEX 6
Appendix I
Page 5
shallow, meandering, connected and disconnected channels
separated by long rectilinear sheet wash slopes, gentle
depressions (buta) and aeolian sand deposits.
(d)  The Sheet Wash Plain is a level to very undulating old
alluvial plain (locally caleed Naga'a) with slopes rearely
exceeding two percent. A thin cover of aeolian sand up to
10 centimeters deep may occur where rain splash and sheet
erosion have not exposed the heavier textured alluvium
beneath.
(e)  Buta are gentle depressions that occur throughout the Qoz
Alluvial Transition Zone and the Baggara Land System. The
soils are recent, cracked alluvial clays or sandy clays
and are frequently underlain by some sandy micaceious
alluvium.
This wide representation of the program area land systems makes the Ghazala
Gawazat especially useful in that it allows the Project to carry out research
on crop production and range management and to establish a model settlement
unit on which to experiment with forage production and livestock production;
eventually this research would result in the development of a mixed farming
system for the settlement areas.
13.       Vegetation.  Much of the range vegetation on the station is over-
grazed and thus provides a research base for various types of range manage-
ment interventions.  Four classes of range conditions can be identified; the
determinants of condition and the areas in each class are shown below:
Condition     Percentage Pasture Cover       % Total Area
Good                       80                       1
Fair                  65 - 80                     41
Poor                  20 - 65                     28
Very Poor                  25                     30
B.  Project Investments
14.       Given its existing facilities and its excellent location, the
Ghazala Gawazat Research Station would provide an excellent base from which
program specific adaptive research, extension and training facilities could be
carried out. This central location would permit the integration of these
efforts, thus facilitating a constant exchange of information both between
Project staff and between the staff and the ultimate beneficiaries.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 6
15.       Under the Project, the entire operation of Ghazala Gawazat would
be put under the direction of the Western Savannah Development Corporation
(WSDC). The Deputy Director General of WSDC would be given specific respon-
sibility for the operation of the station; he would be located at Ghazala
Gawazat and would report directly to the Director General of WSDC. For
purposes of Project implementation, six administrative units or divisions
would be established at Ghazala Gawazat, the heads of which would report to
the Deputy Director General. These would include:
(a) The Administrative Unit
(b) The Range Division
(c) The Livestock Division
(d) The Training Center
(e) The Crop Division
(f) The Land Management Unit
Staff for these units would be provided under the proposed IDA Project.
16.       The Administrative Unit.  This unit would be responsible for:
(a) all financial matters for the station such as budgets,
accounts and disbursement of funds;
(b) spending procurement requests based on requisitions from
other units to the WSDC Headquarter at Nyala:
(c) supervision and maintenance of building and structures
and issuing of requests for maintenance and repair to the
Civil Works Division at Nyala;
(d) management of catering and food supply for the station,
the Training Center and guest house;
(e)  recruitment of lower level staff;
(f) organization of accommodation of all staff; and
(g) provision of personnel services.
17.       Range Division, Livestock Division and Training Center.  These are
described in Annex 7.
18.       Crop Division.  This division is described in Annex 6.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 7
19.       Farm Management Unit.  This unit would be responsible for the gen-
eral management of range, crops and livestock at the Ghazala Gawazat Research
Station itself. The unit would be headed by an internationally recruited
Farm Manager who would be provided under the ODM/Abu Dhabi Project.
20.       A Land Management Unit would also be stationed at Ghazala Gawazat,
although this unit would not report to the Deputy Director, but would be part
of the Land Management Division under the direct authority of the Director
General of the WSDC. This Division would be responsible for the opening of
new settlements and all aspects of land development in the program area. The
unit's work program and facilities are discussed in Annex 6. Provision has
been made in the estimates of the headquarter's unit costs for aerial surveys,
and a survey would be carried out of the whole of the settlement area in the
first year of the Project. Groundwork would be carried out by field teams,
each under a Land Allocation officer responsible for settlement and range
development. The unit would plan and supervise all aspects of land alloca-
tion and settlement and be responsible for the mapping of settlement units,
the registration of leases, and for the mapping and demarcation of range
areas. A surveyor, a cartographer and a draftsman would be provided for
the unit, which would have its own drawing office. Additional mapping and
designing facilities would be available at the headquarters unit at Nyala.
The unit would work closely with the Crop and Range Divisions and would
provide them with maps and with the required support in the field.
March 9, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Livestock Development Activities
General
1.        The organization of the pastoral community in the area represents
a successful adaptation to the environment. The security enjoyed by the
pastoralists is unparalleled among sedentary cultivators. Cattle represent a
store of wealth, and the single most attractive prospect for agricultural
investment, as land is not negotiable and knowledge for improving land pro-
ductivity is presently severely limited. However, because pasture is a com-
munal resource, an individual cannot alone strike a balane between pasture
resources and animal numbers, since to reduce his herd size carries no
guarantee that the slack created will not be taken up by others. Analysis of
herd performance has shown conclusively the superior performance of migratory
herds. However, the system is being increasingly threatened by expanding
cultivation and by range pressure, as well as by competition from sedentary
herds.
2.        The Southern and Eastern Districts of South Darfur have important
livestock resources. Stocking density varies with season, the highest con-
centrations occuring during the winter, at which time migratory herds are
grazing along Bahr el Arab. Recent aerial and ground surveys have indicated
the following (rounded) numbers:
Cattle         Sheep           Goats
('000)   %   ('000)    %    ('000)    %
Southern District /1
(ODM/Abu Dhabi Project Area)       600     4      100    1.0     100    1.0
Eastern District /2                 1,300   10      600    4.0      100    1.0
(Project Area)
SUB TOTAL                      1,900   14      700    5.0     200    2.0
Whole Country /3                   14,000  100  13,500  100.0  10,500  100.0
Source:
/1  S. Darfur Land Use Planning Survey (HTS 1974); from other evidence, these
figures appear to be a 30% under-estimate. The area will be resurveyed
in 1976 as part of the National Livestock Census.
/2   Aerial livestock census and ground survey, 1975.
/3   There are in addition, an estimated 35,000 camels, 40,000 donkeys and
8,000 horses.
Source: National Planning Commission - July 1975.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Present Situation
3.        The present situation concerning livestock production in the
Project Area is characterized by:
(i)  heavy pressure on the available grazing areas and the
absence of range management; 1/
(ii)  approximately three months of semi-starvation, especially
of cattle (late dry season) which coincides with the
calving period;
(iii)  a low offtake rate due to the influence of poor nutrition
and disease;
(iv)  an unstable equilibrium between transhumant and sedentary
livestock production and crop production which with the
increasing transformation of pastoralists into crop producers
and the resulting encroachment on grazing land might lead
to a breakdown of pastoral livestock production;
(v)  inadequate animal husbandry practices, especially in
the rearing of young stock, leading to stunted growth,
low fertility and lack of resistance to disease; and
(vi)  the fact that transhumant livestock production represents
an efficient utilization of the major resources of the area
and that the Baggara are already partly integrated into the
cash economy.
Preconditions for Livestock Development
4.        Numerous steps would have to be taken if sustained development of
the livestock industry in the Project area should occur. These are as follows:
(i)  broaden the knowledge about livestock movements in the
area and related constraints which are met by the pastoralists
and sedentary groups during the dry and rainy seasons;
(ii)  accelerate non-formal education and training of the decision
makers and the young stockmen in order to increase the aware-
ness of the problems facing the community as a whole and
to popularize the technology which is already available
and would improve the income and standard of living of
the pastoralists;
(iii)  provide better human health and veterinary services and stock
water supply, in order to gain the confidence and cooperation
of the livestock producers who would carry out the proposed
interventions;
1/   The Savannah Development Project - Phase II HTS Report estimates that on
the basis of herbivore biomass calculations that stock in excess of
carrying capacity by land system varies from 25-400%.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(iv) modernize livestock production in the area bringing about
gradually:
- polarization of livestock and crop production allowing
for uninhibited movement of migratory herds;
- introduction of forage production both as part of mixed
agricultural production farming systems in the agricultural
settlements and in the Bahr and Regeba land systems, in
order to alleviate the shortage of forage during the last
three months of the dry season;
- introduction of better range management in the area including
deferred and rotational grazing, provision of additional
stock water and pasture emprovement;
- better animal husbandry and calf rearing methods;
- more efficient veterinary services;
- improved livestock marketing which would increase the
producer's share in the consumer's price; and
- testing the possibilities for initiating the establishing
of a saving's scheme for pastoralists, which would
satisfy expectations for investing their cash surpluses
according to their needs and traditional customs.
The implementation of the proposed measures requires different services
coordinated within the framework of the Project's management and organization.
These services would be carried out by the Livestock Division which would be
located at Ghazala Gawazat and would include the following activities:
- gather data, and conduct non-formal education and planning;
- initiate the establishment of the Baggara Livestock
Development Committee;
- supervise veterinary services;
- establish two small breeding herds; and
- prepare for the Baggara Pilot Savings Scheme, and the
Baggara backgrounding and sales ranch for implementation
during a possible Second Phase Project of the Development
Program (Second Phase Project).
Data Gathering, Non-Formal Education and Planning in the Camps
5.        The Head of the Livestock Division would, together with the Heads
of the Range Division and Training Center and the District Veterinary Officer,



ANNEX 7
Page 4
prepare and carry out during the first two dry seasons (January-May) visits
to Baggara camps in the Bahr-El-Arab for the purpose of establishing a dialo-
gue with the pastoralists at the camp (farig) level, gathering detailed data
on movements and constraints and working out with the elders schedules for
the provision of veterinary services as well as individual projects related
to the provision of stock water in the context of organized grazing in
certain critical areas. It would be particularly important that the group
spend enough time in each camp to enable them to establish good relations,
explain fully the Project concept and to allay any apprehensions that solu-
tions would be imposed on the community. All information and data would be
recorded and in cooperation with the Land Management Unit put on maps to
serve as a base for developing a master plan for range management in the
Project Area.
The Formation of a Livestock Development Committee
6.        The key to the success of the Project is to gain the confidence
and cooperation of the pastoralists because on that hinges the eventual
acceptance and implementation of the innovations in grazing management which
will arise out of the data gathering. It is essential that at every step
of the Project the pastoralists get increasingly involved to the point of
feeling that it is their project and that the local authorities are closely
associated with all aspects of Project implementation.
7.        To achieve this a Livestock Development Committee would be formed
under the chairmanship of the Assistant Commissioner in Ed Da'ein comprising
two representatives from each morhal (stock route) elected by the pastoralists
using that morhal under the proviso that they be themselves transhumant
livestock owners. Additional members would be the Assistant Commissioner of
Abu Matariq, the Deputy Director General posted at Ghazala Gawazat and the
heads of the Livestock and Range Divisions and the Training Center. The
Committee would meet twice yearly at Ghazala Gawazat at the beginning and at
the end of the rainy season and once yearly in the Bahr El Arab. The pastora-
list members of the Committee would act as links to the camps which they
represented and would be the contacts for all Project staff during work in
their area. The meetings would discuss all related aspects of Project imple-
mentation and thus continue the dialogue established during the data gathering
visits to the camps. Dates and location of the annual vaccination campaign
would be agreed and proposals for special Project related development such as:
stock water, grazing management and forage production, would be studied.
Adaptive Livestock Research
8.        The Division would carry out the following adaptive research:
(i) monitoring of a number of transhumant (long-term and
short-term) and of sedentary herds in order to
establish vital statistics, husbandry practices and
nutrition parameters through periodic visits;



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(ii) monitoring a similar number of herds where owners
have agreed to the introduction of certain breeding,
calf-rearing and feeding innovations;
(iii) investigating the possibility of relieving the pressure
on the grazing areas by buying 14-16 month calves from
transhumant herds, backgrounding them for 12 months at
Ghazala Gawazat, sending them to feedlots in the eastern
provinces for finishing and sale, and comparing the
economics of this procedure with the present practice
of retaining bulls to the age of 5-6 years;
(iv) conducting at Ghazala Gawazat fattening on an experi-
mental scale of two age groups of bulls from sedentary
and transhumant herds, utilizing available industrial
by-products such as groundnut and sesame cake;
(v) investigating in cooperation with the Range Division
and the Crop Division, the possibilities of improving
existing smallholder sedentary cropping systems by inte-
gration of crop and livestock husbandry by:
(a)  establishing of permanent crop/fallow rotation to
better crop production and that of by-product
utilization for livestock feeding;
(b) introducing suitable grasses and legumes, which could be
grazed by livestock on the fallow area of the rotation;
(c) increasing the utilization of browse on the area of
range allocated to sedentary smallholders during the
dry season;
(d) introducing a deferred grazing system on the area of
range allocated to the sedentary smallholders;
(e) utilizing Acacia senegal or a suitable legume, browse
bush, and/or a small tree as live fencing to demarcate
fields. This would enable the smallholder to collect
a crop of gum arabic or add an additional supply of
browse for his livestock;
(f) testing the possibility of introducing some degree
of specialized milk production or the growing-out
of beef animals on the sedentary holdings and in the
settlements. Milk production could be encouraged also
by the use of improved Kenana bulls as sires, the use
of mineral supplements and by the feeding of legume
crop by-products such as groundnut haulm and cake
to the milking cows.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
A total of 11 man months of consultant services would be provided to allow
for the services of an internationally recognized livestock research scientist
to assist in planning and supervising the research and breeding program.
Veterinary Services
9.        The Project would provide the necessary investment and operating
costs for the veterinary services in the Project area to allow for their
expansion so that they may render a more efficient service to the livestock
owners. Six veterinary dispensaries and adequate housing for staff would
be constructed during the first two years of the Project and located according
to density of livestock population and migration patterns. The District
veterinary headquarters in Ed Da'ein would be expanded by a diagnostic unit
and staff housing. Vehicles would be provided for professional staff including
three trucks to be equipped as mobile units in order to enable a stepped up
program of field vaccinations. An initial stock of drenches and acaricides
and equipment for their dispensing would be provided for sale to the livestock
owners who would be instructed in their proper utilization and thus be able to
treat their own animals. In conjunction with the animal health program
extension work on Hides and Skin improvement would be strengthened by the
addition of field facilities and staff to train the livestock owners in
proper methods of flaying and drying. The day-to-day implementation of this
component would be the responsibility of the District Veterinary Services
Division of the Animal Resources Department in Khartoum through the Assistant
Commissioner for Animal Resources in Nyala. Supervision of activities would
be the responsibility of the Livestock Division of the Project which would
further assist in procurement through the Western Savannah Development Corpora-
tion (WSDC) and the coordination of field activities. The veterinary services
presently provided are much appreciated by the livestock owners and the
strengthening of these services in the Project area is therefore part of the
effort to gain the confidence and cooperation and to pave the way for range
management interventions and increased sale of surplus stock by limiting the
risks of heavy losses through outbreaks of disease.
Establishment of a Breeding Herd
10.       The Livestock Division would assume responsibility for the
existing herd of cattle at Ghazala Gawazat and would initially cull heavily
to relieve the present pressure on the grazing blocks. Two small herds of
Kenana and Butana cattle would be established to breed bull material for
sale to interested livestock producers in the area. Surplus female stock
would be disposed of through yearly sales in order to keep the herds to an
agreed limit. The present "nomadic cattle" herd would be culled except for
a selected group of breeding stock. As soon as range conditions on the
station would allow it a gradual addition of outstanding individuals would
be made by direct purchase from herds in the Project Area, out of the funds



ANNEX 7
Page 7
received from culling. Thus, towards the end of the Project two breeding
herds of about 100 cows each would be established from which in due course
good bull material would be sold to the producers.
B. The Range Division
11.       The Range Division would be located at Ghazala Gawazat with three
experimental range stations located at Nyamis, Abu Matariq and one in the
northern grazing area (North Darfur Province) yet to be sited.
The Range Division would carry out the following:
- participate in data gathering, non-formal education and
planning, and the establishment of the Livestock Develop-
ment Committee;
- implement range research at Ghazala Gawazat and range improve-
ment experiments at the three range stations;
- work out, on the basis of information gathered during dry
season meeting in the camps, a range management master plan
for the Project Area;
- participate in the training of the range school;
- assist the Crop Division in the establishment of grazing
areas in the settlements; and
- cooperate with the Crop Division in the introduction of
forage production on the Settlement Farm Unit.
The Division's role in the data gathering, non-formal education and planning
as well as in the Development Committee is described under the Livestock
Division (para 5).
12.       Range Research objectives would include:
(i)  observations in the field and at Ghazala Gawazat in order
to establish practical values for carrying capacities of
the various types of grazing areas;
(ii)  The conduct on Ghazala Gawazat and in the areas of the three
range stations of experiments with range management procedures
and forage production innovations with particular emphasis on
examining costs and feasibility of large scale application,
The experiments would include:



ANNEX 7
Page 8
- fire line establishment; grazing area demarcation; controlled
burning; breaking of naga soils and their possible seeding;
selective bush clearing; forage production under dry-land
flash flood and receding flood; cultivation with methods
which could be applied by the pastoralists; improvement of
range land by over-sowing; surface water retention partly
as a means of extending the forage growth period in the Bahr
and Regeba Land Systems and partly for erosion prevention
and vegetation improvement in the northern grazing areas.
Range Management Master Plan
13.       The Division would tabulate and map all information gathered during
the dry season meetings in the camps, and taking into consideration rainfall
and vegetation establish a master plan for range management in the various
land systems of the Project Area. Based on this master plan the Division
would work out a proposal for a simple practical first approach to range
management procedures with emphasis more on its acceptability to the pastora-
list and the ease of implementation than on professional completeness. The
acceptance of such interventions by the Livestock Development Committee would
not necessarily mean acceptance by all pastoralists and a continuous dialogue
and non-formal education would be needed to get implementation under way in
some areas.
Northern Grazing Areas
14.       A particular problem exists in the northern grazing areas where
the grazing of animals of pastoralists from the Project Area during wet
years is followed by grazing of several other pastoralist groups. A scheme
of deferred grazing in this area is particularly needed as this is the area
already showing signs of severe deterioration. Funds for aerial mapping
of this area are included under the Land Management Division of the WSDC.
This should be given highest priority and take place in Year One of Project
implementation. In view of the many pastoralist groups involved, negotiations
preceding the introduction of Range Management may require joint negotiations
between the authorities and the traditional leaders and quite possibly the
introduction and enforcement of provincial regulations.
Grazing Schemes and Stock Water Development
15.       Certain areas of the Southern Qoz and the Regeba Land Systems could
be grazed more intensively during the early part of the dry season provided
stock water points were available. This would delay the arrival of stock in
the Bahr El Arab area, thus alleviating the grazing pressure on that area.
Boreholes and some hafirs are already present in the area, but some are not
yet operational and some have fallen into disrepair. There is considerable
interest on the part of the pastoralists to expand the number of watering
points. It would be extremely important for the Project's relationships
with the pastoralists that action would be taken at an early stage to comply



ANNEX 7
Page 9
with this request. It would, however, be equally important that no stock
water point should be established except in the framework of a system of range
management agreed to by all involved in the area. Such schemes
offer a good opportunity of close cooperation between the Project staff and
the pastoralists and an equal opprtunity to introduce the principle of self-
help by having a reasonable part of development and maintenance cost paid
for by the pastoralists themselves.
The Settlement Areas
16.       The Range Division would be called upon to assist the Crop Division
in the laying out of grazing lands in the settlements, to assess the number
of stock they should carry and to devise grazing systems to be adopted, (Map,
IBRD 12473).
Forage Production
17.       It is of utmost importance to introduce at the earliest possible
forage crops in the production pattern which could be grown in rotation on
the settlement units and which are needed as a prerequisite for developing
mixed farming systems. Funds for adaptive research in this field have been
included under the Crop Division (Annex 6). The Division would render such
assistance as would be required during the field trial stage of this adaptive
research. Forage production trials would also be undertaken by the Mechan-
ized Farming Corporation at the Umm Agaga Farm and the Forage Production
Officer of the Division would be closely involved and provide such profes-
sional assistance as would be required.
The Training Center
18.       Based on the premise that the introduction of improved range manage-
ment would entirely depend on the acceptance of the proposed measures by
the pastoralists within the framework of their traditional social structure
a training component, aimed at motivating the pastoralists for these becomes
indispensable. The long term success of the Project hinges on the gradual
introduction of relevant range management systems, both for the start-up
period of research and experimentation, as well as for the initial imple-
mentation and further development and a considerable number of professional
and intermediate level range staff would be needed. There is at the moment
no training facility for such staff in the Sudan and the Project would,
therefore, need to train this staff itself. It would be essential that
all Project staff were familiar not only with the overall concept and ob-
jectives of the Project, but also with the social structure and value systems
of the people with whom they would come in contact during their work. There-
fore, organized staff training for all staff during the first year of the
Project and for new staff members thereafter would be a necessary aspect.
19.       During the Project's implementation the need will arise, from time
to time, to gather groups of cultivators or pastoralists at Ghazala Gawazat
to demonstrate various aspects of the work being carried out by the Project.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
Similarly, there would be a need to inform and train Government officials
working with or in relation to the Project. To meet these needs a Training
Center would be established at Ghazala Gawazat comprising of three classrooms,
a dormitory, kitchen, dining room, and offices for teachers and equipped with
student transport, a mobile unit for non-formal training in the field, and
facilities for the production of audio visual material, lecture notes and
simple pamphlets and photographs. A small reference library would also be
included. Instructors would come from Project staff, most of whom would be
field staff.
Non-Formal Education
20.       Non-formal education would aim at two categories of pastoralists:
the decision makers in the camp and young stockmen. Non-formal education
of elders would mostly be undertaken in connection with data gathering in
the camps during the dry season and would aim at explaining the Project
concept, the principles of range management, animal husbandry, animal health,
marketing of livestock and the advantage of cash saving against future losses
as opposed to the carrying of surplus stock. Slide shows and films preferably
from the Project Area would be used as training aids. Non-formal education of
young stockmen would be in the form of annual courses of 90 days duration
during the months of August, September and October at the Training Center.
The course would consist of classroom and outdoor training, with demonstra-
tions in grazing management, calf rearing, general husbandry and health,
livestock marketing and simple processing techniques for hides and skins and
milk as well as a thorough explanation of the Project objectives. The course
would cater for 60 young stockmen each year and their participation would be
solicited during visits to the camps. Each student would receive board and
lodging and be issued two sets of clothes.
The Range School
21.       This school would conduct 12 month courses for 15 agricultural
graduates (Shambat). The two best students of the first 5 courses would be
given fellowships to continue training overseas for a degree in Range Manage-
ment. The Range Division would take part in this training partly by officers
of the Division assisting in the planning of the curriculum and giving lectures
and demonstration and partly by arranging for student visits to various field
activities. The course would produce more staff than the Project itself would
need; but they would find ready employment with the Range Services of the
Department of Natural Resources. Courses for the range school and the non-
formal education would be conducted at Ghazala Gawazat in the same facilities.
22.       In order to continue investigation into the sociology of livestock
producers in the Project Area and especially to monitor their reaction to
the Project activities, funds have been included for 5 man/years of socio-
logical studies for a team of sociologists specializing in this field to



ANNEX 7
Page 11
live in the camps and with sedentary livestock owners. This study would be
carried out under the auspices of the Economic and Social Research Council
of the National Council for Research in Khartoum. A special feature of the
Training Center would be the employment of an Information and Publications
Officer whose main function would be to prepare broadcast and publication
material partly of a general information nature and partly about the Project
activities directed at the population in the Project Area and at the public in
general. As transistor radios are becoming more and more common in the camps
the activity would play a major role in gaining the cooperation of the population
which the Project aims to be of benefit to.
Preparation for Project Phase II Activities
23.       During the Project period the heads of the Livestock and Range
Divisions and their staff would prepare and discuss with the Livestock Develop-
ment Committee and individual pastoralists the possible establishment of the
Baggara Pilot Savings Scheme and a Baggara Backgrounding and Sales Ranch for
implementation during a Second Phase Project.
24.       The Baggara Pilot Savings Scheme.  During the data gathering visits
to the camps, the team would explore with the elders the feasibility of
establishing in the Dar area a savings scheme which initially would act as a
safe depository for surplus cash deposited as a safeguard against future
losses (paras. 4 and 20). It is anticipated that such a scheme would be
located in the Dar (homeland) area, and would carry out transactions at the
local markets during the rainy season, and in the Bahr El Arab area during the
dry season by means of a mobile unit. However, the actual operation of such a
scheme is not expected earlier than in a Second Phase Project. Before
the scheme could be established the principle would have to be endorsed by the
Livestock Development Committee; also, a supervisory committee would have to
be formed, and the possibilities of linking activities to the Agricultural
Develoment Bank or another established banking institution investigated. A
similar saving system among the rural population in Swaziland was successful
and might serve as a model.
25.       The Baggara Backgrounding and Sales Ranch.  It was felt that live-
stock producers at present receives less than their share of the consumer
price for livestock (Annex 16). The WSDC, by monitoring markets and proposing
relevant changes to local authorities could contribute to rectify this situa-
tion. The recent establishment of the Livestock and Meat Marketing Commission
will further aid in this direction. It would, however, seem that during a
possible Phase II project, there is a basis for the establishment of a back-
grounding and sales ranch (Ranch) which would be the collective property of
the Baggara and eventually develop into a cooperative. The Ranch would buy
livestock from the Project Area and sell to the East or for export, either
directly or after a period of backgrounding. Any profits realized after



ANNEX 7
Page 12
deduction of cost would be channeled to the producer.  The area which has
been identified by a previous Mission 1/ totals some 360 km (36,000 ha) and
is located on the south side of the railway line 60 kilometers east of Ed
Da'ein, 240 kilometers west of Nyala, and 3 kilometers west of Abu Gabra
railway station. The site is strategically located for the livestock markets
at Ed Da'ein, Gimelaya, Abu Gabra and Abu Matariq. Recorded data are not
available for each of these markets, but the total annual throughput is
estimated to be in the vicinity of 18,000 cattle and 40,000 sheep annually.
Most animals are purchased in the rainy season. The whole area is composed of
sand and sand dunes, and the rainfall averages 450 millimeters annually. The
site contains no cultivation or settlement and it is part of a vast range
extending to the North, South and East. Areas of cultivation surround most
settlements in the locality. Those closest to the proposed site are Abu Gabra
to the South, Dar est Salaam to the West, and Mical immediately to the North
of the railway line. From Dar es Salaam cultivation continues for several
kilometers to the West, but the other cultivated areas are merely surrounded
by rangeland similar to those of the site. To the West some land has been
demarcated by the Rural Development Department for ranching and water bore-
holes have been installed, but little other development has taken place to
date. The main migration routes of the Maaliya and Rizeiquat tribes pass to
the east of the area, following a line of Government wateryards, while some of
the Maaliya followed by Ha,ar. Barti and Koahla pass to the west through Taha.,
The Maaliya and Rizeiquat are mostly cattle owners but the other three groups
who enter the area considerably later are traditionally sheep and camel
herders. During the wet season, there is some surface water in the south of
the area but the absence of permanent water or Government wateryards results
in considerable underutilization of grasses which are then often burned.
Prospects for developing groundwater on the site are good.
26.       This component has been foreseen for a Second Phase Project because
considerable preparation would be needed in order to ensure the full partici-
pation of the Baggara themselves. The issues which must be addressed are:
ownership of the Ranch; organization and management; the degree of financial
participation of the Baggara in the running cost and working capital of
the farm; and credit arrangements, if any, in connection with the provision-
of working capital. The establishment of the Ranch would offer a viable
alternative to the present markets which are dominated entirely by the mer-
chants and their agents, thus forcing buyers to adopt more producer oriented
price policies and trade procedures. It would also offer an opportunity to
introduce purchasing on the basis of weight and a system of grades. It is
believed that the Ranch would gradually develop into a cooperative offering a
new possibility for local investment by the Baggara, and that it would offer
a model for similar ranches to be established in the Bahr El Arab area and
elsewhere in the country.
1/   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Livestock Project Preparation Mission,
June 1975).
April 11, 1977



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Facilities and Buildings
A. Background
Rural Water Supplies
1.        In the Savanna Belt, all settlements are located close to or
within easy reach of natural watering points or artificial water supplies.
Even the stock routes are carefully selected by nomadic pastoralists along
dependable water points, either natural or artificial. In the rural areas,
the perennial and seasonal streams and natural lakes and ponds supplemented
by shallow wells are the principal sources of water. The latter are usually
located in the dry beds of wadis. Since 1947, the Rural Water Corporation
(RWC) has constructed a network of boreholes reaching into the Nubian and
Umm Rwaba Sandstone acquifers under the sandy qoz areas. RWC also construct
hafirs 1/ which are artificially excavated and constructed reservoirs into
which surface run-off is diverted for storage. The hafirs are usually
found in the clay areas. As a result of this program, sedentary agricultural
activities have developed around these sources of water. The towns and
population and developed centers also have their own water supply in the
form of wateryards (as the boreholes fully developed to cater for
domestic and stock needs are called) or hafirs, depending on the geological
conditions of the locality.
2.        Shallow wells will continue to be important sources of water in
the basement complex, and especially in the alluvial sandy and loamy clay
regions. Shallow wells provide water for domestic and livestock use, and
in some cases support irrigated vegetable farms; the wells are usually 2 - 4 m
deep and have quadrangular timber-shored walls. Each farmer draws water by a
gourd on the end of a rope and distributes it to each plot through a network
of open earth ditches. During the wet season, the water table may rise to the
surface, and in drought years the wells sometimes have to be deepened.
3.        Wateryards, built around boreholes by the RWC, are common focal
settlement points in the qoz regions. Besides supplying vital water for do-
mestic and stock use, they are social centers where trading posts may develop.
A variety of pumps driven by diesel engines are used to raise the water from
1/   The plural of hafir is hafira, but in this report the English plural
form will be used.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
cased boreholes extending into the sandstone acquifer to an elevated tank,
usually of about 50,000 liters (11,000 Ig) capacity. The water is
then distributed to taps, from which people draw water at the official rate
of Sd. piaster 0.2 per 4 gallon tin (18 liter) or (ESd 0.11 or US$0.28 per
m ). A metal trough is used to water livestock, which are assessed per head
according to the local rate of consumption. The pumps and engines are of
various makes: British, German, Italian, Yugoslav and Egyptian. The most
predominant is the combination of the Lister Diesel 6 hp Engine and EDECO
reciprocating "donkey" pumps. Due to the various makes of engines and pumps
used, poor administration and lack of funds, maintenance and up-keep of the
wateryards is generally inadequate.
4.        Rural Councils are responsible for the maintenance of installa-
tions as well as for collection of water charge. There are some reports
of misappropriation of revenues as the water meters are often out of order
and are rarely repaired, so there is no means of cross-checking collections.
The mechanical installations need to be standardized and regular preventive
maintenance and servicing procedures should be set up to ensure the contin-
uous functioning of these vital facilities. The RWC is planning to estab-
lish maintenance units for every 40 wateryards. Spare parts are procured
for all water yards by RWC at the national level and distributed to the
various Rural Councils at cost. The Councils have presently no facili-
ties for the maintenance of the wateryards, although the breakdown of a
pump or engine can cause very serious hardships to the farmers in the
vicinity. Therefore, the maintenance of the wateryards is carried out
by RWC on a contract basis. In cases of shortage of water profiteers
cbarge as much as 6 piasters for an 18 1 tin of water (hSd 3.5 or US$8.40 per
m ) or 30 times as much as the official rate. Twinning 1/ of boreholes is
being considered as a solution in some critical locations, but in view of the
high cost this is not a viable substitute for a well-orgnized maintenance
organization. With the proliferation of boreholes the underground water
supply system is another area where careful monitoring and study is needed.
5.        The hafirs ire rectangular earth structures.  Their capacities range
from 3,000 - 85,000 m . Over 350 hafirs have been constructed since 1947 in
Northern and Southern Kordofan, and over 150 in Northern and Southern Darfur
Provinces. There are in addition 12 - 15 dams and weirs. The latter have
capacities of from 60,000 to over 1,500,000 m .  (Hillalya Dam in Northern
Darfur built in 1960). Hafirs accumulate surface run-off from the natural
catchment of the nearby hills which is diverted through strategically-located
ditches. Some hafirs are fed by artifically-prepared catchment basins. The
sediment is trapped in a stilling-bowl and the flow into the reservoir is con-
trolled by a reverse flow sluice valve. The outlet starts from a galvanized-
1/   Twinning means the availability of a stand-by fully equipped borehole.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
iron strainer then through a 4 in. asbestos/cement pipe to a masonry or
concrete-lined well from which water is pumped for distribution by means of
stand-pipes with funnels and/or to distribution troughs.
6.        The location of hafirs is limited to the clay formations.  The
bottom of the hafir is usually at least 1 m above the bed rock, and there is
a 2 m high embankment built from the excavation aro nd the reservoir. Some
hafirs are twinned, such as at Habila (2 x 40,000 m ) and El Fasher. This
is done to increase capacity when the thickness of the clay stratum limits
the depth of the hafir. In most cases, it is necessary to provide filtration
and treatment plants to render surface water fit for human and stock consump-
tion. Various methods are used for this purpose. These are again not prop-
erly serviced and maintained. In some cases, arrangements similar to those
described under water yards are used in conjunction with hafirs for distri-
bution purposes.
7.        Hafirs, being dependent on surface run-off, are liable to dry up
in drought years. They also suffer from evaporation losses as well as
seepage due to sub-surface intrusions of pervious formations. Silting is
also a problem, although in well laid out and designed hafirs most of the
silt is trapped in the collecting ditches and stilling bowls.
B. Proposals for Savannah Development Project
8.        The RWC has the capability and the technical expertise to drill
and equip new boreholes as well as to construct the ancillary works connected
with a water yard. However, it is not furnished sufficient funds from the
central budget and the Rural Councils to effectively maintain the ones it
has constructed. Furthermore, no maintenance work has recently been carried
out on hafirs. Therefore, Government has requested that, at least during the
Project investment period, the maintenance responsibility for wateryards be
assumed by the Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC).
9.        A well managed water organization should be self-supporting..
With maintenance and operation responsibilities resting with the Rural
Councils, who must rely on an underfunded RWC for maintenance capability, the
wateryard operation evidently does not break even and an adequate job of
maintenance is not provided. It would thus be necessary to establish within
the WSPA an organization capable of construction and maintenance of civil
works. This Civil Works Division would be provided with suitable plant and
resources. It would be responsible for hafir construction and maintenance
and, since a major component of the Project would be buildings, it would have
the capability of supervising and execution of building construction, if
necessary. The Civil Works Division would be headquartered in Nyala under
the WSDC.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
10.       Since the Project area is relatively remote it may be difficult
to attract qualified personnel for successful implementation. One of the
requisites for attracting personnel is adequate housing. It is proposed
to construct housing, workshops, offices, laboratories and other necessary
Project related buildings.
11.       A Wateryard Division would also be created in the WSDC.  This
Division would be responsible for the maintenance and operation of wateryards;
it would headquartered in Ed Da'ein, where the provincial wateryard mainten-
ance center is located.
The Civil Works Division
12.       A Civil Works Division would be created within the WSDC. It would be
headed by a Chief Engineer with sufficient staff to direct the operations of
the Construction and Maintenance Sections. (See Organization Chart of the
WSDC in Annex 15, Organization and Management). The Civil Works Division
would:
(a) contruct and rehabilitate hafirs in those areas in the
two districts where ground water in unavailable;
(b) contract with the RWC to open existing boreholes as
required for the resettlement of farmers;
(c) construct on force account to the approved designs
and standards of the Public Works Department, those
buildings for which local contractors are not prepared
to tender;
(d) provide engineering supervision for those buildings
constructed under contract.
Hafir Construction and Rehabilitation
13.       The Civil Works Division would have the responsiblity for the
construction and rehabilitation of hafirs in the Project area. It is
planned to construct about 20 new hafirs and rehabilitate about 20
existing hafirs. Hafirs would be constructed in those areas where ground-
water is not available and where soil conditions are favorable (i.e.,
where there are impervious soils).  They would most generally be located
near wadis, so that diversions could be made from the wadis into the
hafirs, or the flood water spilling over the wadi banks could be collected
and stored in the hafirs. The hafirs would be located by Civil Works
Division Engineers with the assistance of professionals from the Range
Division so that they would have the best locations from an engineering



ANNEX 8
Page 5
point of view and at the same time be located in accordance with good
range management practices. Hafirs should be located so that the most
water would be stored for the least excavation. For instance, topography
permitting, excavation should equal the dike embankment plus the embank-
ment shrinkage. However, most of the time topography would probably not
permit such an ideal solution, and in order to store the maximum amount
of water without excessive evaporation losses, the excavated section
would exceed the embankment quantity in the surrounding dikes. From a
range management viewpoint hafirs should be located so that over-grazing
would not occur around them; ideally the water in the hafir would be ex-
hausted at the same time as the range.
14.       Investment costs for the hafirs to be constructed under the Project
are based upon a 6.5 m depth, base dimensions of 40 m x 20 m, and top    3
dimensions of 91 m x 46 m. This depth would provide a capacity of 1500 m
with all the water stored in the excavated area and a minimum of loss due to
evaporation. The side slopes were assumed to be two horizontal to one vertical
and the slopes would be four horizontal to one vertical. The spoil would be
placed 10 m from the top of the excavation at the ends and 5 m at the sides.
15.       Hafirs would be constructed with inlet works in accordance with the
Sudan Government standards and practice. This normally consists of a canal
discharging into a stilling bowl which in turn is drained by an inlet well and
pipe with a sluice valve and an energy dissipator in the storage area.
16.       The hafir outlet works consist of a strainer in the storage area
on the end of a pipe leading to an outlet well structure. From the well
the water is pumped into pipes leading to drinking troughs. If the water is
to be for human consumption, a filter would be installed which would be
maintained by the Civil Works Division.
17.       A seven barbed wire fence with steel posts set in concrete would
be constructed around the hafir to keep animals from entering and to discour-
age trespassing by the people. A caretaker/guard would be necessary to oper-
ate the pump and protect the property from vandalism.
18.       As with new construction, hafirs would not be rehabilitated where
adequate ground water exists. However, in some areas old hafirs need new
inlet and outlet works and valves, and the fences need repair. Where these
are necessary to the Project, Civil Works Division crews would perform the
work necessary to place the hafirs back into operation. Rehabilitation does
not mean desiltation, because it would take as long as three years to dry up
a hafir to the point that it would be possible to remove any silt with machin-
ery, and in the meantime the facility would no doubt be needed to supply water
to the animals. Considering the time involved, it would be more advantageous
to construct a new hafir.
19.       Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia).  All hafirs in the Sudan provide a
home for the fresh water snails that host the parasites which cause this



ANNEX 8
Page 6
disease. Since there are a total of 500 hafirs in the province, the forty-one
in this Project would have no appreciable effect on the incidence of the
disease. Although fencing would be used to discourage people from entering
the hafir areas, it probably would not be 100% effective. Accordingly, an
annual cost for the purchase and application of molluscicides has been in-
cluded in the tentative cost estimate for a possible Second Phase Project of
the Development Program (Second Phase Project) after the Project hafirs
are placed in service. If the application of the molluscicides proves to be
successful, Government, hopefully, would follow suit for the hafirs and
natural ponds.
20.       Hafir Construction Schedule.  It is expected that the first year
of the Project would be spent in procurement of vehicles and equipment as
well as in the recruitment of personnel. Actual construction and rehabilitation
of hafirs would not begin until year four, and with the exception of the rainy
season, would continue for the next three years; at that time twenty new
hafirs would have been completed and twenty-one old ones rehabilitated.
Building Construction
21.       During the first four years of the Project, it would be necessary to
construct a total of 295 buildings at an estimated cost of hS 2,010,000
(US$5,025,000). Of these, 170 would be houses for the Project staff. The
rest of the buildings would consist of offices, workshops stores, and specialty
buildings.
22.       Since Nyala would be the WSDC headquarters, it would be necessary to
provide twenty-six residences for staff along with offices, stores and other
support buildings, bringing the total number of buildings to be constructed to
fifty three. At Ed-Da"ein (the Veterinary Services headquarters and the Water
Yard Maintenance Center) eighteen houses along with stores and other ancillary
buildings would be constructed. The greatest number of buildings, 112, would
be constructed at Ghazala Gawazat; fifty-one of these would be residences and
the rest offices, stores, a training center and other supporting buildings.
The remaining buildings would be constructed at the three nucleus development
centers at Ed Da'ein, Dimsu, and Abu Gabra.
23.       Construction Materials.  Presently with only a small amount of
construction underway in the area, construction materials are sometimes
difficult to get. There are now two cement factories in the Sudan, and a
third factory is under construction; however, if their output is not suf-
ficient, there is a possibility that an undetermined amount of cement may have
to be imported. Unless cement is reserved from the local production, much of
the work would have to use imported cement. Bricks are locally manufactured
in the Project Area but production would have to be accelerated in order to



ANNEX 8
Page 7
produce enough for the buildings contemplated. Some of the buildings would
probably have to be constructed with locally made concrete or sand blocks.
Concrete sand would be found at or near building sites, but the coarse
aggregates would have to be hauled by truck or shipped by rail from the
basement complex area. Coarse aggregates for concrete or block work at Ed
Da'ein and Ghazala Gawazat would go by rail from Nyala to Ed Da'ein. All
other building materials would have to be imported and shipped from Port
Sudan. Prefabricated buildings were considered, but finally judged to be
too costly.
24.       Although some building materials are transported by truck from
Khartoum, most of them should come by rail, which would involve a minimum
of trucking since the major building sites are in the vicinity of rail points.
In fact, if a siting were available, materials could be unloaded from the
railroad at a point some fifteen kilometers from Ghazala Gawazat, the largest
of the building sites. Other sites on the railroad are Nyala and Ed Da'ein.
Seventy per cent of the buildings would be located at these three towns.
Materials would have to be trucked to the other locations from the closest
rail point.
25.       Building Designs and Standards.  The buildings for the most part
would be constructed to standards and designs in common use by all the agen-
cies of the Sudanese Government. The residences would be the regular houses
furnished to Senior Grade, Middle Grade and Junior Grade Civil Servants. The
ancillary houses would be of thatch, commonly used by the people of the area.
Other designs for workshops, stores and the like would be in accordance with
Government standards. If standards for some would not be available, engineers
of the Civil Works Division would produce them.
26.       Construction Method.  The building construction should be performed
by building contractors or the Corporation for Public Buildings and Works.
In any event, the work should be put out for local tender and awarded to the
lowest competent bidder. There are several private contractors in the Sudan,
both local and foreign, who would be interested in bidding for the contract,
and the value of the work is such that it should attract capable building
concerns. Building construction should be scheduled so that completion of the
houses is the first priority. Construction of the other buildings could
proceed at the same time as that of the houses, but it should not interfere
with the timely completion of the residences, since they are the key to
obtaining competent professional personnel on a timely basis. Building
construction contracts should stipulate that the houses have first priority.
Chart number 16942 shows the relation between the staff house construction
and the presence of profession personnel in post.   However, due to the tight
schedule and the remoteness of some of the buildings, it may be necessary for
the Civil Works Division to perform some of the work by its own forces. The
practice of building by force account should be used as a last resort,
however, and should not become a regular activity of this organization.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
Contruction Plant and Equipment
27.       The Project.  Equipment required for this phase would be
used primarily for hafir construction. The production unit of equipment is
presently a carry-all scraper pulled by a track type tractor. This type unit
would be used for the hafir construction envisaged in the Project along with
adequate support equipment. Compaction equipment would not be needed since the
water level in most of the hafirs would not be above the excavated area.  If
this would not be the case, compaction of the embankment section could be
achieved by the earth moving equipment itself moving over the fill after
spreading in layers not exceeding twenty centimeters.  Towed scrapers are the
best for this type earthwork because the haul distances are short, and as the
hafir is deepened the ascending grade coming out of the excavated area is very
steep. This condition would make it difficult to use self-propelled earth
movers.
28.       For the purpose of this type construction the basic equipment group
needed would consist of:
(a) Two medium track type tractors with angle dozer (140 hp).
Operations: pulling scrapers and dozing as needed.
(b) One track type tractor with angle dozer (105 hp).
Operations: cleaning and grubbing, dozing, and ripping.
(c)  Two towed scrapers (9.2 m ).  Operations:  Loading, trans-
portation, spreading, rough grading and compaction of
excavated material.
(d) One ripper to be pulled by the 105 hp tractor to loosen
compacted earth so the scrapers can easily be loaded.
(e) One fuel trailer.
(f) One grease truck for lubrication and servicing of other
equipment.
(g) One water tanker and pump to haul water for the camp,
equipment and compaction, if necessary.
(h) One utility truck for routine hauling of supplies and
materials.
(i) One 4-wheel drive pick-up to transport supervisory
personnel.
29.       A first class workshop would be constructed at Nyala, to service
all Project equipment and vehicles. A mobile workshop, transport truck and
a fuel tanker would be made available to the Construction Section by the
Administration Section to perform repairs in the field and transport equip-
ment and supplies. These units would not be permanently located in the



ANNEX 8
Page 9
Construction Section, as they should be available to service all com-
ponents of the Project.
30.       Second Phase Project.  Since operations of the Civil Works Division
during a Second Phase Project would mainly consist of maintenance of hafirs
and buildings, its equipment needs would be minimal and consist of the following:
(a) One wheel loader (125 hp) to load maintenance materials
when repairs to embankments and piping would be required.
(b) One dozer (105 hp) to keep embankments maintained and re-
pair dikes and diversion canals.
(c) One ripper to loosen compacted earth so it could be
excavated and loaded by the wheel loader and dozer.
(d) Two dump trucks to haul excavated and other materials
for maintenance purposes.
(e) One grease truck to furnish lubricants and service
equipment.
(f) Six utility trucks to haul maintenance materials,
supplies and personnel to the hafir and building
maintenance sites.
(g) Five - Four WD pick-ups to transport supervisory per-
sonnel to the varius maintenance jobs.
As in the first phase, a mobile workshop, transport truck and fuel tanker
would be available for the use of the maintenance section as well as other
components of the Project.
31.       Wateryard Opening.  The Civil Works Division would be responsible
for the opening of wateryards as needed for the resettlement of farmers during
the program. Since there would only be three wateryards opened during the
Project and eight during a Second Phase Project, the work would probably be
contracted by the RWC and supervised by the Civil Works Division. Wateryard
opening consists of the following:
(a) Installation of a pump and engine or two pumps and two
engines if there are two boreholes. 1/
(b) Erection of an elevated water reservoir.
(c) Installation of piping and valves from the pump(s)
to the reservoir and from the reservoir to the
fountains and stock water troughs.
1/   Some wateryards have standby pumps, engines and boreholes.



ANNEX 8
Page 10
(d) Building a pump house.
(e) Erection of a fence around the water yard.
(f) Installation of a watermeter housed in a steel box
which could be locked or situated in a concrete
meter box with lockable trap-door.
(g) Disinfection of the well and piping. Since the wells
are so constructed that surface water can not contam-
inate the underground water, chlorinators should not
be required.
The Wateryard Division
32.       Since the Rural Councils do not have the facilities and as the
Rural Water Corporation neither has the budget nor is paid enough to maintain
the wateryards, a Wateryard Division would be set up under the WSDC with
responsibility for the maintenance of Project wateryards. The Division would
also be responsible for the operation of other wateryards in the Province.
Current maintenance of wateryards is inadequate and it would be necessary in
the start-up period to assist this operation financially until it would become
self supporting. Once the Wateryard Division becomes a viable and efficient
organization it would be transferred with its plant, equipment, vehicles and
staff back to Government. The RWC at its headquarters in Nyala would remain
responsible for those facilities located in the area west of Nyala and which
service only a fraction of the people and animals in the Province as a whole.
33.       It is planned to utilize the existing provincial maintenance center
at Ed Da'ein and four subsidiary wateryard maintenance centers at El Laiet,
Abu Gabra, Buram and Dimsu. The existing plant at Ed Da'ein would be utilized
with the addition of a meter shop specializing in the repair of water meters. 1!
A new warehouse is under construction at Ed Da'ein which will store a major
reserve of spare parts and mobile workshops and service trucks working
from the four wateryard maintenance centers; a systemized method of preventive
maintenance should be achieved. Besides serving as a spare parts depot
for the province, the maintenance center at Ed Da'ein would provide machine
tools and better work shop facilities for the four subsidiary wateryard
maintenance centers.
34.       The Project would include supplemental facilities, vehicles, and
spare parts for the five maintenance centers (para 35). The staffing also is
1/   The establishment of the motor meter repair shop would depend upon the
availability of other meter repair facilities in the country and their
ability to service this area for a reasonable price.



ANNEX 8
Page 11
based on the supplemental needs to those already deployed in the region at
existing establishments. The facilities at Ed Da'ein would accommodate the
supplemental equipment, vehicles and installations with improved effectiveness
and efficiency. The wateryard maintenance centers at the four sites would be
fenced, and basic offices and stores/depots would be provided. Government has
begun this construction and the Project provides for its completion.
35.       The Workshop at Ed Da'ein would be equipped with basic machine
tools and equipment including stand-by generators. This would also serve
as the main depot for spare parts for the region. Adequate spare parts
with compatible tools would be kept at the four satellite water yard main-
tenance centers. Major reconditioning and rehabilitation of the boreholes
and related installations would be carried out in the initial year, so
that routine maintenance and servicing only would be required thereafter.
This would be carried out in accordance with a carefully scheduled and
arranged scheme for preventive maintenance to be established.
36.       Wateryard Operation.  The Project proposes that the operation of
wateryards would be the responsibility of the Division within the organiza-
tion of the WSDC. With the strengthening of maintenance, which would make the
wateryard operation more efficient, it is expected that the water charges
would be enough to sustain the enterprise without outside financial assistance.
Funds collected from the sale of water would support the wateryards in the
Province with exception of the depreciation on basic plant such as boreholes,
reservoirs and buildings. There would be sufficient income over and above
regular operation and maintenance expenses to establish a reserve for the
systematic replacement of vehicles, office equipment, shop equipment, pump,
engines and water meters as well as adequate spare parts.
37.       In order to adequately maintain and operate all wateryards in
the Province (including some 30 in the Project area) it would be necessary
to have an annual budget of fSd 864,000 (US$2,160,000). This breaks down as
follows:
(i)  Administration -  ESd 16,000           (US$40,000)
(ii)  Maintenance -    ESd 330,000          (US$825,000)
(iii)  Operation -       ESd 518,000       (US$1,295,000)
ESd 864,000       (US$2,160,000)
The details of the annual budget are shown in Annex 5, Basic Assumptions.
38.  3    Presently the RWC is charging 11 Sudanese Piasters (US$0.28)
per m  or 0.2 Sudanese p asters (US$0.005) per 18 1 tin.  A water charge of
ESd 0.26 (US$0.65) per m or 0.5 Sudanese Piasters (US$0.0125) per 18 1 tin
would be required to cover depreciation, operation and maintenance. This



ANNEX 8
Page 12
would represent an increase of LSd 0.15 (US$0.38) per m  or 136%, which was
felt to be beyond the means of the people to pay. Furthermore, it
was felt that such an increase would cause the people to consume polluted
surface water on an increasing scale. Accordingly, only operating and main-
tenance cost was considered re 5overable initially, which would amount to
about iJSd 0.21 (US$0.53) per m or about 0.4 Sudanese Piasters (US$0.01) per
18 1 tin; this amount was used in calculating revenues from wateryards.
Maintenance and operating costs however, include replacement of vehicles,
office equipment, spare parts, tools, well pumps, and engines and water
meters. However, total costs of the wateryards would be recovered to the
maximum extent possible by establishing an appropriate level for water charges
which would be reviewed from time to time with Government during Project
supervision and adjusted as necessary.
39.       If there are 1,900,000 cattle and 909,000 sheep and goats in the
Province, they will consume about 20 million m  of water per year at 25 and
liters per day respectively. The 350,000 people would consume 2.2 million m
annually at 17 liters per capita per day. From the above, it is evident
that even though the people would consume o ly about 50% of the estimated
production of the wateryards (4.1 million m , Annex 5), all water produced
would be sold, since animals would drink from the wateryards only when other
sources were not available; the quantity available from wateryards for live-
stock3would only cover about 10% of their yearly requirements. At LSd 0.21
per m each family of six would spend 17 x 6 x 0.21 or TSd 0.02 (US$0.05) per
1000
day or InSd 7.30 (US$18) per year for water for the use of the family and ISd
6.50 (US$16) per year for water for livestock, or a total of bSd 13.80 (US$34).
April 11, 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
1.        Under the Project, a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be estab-
lished in the Ministry of Agriculture. This Unit would undertake to provide
a continuous flow of information to the Ministry and to the provincial author-
ities with regard to the progress achieved under the proposed Savannah Develop-
ment Project. The Unit would also monitor the progress of the ODM/Abu Dhabi
Project to be implemented in the Southern District of South Darfur Province.
2.        Permanent staff provided for under the Project would include an
experienced Senior Agricultural Economist and a Senior Sociologist. These
staff would be stationed in the Ministry of Agriculture in Khartoum, but
would be expected to spend at least three-quarters of their time in the
Project area. Funds would be included for travel allowances, vehicles and
operating expenditures. Other permanent staff would include enumerators, who
would be responsible for recording of data and for field interviews, as well
as clerks, drivers, etc. Provision would be made for the hire of aircraft
for aerial survey work.
3.        Provision would also be included under the Project for the hiring
of two internationally recruited consultants who would assist the local
staff in setting up the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. These staff - an
Agricultural Economist and a Sociologist - would each be recruited for a
five-year period; terms of reference for these staff are found in Annex 15,
Appendix 2. It is also evident that much of the monitoring to be under-
taken by the unit would require special skills, and consequently these tasks
would be carried out on contract by internationally recruited consultants,
as would other specific short term investigations, if needed.
4.        The major reponsibilities of the Unit would be to:
(a) Assess changes in the environment as a result of changing
human and livestock numbers and their distribution.
(b) Evaluate the effects of economic, social and technical
constraints on livestock and agricultural programs in-
corporated into the development plans and to assess
and analyze the response of the nomads to the programs.
(c) Test the acceptability of new ideas and techniques for
improving traditional agricultural and livestock systems
and informations received from the WSDC.
(d) Assess the effectiveness of management and the introduc-
tion of new technology.
(e) Measure the progress of construction works.
(f) Train local staff.
(g) Organize special surveys on sample basis.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
5.        Environmental Changes.  The Project would monitor the effect
of changing livestock and human numbers and their redistribution within
the Southern and Eastern Districts of South Darfur. The parameters for
monitoring would be climate, vegetation and the growth in numbers and
distribution of people and livestock. Climatic records are available from
the regional network of the national meteorological service. Vegetation
monitoring would be carried out by an evaluation of aerial photographs and
ground surveys. Livestock numbers and human population would be monitored by
an aerial survey carried out 2 times a year.  Surveys carried out at the
extremes of the seasonal nomadic movements - at the height of the wet season
(August-September) and the height of the dry season (April) - would enable
estimates to be made of non-migratory livestock.
6.        Progress under the IDA and ODM/Abu Dhabi Projects.  The monitoring
process would be initiated at the start of the IDA Project in order to pro-
vide an assessment of the present situation as a benchmark from which to
measure change. Settled farmers and livestock owners would be sampled and
standard interview systems used to provide data on cropping patterns, owner-
ship of livestock, crop and animal production, expenditure and incomes from
farms and other activities, as well as information on aspirations, needs
and response of farmers to the projects. To assess change, sampling would
be carried out at intervals. Data on changes in the cropped area would be
obtained from aerial photographs.
7.        Pilot Schemes.  The response of farmers to new ideas and tech-
niques would be measured through monitoring of pilot schemes and from the
unit farms managed by the Crop Experimental Section. This monitoring
should also provide information on management capability as reflected
in its ability to communicate new ideas to Project beneficiaries,
8.        Project Construction.  The Unit would monitor the rate of con-
struction of Project works and buildings. It would also monitor water-
yard maintenance, the costs of and returns to water supply, and the extent
of seasonal use of tracks.
Work Program
9.        Before any disbursements were made by IDA for the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit, Government acting through the Minister of Agriculture would
prepare a detailed work plan and reporting procedures for the Unit. This plan
would be submitted to IDA for comment, and would be updated each year during
the course of IDA supervision missions. A detailed report on the progress of
the Project would be submitted to IDA at least once a year, with the first
report due at the end of year 3. However, from the start the Unit would in
intervals as requested by Government and the WSDC inform about the the progress
of the Project and that of the ODM/Abu Dhabi financed Project. At the end of
the Project (year 6), the final report would present recommendations how fast
and along what lines a possible Second Phase Project of the Development
Program should be undertaken.
April 11, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Marketing Companies
Introduction
1.        The major cash crops that would be produced under the Savannah
Development Project are groundnuts and gum arabic. The marketing of these
crops is handled by private traders at traditional markets located throughout
the area. However, all gum arabic is eventually pruchased by the Gum Arabic
Company, which holds a monopoly in the export trade of this commodity; simi-
larly all groundnuts for export are purchased by the Sudan Oilseeds Company.
Both companies represent an amalgamation of former private companies which
operated in the export trade; they operate a floor pricing mechanism by which
they can intervene in the market through agents; however, as these agents are
only located at a few places on the railway line, they are not effective in
guaranteeing the minimum price to farmers at the majority of markets. Both
companies are new and relatively inexperienced. They require assistance
in developing their marketing organization and in exploring potential new
markets in the export trade.
Gum Arabic
2.        Gum arabic is mainly produced from Acacia senegal, commonly known
as 'hashab". Sudan produces about 70% of world consumption of natural gum
arabic. Gum arabic belongs to the water-soluble gum group which has three
sub-groups (a) natural gum, (b) modified natural gums, and (c) synthetic
gums. The total production of water-soluble gums is not known, but in the
United States alone some 1,800,000 tons of both natural and synthetic gum
are marketed annually. Of this 135,000 tons are used in the food industry,
which is the traditional market for natural gum arabic. This compares to an
average annual world total natural gum arabic production of some 60,000 tons,
and bears witness to the scope for market expansion. Over the past years,
Sudans' gum exports have fluctuated between 15,000 and 40,000 tons annually.
The present system of production by which small scale cultivators tap groves
of wild gum is carried out at relatively low cost - although a certain price
has to be offered to attract production, particularly when gum gardens are
some distance from the homestead, and collection may require the hiring of
camel transport and carrying drinking water. It is not surprising that in
years of a good groundnut harvest, gum collection is reduced, and when har-
vests are poor, more effort is made to collect gum. The present stability
of the market has suffered from fluctuations in supply; and when a shortage
has led to high prices, demand has fallen, and buyers have turned to sub-
stitutes.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
The Gum Arabic Company
3.        The export of gum arabic is handled by the Gum Arabic Company
Limited (GAC), which is a public concession company established in 1969;
30% of the stock is held by Government, and the balance is in private
hands. The company employs some 40 staff in Khartoum, and 70 in Port Sudan.
Most of the gum is purchased by local traders who clean and grade it, and
deliver to Port Sudan. The GAC, however, does have agents operating on
2% commission who can intervene as buyers at main markets; at present this
is confined to twelve places in the country and is not fully effective.
4.        Gum arabic is exported in four grades:
(a) Natural: as picked from the tree
(b) Cleaned: the bulk is exported in this grade, which
involves removing impurities such as bark, and bits
of other varieties of gum, together with small frag-
ments of "gum siftings" and "gum dust", which are
sold as separate grades
(c) Hand picked selected: small quantities of larger
uniform pieces are exported in this grade.
(d) Spray-dried: a new grade which is in demand by cer-
tain buyers; this grade involves further processing
but would enable the Sudan to add further value
before export.
At present, about 33% of exports go to the USA, where buyers are all members
of the Water Soluble Gum Association; 30-50% goes to European markets and
15-25% to Asian markets, chiefly Japan.
5.        GAC requires technical assistance to improve its internal market-
ing system; this company ultimately hopes to increase local processing and
to open potential new markets. The technical assistance to be provided
under the Project would assist in this effort; specifically the staff to be
recruited for the company would:
(a) investigate existing and potential markets and establish
demand parameters for the various types/qualities avail-
able;
(b) develop contacts with established buyers and detail their
specific supply and quality requirements;
(c) provide a selected Sudanese national with at least six
months of on-the-job experience with training in an
overseas consumer or technical market, including follow-
ing contracts through from ship to factory;



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(d) explore the economic feasibility and market potential
of investing in further processing of gum in the Sudan;
(e) provide assistance in translating findings from market
investigations into a long term production, pricing
and marketing policy having due regard for the impor-
tance of competing annual cash crops, particularly oil-
seeds; and
(f) set up an effective market network, including staff
training, and streamline the present market system
which appears to involve excessive cost per ton sold.
6.        It is envisaged that this technical assistance would be provided
under a consultancy arrangement and would extend for a period of two years.
Two experts would be required; one on a full-time basis to handle the devel-
opment of internal marketing and the staff training, and a second to explore
the export market and investigate the desirability of investing in further
processing within the Sudan. The second expert would not be required full-
time and could also fulfill a similar function for the Sudan Oilseeds Com-
pany; part of his work would be done outside the Sudan. Terms of reference
for these staff would be drawn up by the Government in consultation with
IDA.
The Sudan Oilseeds Company
7.        The Sudan Oilseeds Company (SOC) was set up in 1974 and is 58%
Government owned, the balance being owned by the private sector. The SOC
was put together by the amalgamation of three previous parastatal corpora-
tions - the Octomay Trading Corporation, the Shuhada Trading Corporation
and the African Trading Corporation. It has an authorised, issued and
paid up capital of bSd 6 million. It is run by a General Manager, who is
responsible to a ten-man Board of Directors; five of the directors are
Government appointees and five are recruited from the private sector.
8.        The SOC has a monopoly in the export of both groundnuts and sesame.
Much of local groundnut production is processed for oil by private traders
for local sale. Groundnut export statistics show that at present about 10%
of exports are HPS (hand picked selected) grades for the confectionary trade
and the balance is lower grade nuts ultimately destined for processing abroad.
Almost all the HPS groundnuts are from the western areas of the Sudan. There
is a limited scope to increase sales of the higher value HPS grades; the com-
pany is at present installing new grading machines at Port Sudan which are
expected to increase the proportion of HPS gradually to about 20% of total
exports. The SOC also plans to expand its oil extraction capacity with the
addition of two solvent extraction plants and one crushing plant.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
9.        The majority of exports go to Europe, but some are sold to Japan.
Export quantities for the previous five years are shown below: 1/
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976 2/
------------------'000 tons-
Production
Groundnuts                 340      390      570     540      930     930
Sesame                     300      300      340     240      230     240
Export
HPS Groundnuts   )                                             16 2/   19
)        126      115     139      130
Other Groundnuts )                                            218     230
Sesame                      86       87      105     108      108 2/  108
10.       At present most purchases are made on contract from private traders,
but the SOC also buys small quantities direct at the guaranteed floor price
at El Obeid. This operation is funded by overdraft facilities at the Bank of
Sudan. The SOC wishes to extend its ability to intervene in the market, and
although it already has agents in the Western Sudan, proposes to open new
branches in Nyala and En Nahud shortly. The SOC requires technical assistance
both to improve and expand its marketing arrangements and for export promotion
- with particular emphasis in each case on manpower training.
11.       The technical assistance staff to be financed under the Project
would:
(i)  fully investigate existing and potential markets,
especially with a view to expanding the confec-
tionary trade;
(ii)  develop contacts with established buyers and de-
tail their specific supply and quality require-
ments; and improve the quality control program,
particularly with regard to aflatoxins;
(iii)  provide a selected Sudanese national with six
months on-the-job training in an overseas con-
sumer and technical market; and
1/   Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Bank of Sudan.
2/   Source:  Sudan Oil Seeds Company, February, 1977.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(iv) set up an effectve internal market network, in-
cluding staff training.
12.       It is envisaged that this consultancy, which would be provided
in conjunction with that required for the Gum Arabic Company, would ex-
tend for a two-year period. It would require one man full-time to handle
the development of internal marketing and the staff training involved;
and a second to explore the export market (who would combine this task
with that required for gum arabic). Terms of reference for this consultancy
would drawn up by the Government.
April 11 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPM.ENT PROJECT
Human Health Survey
National Health Care Program
1.        A National Health Care Program was prepared by the Ministry of
Health with the collaboration of consultants from the World Health Organi-
zation. This program represents the Government's attempt to establish
priority areas of development in the health sector and to construct pro-
grams to overcome constraints to improved health care.
2.        Certain features of the new program represent either departures
from previous practices or a new emphasis for the National Health Service.
For example: more attention would be paid to preventive as well as to
curative medicine; coverage would be aimed at rural and nomadic peoples
as well as the urban population; and community participation and self-
help would be fostered, particularly in conjunction with a Primary Health
Care Program. Agricultural and economic development would be key elements
in this comprehensive health strategy. The overall health program would
be comprised of eight specific programs, the most important of which is
the Primary Health Care Program. Each program has a separate budget and
implementation plan and schedule. These eight programs are described
below.
(1) Nation-Wide Malaria Program
3.        This program is designed to reduce malaria transmission, and
hopefully to eventually eradicate the disease completely. DDT will be
used in rural areas, and cases in the southern region will be treated
with chlorquine. The major constraint to implementing this program is
logistic, i.e., gaining access to scattered rural settlements via a poor
or non-existent transportation system.
(2) "Man-Made" Malaria Program
4.        The aim of this program is to reduce the incidence of malaria
by controlling the conditions which create breeding places for the malaria
mosquito. The program will concentrate on educating the residents and
farmers of the large irrigation schemes in effective malaria prevention
techniques, both at home and on the farm, and on establishing basic treat-
ment centers for those who contract malaria. Benefits from this program
are both social and economic. Included in the latter are the savings from
avoiding future treatment costs and from reducing losses in production
stemming from work-days lost by malaria sufferers. The foreign exchange
cost of the program, covering anti-malarial drugs, Malathion, larvacides
and vehicles, represents 36 percent of the overall recurrent budget.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(3) Primary Health Care Program
5.        This program represents the Government's attempt to honor its
commitment to provide free health services to the entire population. The
crux of the program would be the establishment by 1984 of 1,247 new Primary
Health Care Units (PHCU), each manned by a single Primary Health Care Worker
(PHC1W). The aim is to establish one PHCU for 4,000 people. The PHCU would
have four functions: (i) it would provide basic curative health care;
(ii) it would refer major medical problems to larger health units (clinics
and hospitals); (iii) it would engage in such preventive health care activ-
ities as identification of malnutrition cases, immunizations, notifications
of epidemics, ante-natal advice and case detections; and (iv) it would
carry out health promotion activities such as advising the community on
sanitation, hygiene, safe water, nutrition. The PHCU will thus become
actively engaged in all comunity development activities. The major con-
straint to development of this program would be the training and retraining
of assistant nurses, or PHCW's. These key staff will have to be retrained
in community health and preventive medicine. In theory the PHCW's should
be recruited from the communities which they will serve.
(4) Control of Bilharzia in Irrigated Areas
C.        The aim of this program is to control bilharzia infection in the
Gezira and Managil irrigated areas by combining snail control with mass
treatment of severely affected age groups, particularly children. An addi-
tional component of this program is research on snail ecology, infection
rates and the economics of bilharzia infections and treatments in irrigated
areas.
(5) Safe Water Supplies Program
7.        The aim of this program is to provide potable drinking water for
human consumption. Shallow wells would be the main source of such water.
An increase of 100 Government dug and maintained wells per year is projected,
which would ad  to the 900 Government wells already in existence.  A major
drawback to thi approach, however, is that it would not substantially
affect the majo 'ty of Sudanese who rely on some 30,000 privately owned
wells, 850 hafir and 30 dams for water consumption.
(6) Environmental Health Program
8.        The aims and details of this program have not as yet been formu-
lated.
(7) Food (Dura) Supply Program
9.        Certain areas of Sudan, notably Darfur, Red Sea and Equatoria,
suffer from chronic shortages of the staple food, dura. These shortages
are due to lack of rainfall, lack of storage facilities, inadequate road
and transport facilities etc. The program is designed to increase agri-
cultural production in these areas in order to overcome these shortages.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
by including this as a major program for the Ministry of Health, the
Government has recognized that food shortages are as much a health as an
agricultural problem.
(8) Onchocerciasis Program
10.       The aim of this program is to reduce blindness and other disabling
complications of onchocerciasis through treatment of victims, while at the
same time instituting limited vector control in areas of high infestation.
Training of field staff and transportation, especially in the southern region,
are major constraints to implementation of this program.
Total Estimated Cost
11.       The development costs of these comprehensive health programs from
1976 to 1984 could surpass US$70 million. The major financial requirements
are the establishment of safe water supplies for human and animal consumption,
the provision of storage facilities for dura, and the supply of agricultural
inputs such as improved seeds, fertilizers, tools and machinery, pesticides
and credit. Major constraints which must be overcome include inadequate
transportation, persuading basically nomadic peoples to adopt a more hygienic
way of life, and persuading the settled population to adopt more advanced
agricultural concepts.
Project Health Component
12.       Endemic tropical diseases, particularly Malaria and Bilharzia,
are a major problem in the Project area. The lack of medical facilities,
available staff and a temporary shortage of drugs constitute serious draw-
backs to the efficient control of diseases in the area. Government has
agreed to include specific requirements for the Project area within its
proposed National Health Care Program. However, the nature and the scope
of the exact human health care needs of the people living in the Project
area have not as yet been determined. Therefore, funds (US$100,000) have
been included under the Project for a health survey of the area, and for
an evaluation of health priorities. In the initial period of Project im-
plementation Government would prepare terms of reference for the study.
April 11, 1977



ANNEX 12
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost
1.        Total Project cost is estimated at LSd 15.3 million (US$38.2
million), of which about US$18.5 million or about 48% would represent foreign
exchange requirements. Capital costs would amount to US$15.8 million or 41%
of Project costs and operating costs would total US$22.4 million or 59% of
total Project cost. Project costs are detailed in the following tables by
categories and by Project components. Costs have been estimated at prices
prevailing at the time of appraisal plus expected price escalations to March
1977. A physical contingency of 10% has been included. In addition price
contingencies totalling 33% of base cost have been included to allow for
expected increases for both local and foreign costs; these are equivalent
on average to a cumulative annual price contingency of about 10%.  Price
contingencies are based on estimated levels of price increases for Project
items in the Sudan. In estimating expected price increases it was assumed
that in Project year one no development would take place and that the imple-
mentation would start gradually in year two and be finished in year six.
The specific price escalation factors used in calculating these price con-
tingencies are detailed below:
1980
1976    1977    1978    1979         onwards
Buildings and Construction        13%      12%      12%     12%          10%
Vehicles and Equipment             9%       8%       8%      8%           7%
Other Costs                       10%       8%       8%      8%           7%
2.        Import taxes and duties on Project goods are estimated at 4Sd 2.4
million (US$6.0 million) and have been included.
3.        The costs of the proposed Project represent the costs of the
proposed first phase of the development program. Approximate cost estimates
were also prepared for a possible Second Phase Project of the Development
Program (see Annex 14). These data were needed to determine the rate of
return of the program given an estimated full development period of ten to
twelve years.
April 11, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost (by Organizational Units)
(ESd'OOO)
Detailed Costs
Total      Foreign       Taxes &   in Annex 12
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 1-5        Exchange     Duties    No.
Executive Director's Office - Nyala                   33.0        4.2         4.2       4.2        4.2       49.8          26          16             3
Khartoum Office                                       15.7        9.3         9.3       9.3        9.3       52.9          12           24            4
Administration and Finance Division-Nyala             78.3       14.0        1.40      1.40       14.0      134.3          28           25            5
World Food Program Unit - Nyala                       59.6       38.2        20.4      25.4       27.0      170.6          27           10            6
Procurement Division-Nyala and Port Sudan            244.8       36.7       36.7       36.7      36.7       421.6          35          20             7
Marketing Division-Nyala and Ed Daein                 43.5       79.2        45.4      46.4       41.5      256.0          41           22            8
Civil Works Division-Nyala and Ed Daein              491.0      190.0      207.0      213.0     199.0    1,300.0           52          21             9
Water Yards Division                                 879.0      160.0      162.0      167.0     161.0    1,529.0           51           23           10
Land Management Division-Nyala                        57.1      "25-9       25.9       25.9      25.9       160.7          87           4            11
Land Management Unit -Ghazala Gawarat                212.2       58.8       69.7       76.0       74.8      491.5          40           22           12
Deputy Director's Office and Administrative Unit   142.5         30.7       32.7       32.6       32.9      271.4          29          21            13
Range Division        "     "         "         "    280.5       91.7      124.1      132.9     124.2       753.4          48           15           14
Livestock Division  !J      "          "        "    273.5       82.1       92.8       93.7       87.8      629.9          52           14           15
Veterinary Services-Eastern District                 218.3      161.1       70.1       77.2       70.1      596.8          36           20           16
Training Center -Ghazala Gawazat                     386.1      '99.9      102.9      101.7     100.9       791.5          48          19            17
Crop Diviaion        "        "                      309.4      106.3      105.3      102.3     112.1       735.4         53           14           18
Nucleus Development Center-Eastern District          489.5      112.5      129.4      173.6      144.0    1,049.0          40           17           19
Farm Management -Ghazala Gawazat                     138.5       72.4       43.6       44.3       44.2      343.0          51           12           20
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit-Klartoum              151.4      135.8       136.1     135.8      137.6      696.7          69            5           21
Technical Assistance to Marketing Companies          105.0      105.0                   -          -        210.0          81            5           22
Health Survey                                          -         140.0                                        o  40.,0    130                  -      _
TOTAL BASE COST                             4,638.9   1,653.8    1,431.6   1,512.0   1,447.2   1O,683.5             48          16
Physical Contingencies                        464.o     155.0       1143.0     151.0     l45.0    1,o68.o           48          I.6
Price Contingencies                         1,o045.0    446.o       515.0      711.0     827.0    3,544.0           48          16
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          6,1147.9   2,264.8    2 089.6   2,374.0   2,419.2   15,295.5           48           16
Note:  Year 1 corresponds to fiscal year 1978/79.
January 24, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost (by Item)
(ESd'000)
Total       Foreign      Taxes and
Year 1    Year 2       Year 3     Year 4      Year 5    Year 1-5    Exchange    Duties
Buildings and Construction    1,871.0       190.5       83.1        121.5      57.0       2,323.1      50            14
Vehicles                         988.9       52.9        -            -        24.0       1,065.8      63            34
Farm Equipment and Supplies      949.5      53.2         5.1          6.3       8.0      1,022.1       61            19
Internationally Recruited
Staff           130.0      160.0      220.0        220.0     220.0         950.0     100             _
Consultancies                    105.0     106.q       101.0        101.0     101.0        514.0      100             _
Local Salaries and Allowances   322.7      614.5       631.4        644.9     651.2       2,864.7      -             17
Vehicle Operation                 63.8      165.1      176.0        185.&     174.1         764.4      77            17
Miscellaneous 1/                 208.0      311.6      215.0        232.9     211.9       1,179.4      60            14
TOTAL BASE COST             4,638.9   1,653.8    1,431.6      1,512.0   1,447.2      10,683.5       48            16
Physical Contingencies        464.0     165.0       143.0        151.0     145.0       1,068.0      48            16
Price Contingencies         1,045.0     446.0       515.0        711.0     827.0      3,544.0       48            16
TOTAL PROJECT COST          6,147.9   2.264.8    2,089.6                                            48            16
1/ Rentals, Office Expenses, Transport of Millet for the World Food Program, Casual Labor, Miscellaneous Supplies
for Livestock and Crop Components. Materials for Maintenance for the Water Yards and Civil Works Divisions,
Hire of Aircraft, Fellowships - Largest single items are Materials for Maintenance in the Water Yards
and Civil Works Divisions (OSd 448,000) and Fellowships (39 man-years, ESd 163,000).
Note: Year 1 corresponds to fiscal year 1978/79
April ll, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Project Cost ( by Item )
Sd'000 ---------               ----    US$'000----------          Foreign
ITEMS                                     Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total           Exchange
Buildings and Construction                1,262      1,161      2,323      2,905     2,903      5,808            50
Vehicles                                    394        672      1,066        985     1,680      2,665            63
Farm Equipment and Supplies                 408        614      1,022      1,022     1,535      2,557            61
Internationally Recruited Staff              -         950        950        -       2,375      2,375           100
Consultancies                                -         514        514        -       1,285      1,285           100
LocalSalaries and Allowances             2,865         -       2,865      7,162        -       7,162            -
Vehicle Operation                           176        588        764        440     1,470      1,910            77
Miscellaneous                                511       668      1,219      1,277      1,671     2,948            60
Total Base Cost                        5,510      5,167    10,683    13,791    12,919    26,710               48
Physical Contingencies (10%)                552        576      1,068      1,379     1,290      2,669            48
Price Contingencies                       1,839      1,705      3,544      4,598     4,263      8,861            48
Total Project Cost                     7,907      7,388    15,295    19,768    18,472    38,240               48
Headings of this table regroup headings of Annex 12, Table 1, as follows:  Project Management indlude the executive
Director's Office, the Khartoum Office, the Administration and Finance Division, the Procurement Division, the
Marketing Division, E Sd 690,000 of the Civil Work Division's East, and the Deputy Director's Office amd Administrative
Unit; Settlement and Crops include the World Food Program Unit, the Land Management Unit, the Crop Division,
the Nuclears Development Centers and the Farm Management.  Water Facilities include the Water Yard Division and
L Sd 610,000 of the Civil Works Division.  The other headings are self explanatory.                                       X 
March 4, 1977



ANNEX 1 3
Table 
dIDAN
SAVANNAHi DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Tentative Sources of Fi noocinu of Project Cost
Vehicle
operationtt
Local        jiuiclodiog                                                                               Financiog of
Aouiding                       anrv                                               Salaries    fool, sparta                                                        Poreigo     Locol    Foreign    Locol         Fi 9occicg of Total Coot
S&NNCES  Cot                            Ioterratioua-lly                          &         tires hot cot                    6/                 2/  Total      fochanfe   Coot       Esohange   Cost WhitA Taset             Wlthoot Toots
SOURCES                                           V.M/,t -tiou  Tahiclta   and Supplir-    Recruited Sttff   Co-ultanciLs   All---oves   Local SelonIs.)  ir..cella.eo. r   Cootinoenccta  Cost         (U5S  '000)               (/)                         l')
SEA 2'           S,                    2.560            -          T2CT                loA40                              44AD         96                   -                  600         600-                    -            -        -              --
USA                     6,600            -          5CCO                2,600                            1,100        2,400                                  1,500         17 000       12,000   5,000          65        25              45              53
Soadi Food for Deulop-et (SF) ~
S  F A                   -- D,20C                     -                   -                 350            -             -                  1,400               250         3,400          -        -            -        -               -               -
US$                       -            5,  C         -                   -              1,400             -             -                  3,500               600         8,500        6,500   2,000          35        10              22              26
Cooernenut 5/
hoSd                      --                          ---                                                2,400           --300                                              2,700          -        -            -        -                 
OS$                       -              -                                                               6 2 ,00                                                740         6,740          -      6,740                   34             1;               21
P-jcct Coat Set of Toota & Duties
i Sd                    2,560          1,200        1,200               1,040              550           2,840          960                 1,400             1,150        12,900                          -              -               -               -
US$                     6,400          3.000        3,000               2,600            1,400           7,100        2,403                 3,500             2,840        32,240       18,500  13,740           100      69              64             100
Taeer ond Duties (Govercmec t)
iS Sd                     400            400          320                 -                -               600          200                   240               240         2,400          -        -             -       -               -
US$                     1,000          1,000          600                 -                 -            1,560          S00                   600               600         6,000           -     6,000           -        31             16              -
Project Coot cith Taxes a-d  unei
A Sd                    2,960          1 600        1.520               1,040              330           3.440        1,160                 1,640             1,390        15,300          -        -
US$                     7,400          4,000        3,600               2.600            1,400           8,600        2,900                 4,100             3,440        38,240       18,500  19,740           100     100             100
/j  Proposed fieacrig os to coopuueuta sud axountr '  t-ntative sod  -cije-t to change.
2/   About U00  0.1 mill'on or obout 707 of the total amount of  -ostiug-ucits, physicIl o,d pric,. (US11$ l. S illion) hbo  Aeeo distributed to coopooeut veAre price i..re..e
Is expected du-iug Project ioplsoetectio.   .oveeur, US$ 3.4  illiio  or abuat 30% of .orel stinated  ooniugcieg has beec rerdined as a lorp sum sod left .uallogatad
fre   --anefer to proposed coopoconto or as teuired.
Unit                                          Covernment S
(11 50 000         3/        SF 4/        Total    Out of which Tao  aod Duties    TOTAL
Buildiegs and Cousttuction                           6,400           -          1. 000                  1,000                  7.400
Vehicles                                             3,000           -          1,000                   1,000                  6,000
Ecuip-ent                                              -           3,000           600                    800                  3,800
Icterntilonally Recruited Staff                      2,600           -             -                      -                    2,600
Consultanciet                                          -           1,400           -                      -                    1,400
Locol Solaries sod Allooancer                        1,100           -          7,500                   1,S00                  8,600
VOhload  Operations                                  2,400           -             500                    500                  2.900
4oct11-aneous 6/                                       -           3.500           60                    600                  4,100
Cosciugnoci.s                                        )fl_5,0         600        1,340                     600                  3,440
Total/Perent                    17,000                     12 ,740                 6.000                 3C.240
hi   si....laneou. iucilda  -aluod at base liso coat  (i6 Sd '006)
- gental ------------------90
- Office Etp-nat-----------40
- Trotspert Cost for
Millet provided by WFP--1IO
- C.au.l Labor-------------I
- Otacellonrous Ttvrtctt o nd ToppLics--
- Sattriale for Oaiul       '1'-
tuecace ot eocerpocdo
end civil axcbo div
divist   ---------450
- Felloviohi N-----~ 130
- hire or Aircraf --        60
Total             1*180 (Added 220 or 20/, coucingenciet)
Harchb 6, 1070



ANNEX 13
Table 2
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                           Disbursements 1/
and Quarter End           ------Quarterly -------     ------Cumulative--------
(LSd'000)     (US$'000)      (ESd'00O)       (US$'000)
Year 1978
December 1977 2/
March 1978
June 1978
Year 1979
September 1978                -              -              -              -
December 1978                300            750           300             750
March 1979                   500           1250            800           2000
June 1979                    600           1500          1400            3500
Year 1980
September 1979               800           2000          2200            5500
December 1979               1000           2500          3200            8000
March 1980                   500           1250          3700            9250
June 1980                    400           1000          4100           10250
Year 1981
September 1980               300            750          4400           11000
December 1980                200            500          4600           11500
March 1981                   200            500          4800           12000
June 1981                    200            500          5000           12500
Year 1982
September 1981               300            750          5300           13250
December 1981                200            500          5500           13750
March 1982                   200            500          5700           14250
June 1982                    200            500          5900           14750
Year 1983
September 1982               300            750          6200           15500
December 1982                200            500          6400           16000
March 1982                   200            500          6600           16500
June 1983                    100            250          6700           16750
Year 1984
September 1983               100            250          6800           17000
December 1983                 -              -              _              _
March 1984 3/                 -              _
l/  Expected Date of Signing August 1977.
2/ Expected Date of Effectiveness November 1977.
31 Expected Closing Date March 1984.



ANNEX 13
Table  3
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tentative Withdrawal of the
Proceeds of the Credit
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Category                                   Amount of the           Percentage
Credit Allocated             of
(Expressed in          Expenditure
Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
1.   Buildings and Construction              6,400,000                 86%
II.  Farm Equipment and Supplies             3,000,000             100% of foreign
(including heavy earth                                        expendutures for
moving equipment, generator                                   directly imported
sets, farm tractors, miscellan-                               items and 80% of
eous farm equipment, furniture                                locally procured
and other equipment and                                       items.
supplies).
III. Consultants' Services                   2,600,000                 100%
(Internationally Recruited
Staff)
IV.  Local Salaries and Allowances           1,100,000             15% of local
expenditures
V.   Vehicle Operation (including            2,400,000             100% of foreign
fuel, spares, tires, but                                      expenditures for
excluding local salaries).                                    directly imported
items and 80%
of locally procured
items.
VI.  Unallocated                             1,500,000
TOTAL         17,000,000
April 11, 1977



ANNEX  13
Table 4
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PRO ECT
Estimated Phasin- of Staff Daplosent
---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ----  --- ---   -------- -    Y    E     A     R  -- -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -  --  -- -  --  --  - --  --  - --  --  -  --  -- -  --  --  - --  --  --______--          -  --  --  - --  --  -  -- --  -
COMFPONETS                          Intent-ti.oally           ________--Iocal__________ I ternat.i..lly l----------L.cl---------                                1.e--i-1lY    -----------cL-Lc----------                        - --Loca--------llon no-tio l    -Local                              ..tenat ocally  -----------local--------
Rec--itod                Profesos'al         Sonnortlno        Rooroited                                                       R_ofosslocol  Soooootfoo  icnoited  P-of-saioocl    sNpportieg  Rorte-itd P-fealcl                     N-, i-            Re    ind           Profes.innal   Soncntife
kxoti-ve Dirootone  Offio                  -                         -                                     -                        -                 5                  --                                                                                    -                                    -5
Uhatoum Office                             -                         2                 2                   -                        2                 2                  -                        2                2                   _                       2                 2                  -                     2              2
Admfiietr-tioo aod Fi-anoc
Division                                   -                         3                 2                   -                        3                 2                  -                                                       3                 2-                                               -                                    2
W-old Food Pro-rsUnit                      -                         -                 -                   -                        3                 6                  -                        3                6                   -                       3                 6                  -                     3              6
Procurement Division                       -                         5                17                  -                         5                17                  -                       5                17                   -                       5                17                  -                     5             17
Ma-l-tifg Diveiosi                         -- -                                         -                                           6                17                  _                       6                23                   -                       6                26                  -                     6             28
Civil Utrks Division-
Adm.nist raon                              -                         2                  1                  -                        9                37                                           9 9             37                   -                       9                39                   -                    9             39
Civil Works-iicenry-rds & HNafi
Con. troctioc &  fRehab. ititlot           -                         -                 -                                            8 8             42                   -                        8               42                   _                       8                42                   -                    8             42
Civil Works - Watnny-nds
Dlviloei                                   -                         8               133                   -                        8              142                   -                        8              142                   _                       8               142                   -                     8           142
Land Ni.age-nct Divicion -
Nyala                                      1                          I                 _                  I                        I                 -                  1                        I                                    1                       1 I               _                                         1 I
Land Management Unit -
Gh I.ala U.a..at                           -                          2                 6                  -                       12                31                  -                       12                31                  -                      12                31                   -                    12             31
Deputy Di-eonon's Offi-o  and              -                         5                16                                            9 N              21                  -                        9                21                  -                       9                21                   -                     9             21
Admicist-ative UVit-Gha-clo Uawacat
RE gf  Division - Gho-cla Uaoanat  1                                 4                14                   1                       11                58                  1                       11                77                  1                      11                95                   1                    11             95
Livestook Elvlsloc-Uhanala   an.           1                         5                15                   1                       13                25                  1                       13                27                  1                      13                27                   1                    13             27
Veterneary  Se-i -ce  -Eastern
Distoi                                     -                          8               14                   -                       10                38                   -                      14                55                   -                      14               55                   -                    14             55
T-nieiog Cnoten - Uhacala
UOea-t                                     1                          5                g                   1                       14                17                   1                      14                17                   1                      14                17                  1                    14             17
Crop Division - Gh-.la
Vauous                                     -                          3               13                   1                       14                47                   1                      i4                47                   1                      14               47                    1                   14             47
Noocless Develtpment Cntnnrs -
Eastorn Dli-riot                           -                         5                24                   -                       30                69                   -                      30                69                   -                      33                69                  -                    42             72
PaFn, =-afgm-et Unio - Cha-la
.accect                                    I                          1               16                   1                        2                24                   1                       2                26                   1                       2                26                   1                     2             26
nMoitonSog cod Esaloatioc Uoit -
Kh-tnoum                                   2                         12               16                   2                       12                16                   2                      12                16                   2                      12                16                   2                    12             i6
TOTAL                    7                         71              302                   _                      172               616                  _                      17U               662                  _                      16795                                 _                    mm_            6
Tenochal A-ittanoe to
Harketing Ctmpa-ie                        3                                                               3
Jan-a-y 3,1976



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Yr.1I                      Yr.2                         Yr.3                        Yr.4                         Yr.5                        Yr. 6
1. Procurement
Prepare Contract Documents --- ------ -----J----- ---- ---|----- ------__-____
Advertise & Issue Documents--                               J    L                     . -
Adjudicate Bids                        .                                  -----     - -
Approve Bids                                                        [       -      - ---
Award Contracts ------------------------------  ---------------- ------ ------
Deliver Commodities -                                                                                  . _-.-_-_-_-_-_ _           . _
2. Protessional Personnel at Post . --------    --    --------------                                    ------- 
3. Constiuct BuHldings         ----------------------------         ----------------------------
4. Construct Hafirs  ------                                               .----------------------------------  _-_-_---_---_-.-_-_-_-_-,-_-_-._--
5. Operate& Maintain Water Yards                                  I - --                                      __  ,_, ___
6  Operate Adaptive Research Center--               -                    J        -                   -
7. Operate Nucleus Development Centers--------------------                   -    -     -     i----
8. Operate Range Centers. -                                 -  -  -                           ;                         _ ------_  _
9. Operate Veterinary Services -                            -        -                         -        J     -        ----- -----------  -----
10. Operate World Food Program.                        ----                 ----J----------------                          -
11. Resettlement                                                                                                                             
Preparation   -  -   -   -    -  -     -  -    -     --- - --       r     -      l -   ----------
O pen    W ater  Yards  -- - - - - - -- - -  - - -  -      -- -  ---   -- -- -  --   ---  --  - -       --  -    -- - - - -    -- -   -----_1__ I   $_._  __  
Implementation -------                                 -----  ---------------  - - -              t     -      -                                                                       - J  !---
Crop Marketing Pilot Scheme                                  I -   -              , ------------- ----,._                                                                                                      _   _     1_.
12. Technical Assistance for Marketing Companies, -----I-------                 --------
13. Health Component Survey -----------------------------  --1--------------
14. Monitoring & Evaluation  -                                                                               +          z -    ----t'- -  t                                  A       + t- --  1-t-t---t                 t
iProlect Implementation Period Estimated at Five Years. Assume that in year one nothing would occur. An additional year (year 6) has been added for
slippage. On all tables year 1 corresponds with year 2 of the Implementation Schedule.
2houses scheduled to be completed in sixteen months
'Ghazala Gawazat.
'Oil Seed Company and Gum Arabic Company                                                                                                                                                                              World Bank-1 6611



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE
PROFESSIONAL STAFF EMPLOYMENT AND HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
1 00h                                                                                                                                                                        - - 
-c
E7 75%                                                                              7-%
C)
ct
0
5m 50%                                                                                                                                                                                                             50%
2'
25% ;                                   ______                                               -----            _ _-     X           -------------        -                                                   j25%
O                                                                                                           -        ~                  ~- Construction Mo- bilization                                    Jo
Months       7            8           9            10           1 1         12           1            2            3           4            5           6            7            8           9           10
Year 1                                                                                  Year 2
World Bank-- 6942



ANNEX 14
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Preliminary Cost of a Possible Second
Phase Project of the Development Program
1.        Preliminary cost estimates have been made for a possible Second
Phase Project within the Development Program (Second Phase Project). These
estimates were made on the assumption that the first phase (the Project) would
prove successful. Such an assumption was necessary to measure the full impact
of the development program over a thirty year period; initially investments
would be concentrated on infrastructure (mostly buildings), adaptive research,
institution building, veterinary services, and water supply maintenance; their
benefits would materialize only gradually over a long period.
2.        Total Second Phase Project cost is estimated at hSd 12.6 million
(US$31.5 million), of which about US$13.0 million or about 40% would represent
foreign exchange requirements, and US$5.5 million taxes and duties. In the
Second Phase Project capital costs would be negligible; costs would mainly
consist of operating expenses, as the bulk of capital investments would have
been made in the first phase. Although it is inevitable that a Second Phase
Project would expand and/or alter the concept of the Project (first phase), no
additional investments were included, as any such changes would make it
difficult to measure the impact of the Second Phase Project merely as a
continuation of the Project (first phase). As in the Project (first phase),
costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in March 1977. A physical
contingency of 10% has been included. In addition, price contingencies of 90%
have been included to allow for expected increases for local and foreign costs
beyond the date of baseline cost estimates; these are equivalent on average to
a compound price contingency of 7% per annum. Price contingencies are based
on estimated levels of price increases for Project items in the Sudan. In
estimating expected price increases it was assumed that in Project year one no
development would take place, and that the implementation would start gradually
in year two and be finished in year six, or over a period of twelve years both
phases combined.
April 11, 1977



ANXEX 14
T.ble I
SUDALN
SAVANNAHd DPVELOPXIET PROJECT
S,iary of ProJect Cost (by Or-sni..ti.n.l Unit) - Phase 11
Estimated Secon.d Ph.se Co-t
(E Sd ' 000)
--------- - Yer ---------------------------------  Total               7                %
6                7                 8                 9                 10             Year 6-10         Foreign          T - e  &
Esohange         Duties
Director Office                                   4.2              4.2               4.2               4.2               4.2              21.0               -               20
Administration & Finance Division                          31.8              14.0              14.0              14.0              14.0              87.8             19               30
World Fo-d Program Umi                                     31.4              54.2              36.9              37.8              26.9             187.2              19                9
Procurement Division                                       70.3              36.7              36.7              36.7              36.7             217.1             20               25
Morke-ina Division                                          -                41.5              82.2              43.7              41.5             308.9              38               23
Civil Works Division                                      455.0             155.0             184.0             166.0             164.0          1,124.0              54               21
L-nd M-nagenen  Unit                                      166.4              76.0              74.8              76.7              76.0             469.9             40               22
Dtputv Director Office and Ad-. Unit                       70.0              32.9              32.6              32.9              32.4             200.8             29               21
Rtn-g  Divisioc                                           173.5              89.3              88.6              89.3              88.6             529.3             48               15
Livestcik Divisico                                        107.1              54.7              53.8              53.5              53.8             322.9             52               14
V., Servic-  - ECSt Dli.rici                              146.8              70.1              68.2              70.1              68.2             423.4              26              20
Training C-nter                                            56.7              57.9              56.7              57.9              56.7             225.9             40               21
Crop Divisio                                              133.0              79.7             107.5              90.3              30.7             491.2             36               17
N-c1eus Dov. Cen-trs. - Ea  District                      375.5             211.4             220.2             189.2             173.0           1,169.3             29                8
Fhnn M-nafmnoot Unic                                       88.8              23.6              24.3              24.2              23.6             184.5             48               14
Monitoring & Evaluation                                    80.8              72.2              72.5              76.2              70.0            371.7              60               12
Total                                              1,991.3           1,073.4           1,157.2          1,062.7           1,010.3           6,294.9              40               17
Physical Contingencies (10%)                              199.0             107.0             116.0             106.0             101.0             629.0             40               17
Price Contingencies                                     1,345.0             857.0           1,078.0           1,148.0          1,239.0           5,661.0              40               17
Tocl                                               3535.3            2.037.4          2,351.2           2 310.7           2,350.3          12f584.9              40               17
Nove-b-r 9, 1976.



ANNEX 15
Page   I
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management
A. Background
1.        In light of the difficulty involved in initiating, coordinating
and implementing the proposed Project, it was recognized by Government that
presently none of the existing institutions was capable of undertaking such
a task; alternative strategies for Project implementation were therefore
carefully evaluated. Certain basic requirements immediately became clear;
these include:
(a) The need for broad involvement of participants in the
formulation of local policies and in Project planning and
implementation.
(b) The necessity of strengthening local institutions so that
they would be capable of better planning and control. The
Rural Council (presently the lowest level of government
authority) should be permitted to develop into an author-
ity which could coordinate local services, establish
financial guidelines and controls, and recruit the profes-
sional staff necessary for the effective administration
of broadly based development programs. At present, these
councils are not - even if given sufficient staff - capa-
ble of assuming responsibility for the institution of
either settlement or other types of agricultural develop-
ment programs. On the other hand, the councils are the
accepted channels of local representative Government, and
they are natural points for institutional development; it
was felt that any new programs should give priority to the
strengthening of these councils.
(c) The enlargement of Provincial planning, evaluation and
appraisal capabilities. Present planning mechanisms
exhibit a certain bias towards the modern agricultural
sector; what is needed is a more comprehensive evaluation
of both social and economic goals and a policy focus which
would help to reduce the great disparities which now exist
between the more and the less developed regions. The
Provinces are presently confined by their inability to
prepare and submit any plan beyond isolated departmental
initiatives on capital expenditures.
(d) The need to ensure that, given the Sudan's presently
centralized control of major development expenditures,



ANNEX 15
Page   2
the Project should be fully integrated in the national
development policy and should be given adequate support
at the national level.
B. Western Savannah Development Corporation
2.        It was agreed with Government that a Western Savannah Development
Corporation (WSDC) would be established in South Darfur Province to coordinate
and undertake comprehensive development programs in the area. It was felt
that such a centralized agency would initially prove better able to implement
development projects than would one of the specialized agencies already
established (e.g. the Ministry of Agriculture), particularly when in many
cases responsibility for a certain activity might otherwise be divided between
several agencies. Particular care was taken, however, that the WSDC would not
become another permanent fixture in the Government bureaucracy; it was agreed
that once each functional division of the WSDC had become successfully establi-
shed and a certain expertise gained, this division, together with its staff,
would be transferred to the Provincial institution with authority in that
area.
3.        The WSDC, when established, would initially have responsibility
for the implementation of the two projects expected to be undertaken in
South Darfur Province - the ODM/Abu Dhabi project in the Southern District
and the proposed Project in the Eastern District.
4.        The WSDC would be established as a public corporation under the
Public Sector Corporations Act of 1976 (see Appendix 1). It would be headed
by a Board of Directors, with the Provincial Commissioner acting as Chairman.
The Director General of the WSDC would serve as Secretary to the Board; other
members would include: the appropriate Assistant Commissioners (including
the executives of the Rural Councils in the Project area), local leaders,
and a representative from the Ministry of Agriculture. The WSDC Headquarters
would be established at Nyala, although various staff would be located
elsewhere in the Province according to where they would be utilized most
efficiently. A small office with four persons would be established in
Khartoum to accelerate procurement of goods and services under the Project;
the office would contact ministries, banks, port and railway authorities,
etc. as part of comprehensive effort to streamline Project execution.
5.        The WSDC would have a number of operating divisions under the
Director General at Nyala. The Deputy Director General located at Ghazala
Gawazat, would be technically in charge of operations located at Ghazala
Gawazat but would report to and be responsible to the Director General. The
organization of the WSDC is illustrated on the attached Chart (World Bank
16579). All staff employed by the WSDC would be financed under either the
ODM/Abu Dhabi Project or the IDA Project. Local staff would be seconded to
the WSDC by the Ministry of Agriculture or would be recruited directly.



ANNEX 15
Page   3
6.        The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources, would
support the WSDC in several ways in addition to the provision of staff noted
above. As with other public corporations for which the Ministry renders
special services (see attached Chart, World Bank 16490), the Minister would
review the annual budget and work programs prepared by the WSDC; if acceptable
to him, the Minister would then submit the WSDC's budget to the central bud-
getary authorities for final approval.
7.        In the field, the WSDC would work closely with the Provincial Council,
as well as with the other local administrations (District Councils, Rural
Councils, Village Councils, etc.). It is expected that WSDC field officers
(especially those involved in the settlement program) would become ex-officio
members of the Rural Councils, and members of the Village Councils; in this
role the officers would be able to advise the councils with regard to those
of the latter's activities which might affect the programs being administered
by the WSDC. Also, new farming and ranching communities which would be set up
during Project implementation would be encouraged by the WSDC to seek recogni-
tion as Village or Nomad Councils by the Provincial Council. In fact, one
of the most important roles of the WSDC would be to work actively to give the
local councils a sense of purpose and identity so that they could become an
effective and permanent part of the local administrative structure.
DA Staffing and Salaries
8.        The WSDC would require a Staff of some 200 professionals and 700
supporting staff. It is possible that initially there might be some diffi-
culty in recruiting these staff, as the Sudanese civil servants are reluctant
to work in the Project area (or in any part of western Sudan) because of the
difficult working conditions and poor services, and also because they fear
being by-passed professionally if stationed away from Khartoum. It is
estimated that only 10% of the professional and 20% of the supporting staff
would be recruited in the Project area from existing institutions.  This
problem would be partially overcome by paying all staff at the wage levels
prevailing in corporations which operate predominately on commercial prin-
ciples. The salary levels to be paid by the WSDC would be stipulated in its
Act of Establishment. In addition, housing would be built for almost all
professional and half of the support staff, and professionals would be granted
special allowances (furniture and travel) paid for under the Project. This
salary scale was suggested and endorsed by Government and would be effective
immediately upon establishment of the WSDC in order to ensure that the Corpora-
tion would be able to attract the necessary highly qualified staff.  The need
to recruit qualified and dedicated staff for the WSDC requires that conditions
of employment should be attractive; on the other hand, rigorous screening,
both for the staff which would be seconded from other authorities to the WSDC
or employed by it, should be observed. To this end strict criteria in selec-
ting staff for the WSDC would have to be followed.
9.        Provision would be made under both the ODM/Abu Dhabi Project and
the proposed IDA Project for the international recruitment of several key
staff for the WSDC. Seventeen such positions have been identified. Positions
required under the proposed IDA Project would include:



ANNEX 15
Page   4
(a) at Ghazala Gawazat: 2 Senior Research Officers for the
Range and Livestock Divisions respectively; 1 Range
Management Instructor for the Training Center; and 1
Senior Agronomist (in charge of extension) and 1 Weed
Specialist for the Crop Division; and
(b) at Nyala: 1 Senior Cartographer for the Land Management
Division; and 1 Agricultural Economist and 1 Sociologist
for the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
Terms of reference for these staff are given in Appendix 2. Certain other
internatinally recruited staff would be provided under the ODM/Abu Dhabi
Project; these would include:
(a) at Ghazala Gawazat: 1 Senior Agronomist (in charge of the
Crop Experimental section); 1 NDC Manager; 1 Agricultural
Engineer for the Crop Division (also in charge of experiments
with ox-drawn equipment).
(b) at Nyala: 1 Senior Civil Works Engineer; 1 Construction
Engineer (Supervision of works); 1 Mechanical Engineer
(Supervisor of the workshop for the WSDC); 1 Financial
Controller; 1 Senior Advisor to WSDC's Director General;
1 Head of Land Management Unit.
These staff would be phased out from in-line executive posts either completely
or into advisory posts during the life of the Project. The development of
local management capability would be an important part of the Project, and
internationally recruited staff would be expected to train local staff to
take over their roles.
Conclusion
10.       The WSDC's main functions would be in the areas of land use planning
and implementation, livestock development and animal health control, range
management, crop production, development of farming systems, technological
improvement, provision and regulation of water supplies, marketing etc.,
areas which are interrelated. The development work in these areas of the
existing departments and ministries, partially or in toto, would come under
the WSDC, at least temporarily. However, there would be certain development
functions which would not be the exclusive concern of the Authority. For ex-
ample, the WSDC would not attempt to direct the development plans of ministries
such as Education and Health in the program area. Obviously, advice would be
offered and close coordination sought, but the Authority would not itself
attempt to control all those aspects of integrated development that it has an
interest in.



ANNEX 15
Page   5
11.       The proposed strategy of the Project rests on the assumption
that it is only by gradual amelioration of conditions within the existing
land use system that major environmental deterioration and human suffering
can be avoided in the long term. It is only such an approach which would
make possible the sustained rise in agricultural and livestock production
in the Project area. The Project organization as proposed is similarly
cautious. The existing administrative structure is likely to remain the
basis of Government activity, and thus it must be part of the framework for
development planning. The ecological problems of South Darfur as part of
the Western Savannah obviously defy territorial administrative boundaries,
but as the Province seems to be the basic effective unit of administration,
any attempt at para-provincial planning which would ignore the amdinistrative
provincial context of implementation is likely to fail. Similarly, it is
unrealistic to expect departmentalism simply to fall away assuming good
planning intentions. Certainly the organization as outlined is predominantly
based on local support; this is inevitable given the character of the Project.
It is also in the nature of the Project that its successful implementation
will depend almost entirely on popular support. Similarly, institutional
success will depend upon creating a framework that allows those cultivators
and pastoralists most affected by the Project to begin to exert influence
over institutions which now appear to them as remote and occasionally hostile.
Moreoever, the Project's strategy should aim to make those institutions
responsive to the need for a sustained rural development servicing primarily
the crop producers and pastoralists in the Project area.
March 9, 1977



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Public Enterprises 1/
Introduction
I.        Before 1950, there were a few small agricultural schemes which
operated as public enterprises. These were mainly concerned with production
and marketing of cotton under the management of semi-autonomous boards such
as the GASH, the TOKAR DALTA, the While Nile Scheme, the Nuba Mountain Scheme,
etc. Gradually Government gained relevant experience in managing and operat-
ing large scale public enterprises, and around 1950, the Gezira Agricultural
Scheme (Scheme) was nationalized 1/, and operated as a tripartite partnership.
The terms of this arrangement were that:
(a)  Government provided the land and water; this brought for-
ward the construction of the Sennar Dam, and all other
related irrigation works.
(b) The two companies 2/ provided management and the technical
know-how.
(c) The tenants provided labor and all operations as required.
The Scheme presently produces crops on an area of somewhat over 0.8 million
ha.
2.        The successful experience in managing and operating the Scheme
induced Government to establish other public enterprises. It felt that pub-
lic enterprises would be an effective instrument in developing the economy
by utilizing more efficiently the country's resources, introducing modern
technology, and by increasing physical output and income of Government, the
corporation and the participants. In the late fifties and early sixties
several new public corporations were established; these included: the Agri-
cultural Bank; the Industrial Bank; the Agricultural Production Corporation;
the Mechanized Farming Corporations; the Agricultural Research Corporation;
Sudan Railways Corporation; Sudan Airways Corporation; the Rural Water
1/   Public Enterprises are treated as public corporations.
2/   The Gezira Agricultural scheme before nationalization was operated
by two British companies: the Sudan Plantation Syndicate and the
Kassala Cotton Company.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 2
Corporation, etc. In addition, other corporate bodies similar to public
corporations were established; these included: the Bank of Sudan, the
Khartoum University and the Omdorman Islamic University.
3.        In May 1970 Government nationalized selected industrial and commer-
cial enterprises; which substantially increased the number of public enter-
prises. At that time Government felt that all public enterprises would have
to be classified into two basic groups depending on the work they were doing.
The outcome of that classification was a division of all public enterprises
into:
(a) Service and Public Utility Corporations; and
(b) Corporations which operate predominantly on commercial
principles.
Examples of the Service and Public Utility Corporations are: Sudan Railways;
Electricity and Water Corporation; Rural Waters Corporation; and the Agricul-
tural Research Corporation. These corporations are subdivided into subsectors
according to their activities; thus there is: the Commercial Sector under
the Minister of Finance, Planning and National Economy; the Industrial Sector
under the Minister of Industry, the Agricultural Sector under the Minister
of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources; the Transport Sector under the
Minister of Transport and Communications; the tourism Sector under the
Minister of State for Special Affairs. The Banking Sector is coordinated by
a Savings and Investment Council under the Minister of Finance, Planning and
National Economy. There are other public corporations and/or corporate
bodies which do not specifically below to one or other of the foregoing
classification such as the Rahad Corporation under the Ministry of Irriga-
tion and Hydro-Electrical Power and the Construction and Building Corpora-
tion under the Minister of State for Construction and Public Works.
Legal Status
4.        Each corporation is established by special law which provides for
its independent legal entity, sets up its organizational structure and
management scheme within which it functions, and stipulates its objectives,
rights, duties and responsibilities. The law under which a corporation is
established also shows the relationship of the corporation with other author-
ities and agencies of Government. A significant feature of such relationship
provided for in all laws is that the respective Minister, in some cases with
the consent of the Council of Ministers after having consulted the Board of
the corporation, may from time to time give the Board directions of general
character in accordance with the general policy of the Governmenbt which the
Board is supposed to carry out.   The law which applies to establishing and
operating the Public Sector Corporation is "The Public Corporation Act 1976".



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 3
Ccnditions and Terms of Service
5.        The basic conditions of service which are applied to the employees
of public sector corporations are similar to those applied to the Civil
Service.  But the salary and wage structures are more favorable, particularly
for corporations which operate predominantly on commercial principles. In
addition to salaries, and which can differ slightly between various corpora-
tions, further incentives, such as bonuses, housing, furniture, paid utili-
ties, paid trips from the field to the capital, etc., can be approved for the
employees. The basis for its implementation in each of the corpo-
rations is the classification of positions, job description, and periodical
evaluation of the operations of the corporations.
Establishment of the Proposed Western Savannah Development Corporation
6.        The Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) which is proposed
under the Savannah Development Project (Project) would be similar in concept
to that of the public corporations (enterprises). It would have to follow all
the steps required which apply to the establishment of public corporations.
Considering the complexity of the work to be done under the proposed Project
and the difficulties the staff will encounter in implementing the Project, the
more favorable salary structure which is presently used for commercial type
corporations should be applied for the WSDC. In the case of the proposed
Project it would be difficult to specify the character of the WSDC as it would
be a mix, with various degrees of emphasis, of the work which is presently
done by Service and Public Utility corporations and by Corporations which
operate predominately on commercial principles. However, some important
features (i.e., education, training, and the process in gaining confidence of
people to participate in specific and innovative development actions) would
add to the work of the staff of the WSDC a complex, delicate and difficult
task. To achieve this objective, a special inducement would be needed and
justified to motivate the staff of the WSDC, working in unusually strenuous
conditions, to achieve the set goals.
Steps in Establishing Public Corporations 1/
7.        The procedures for establishing public corporations are:
(a) Appointment of the manager (designee) by the Ministry
where the corporation functionally belongs. In the case
of the WSDC for the Savannah Development Project the
manager (designee) would have to be appointed by the
Minister of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources.
(b) Preparation of materials required by Law (para 4) such as:
1/   This procedure would apply also for the WSDC.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 4
(i) description of the objectives of the corporation;
(ii) proposal of type of corporation (service/public
utility or commercial); and
(iii) presentation of proposed salary and wage structure.
(c) Submission to the relevant Ministry; 1/
(d) Recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and
Natural Resources to the Minister of Public Service and
Administrative Reform to accept or modify the corpora-
tion's (WSDC's) proposed salaries and wage structure. At
the same time the detailed job description for classified
staff (officials) for the proposed corporation (WSDC) has
to be prepared. When agreement has been reached between
the Ministers of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources,
and Public Service and Administrative Reform about the
type of corporation and its wages and salaries structure,
the whole package has to be submitted for final approval
to the Central Bureau for the Administration of the Corpo-
rations, which is a department set up in the Ministry of
Public Service and Administrative Reform. Its objective
is to coordinate the activities of the different corpora-
tions from the administrative point of view, and its
functions also include the coordination of the terms of
service for the employees of various corporations by
preparing general principles and standards for the clas-
sification and evaluation of positions and jobs, coordina-
tion of training programs and inspection of the applica-
tion of the standards and regulations regarding personnel
in the corporations.
April 11, 1977
1/   The WSDC would have to submit its proposal to the Minister of
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Key Project Staff
1.        The Western Savannah Development Corporation which would manage and
implement both the IDA project in the Eastern District and the ODM/Abu Dhabi
project in the Southern District would include 17 key positions for which
international recruitement would be required should qualified Sudanese
nationals not be available. Out of these 17 positions, eight would be
required and financed under the proposed Project. These are:
Total
No.      Position                                 (Man Year)
1       Head of Livestock Division                    5
1       Head of Range Management Division             5
1       Range Management Instructor                   5
I       Senior Cartographer                           5
I       Senior Agronomist                             5
1       Weed Specialist                               4
1       Agricultural Economist                        5
1       Sociologist                                   5
8                                                    39
2.        A brief description of the qualification and duties of the eight
professionals required under the Project is given below:
A.   Head of Livestock Division
(i) This post would be filled with a veterinarian with con-
siderable field experience in working with pastoralists



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 2
and holding post graduate training in tropical livestock
health and production. It is essential that the candidate
has a proven capacity for gaining the confidence of the
pastoralists and ability as a team leader.
(ii)  Apart from supervising the research program and the
veterinary services, his major responsibility would be as
leader of the Data Gathering Team. He would be responsible
for maintaining a constant dialogue with the pastoralists
on all relevant aspects of Project activities. He would
also teach at the Young Stockmen's Course.
(iii) He would also be responsible for guiding management and
training Sudanese key personnel and preparing for replacement.
(iv)  The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or extended
as the need arises.
B.   Head of Range Management Division
(i)  This post would be filled with a candidate holding post
graduate training in Range Management; particular emphasis
would be on his practical field experience with traditional
livestock producers in the area and his ability to gain
their confidence.
(ii)  He would be a member of the Data Gathering Team and his
main responsibility would be the establishment of the
Range Management Master Plan, and through continuous
contact with the pastoralists to enhance their acceptance
of innovations. He would supervise research and experi-
mentation and teach at the Young Stockmen's Course (Annex
7).
(iii) He would also be responsible for guiding management and
training Sudanese key personnel and preparing for replacement.
(iv)  The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or extended
as the need arises.
C.   Range Management Instructor
(i)  This post would be filled with a Range Specialist with a
minimum of 10 years experience including training of field
staff. He would be a generalist in his field, and emphasis
should be put on practical field experience.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 3
(ii)  He would be responsible for the establishment of the 12
months course with the cooperation of officers from the
Range Division and utilizing short-term consultants.
(iii) During the Project (first phase of Development Program)
he would select and train national instructures with the
aim that the course would continue during a Second Phase
Project without his services.
(iv)  He would also be responsible for guiding management and
training Sudanese key personnel and preparing for
replacement.
(v)  The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or extended
as the need arises.
D.   Senior Cartographer
(i)  This post be filled with a cartographer holding a College
or University degree with specialization in photogrammetry
or cartography, and with a minimum of three years' work
experience including mapping, and applications of photo-
grammetry to mapping.
(ii)  The candidate would be responsible for and maintain
quality control of aerial photo surveys and photo mosaic
construction, would direct the compilation and production
of maps of Baggara Land System and northern rainy season
Qoz area, and would direct land demarcation mapping and
other mapping as required.
(iii) He would also be responsible for guiding management and
training Sudanese key personnel and preparing for
replacement.
(iv)  The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or extended
as the need arises.
E.   Senior Agronomist
(i)  This post would be filled with an agronomist with a mini-
mum of a university degree in agriculture or equivalent
and five years experience in dryland tropical agronomy.
(ii)  The candidate would be in charge of the Crop Experimental
Section at Ghazala Gawazat and would be responsible for:
(a)  preparing a crop research program for Eastern
and Southern districts of South Dafur in con-
sultation with specialist members of the re-
search team and the Deputy Director General at
Ghazala Gawazat;



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 4
(b) supervision of all crop research work in Eastern
and Southern districts;
(c) a program of research aimed at developing more
productive farming systems; and
(d) training local staff.
(iii)  He would also be responsible for guiding management and
training Sudanese key personnel and preparing for
replacement.
(iv)  The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or extended
as the need arises.
F.   Weed Specialist
(i)  This post would be filled with a weed specialist with a
minimum of a university degree in agricultural botany or
equivalent and five years experience in weed control
research.
(ii)  The candidate would evaluate the importance of crop needs,
and formulate and carry out a program of weed research
designed to provide better weed control methods for small-
scale farmers. Emphasis would be placed on control of
buda (Striga hermonthica). He would also investigate
the possibility of using low cost herbicides with simple
applicators.
(iii)  He would also be responsible for guiding management and
training Sudanese key personnel and preparing for
replacement.
(iv)  The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or extended as
the need arises.
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation Specialists
Two specialists (one agricultural economist and one sociologist)
would be located at the Ministry of Agriculture to perform functions related
to the two projects. They would advise on and assist in setting up a Moni-
toring and Evaluation Unit (Unit), as well as in the training of the Unit's
staff and the conduct of its day-to-day activities. Specifically, their
duties would include advising the Unit in performing the following functions:
(i) developing procedures for monitoring and evaluation;



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 5
(ii) using data and other information supplied by the Western
Savannah Development Corporation, conducting field analyses,
assessing the performance of the projects and determining
their rate of acceptance;
(iii) elaborating whatever modifications that might be indicated
by the performance of the settlements and livestock
developing for achieving their objectives and improving
their operational effectiveness;
(iv) training staff of the Unit in monitoring and evaluaCion
procedures; and
(v) assisting Government institutions and other consultants in
preparing a Second Phase Project.
(a) Agricultural Economist
(i) This post would be filled with a person holding a
Masters degree in Agricultural Economics or the equiv-
alent and at least 5 years experience in the implemen-
tation of settlement and livestock projects in Africa.
The Agricultural Economist would have a combined advis-
ory and administrative role and would be in charge of
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture.
(ii) The Agricultural Economist would in particular.
(a) plan and supenrise the unit's activities;
(b) develop procedures for monitoring and evalua-
tion in association with the Sociologist;
(c) train staff of the Unit in monitoring and eval-
uation procedures;
(d) cooperate with other consultants, engaged by the
Unit for special purposes and evaluate their in-
formations;
(e) participate in and prepare summaries of the eco-
nomic evaluation of the Project and the ODM/Abu
Dhabi financed project including the timing of
implementation;
(f) compare cost/benefit analysis with the projec-
tions;



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 6
(g) evaluate the financial aspects of the two proj-
ects separately;
(h) test and measure the budgets of the participants
against targets and expectations made during
appraisal;
(i) comment and analyze organizational, administrative
and managerial aspects of the two projects; and
(j) form judgments and do essential detail work on
data and information obtained.
(iii) He would also be responsible for guiding management
and training Sudanese key personnel and preparing for
replacement.
(iv) The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or
extended as the need arises.
(b)  Sociologist
(i) This post would be filled with a person holding minimum a
Masters degree in Social Anthropology with special emphasis
on nomadic societies with at least 5 years experience in
the implementation of settlement and livestock projects in
Africa.
(ii) The Sociologist would in particular:
(a) help in designing the procedures and the strategy
by which Project management will explain the
Project's concept and objective to the area
population, and by which it will implement the
Project so as to gain local cooperation and
minimize cultural resistance;
(b) identify and include the traditional tribal
organization, authority structures and power
networks in Project implementation and provide
advice to Project management on what appropriate
action should be taken;
(c) develop procedures for assessing and monitoring
the sociological response of various groups in
the area to different Project components and
feed back the information to WSDC; special atten-
tion should be paid to potential friction be-
tween the cattle owning and the farming groups.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 2
Page 7
(d) study the resettlement needs and recommend the
social criteria for grouping the resettled pop-
ulation in viable communities, by taking into
account tribal or kinship affinities and the
customary land rights patterns; the Sociolo-
gist's efforts should be generally geared toward
finding ways to facilitate the social change
promoted by the Project and to minimize social
and economic disruption (Annexes 4 and 6);
(e) design the research procedures and tools required
for the collection of the sociological information
for monitoring Project implementation and for on-
going evaluation of its sociocultural and economic
impact, and train staff of the unit in monitoring
and evaluation procedures; and
(iii) He would also be responsible for guiding management and training
Sudanese key personnel, and preparing for replacement.
(iv) The above listed functions may be adjusted and/or extended as
the need arises.



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE WESTERN SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
EJAIT         -    -E                                                                                                                                                 -
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     ..  ITTTr ET
IT                                                                                                      I   . I
FINANCE DiVeSION     VGSrON   D VGS ON   IViSION                                D1VSSSON                                             SV SfON                   UN I                       DEVeSON                            DIVISION                 CENARDAD AD DANAGEMEN
AI            SADATAI                        'EC                                                                          ..AGEjal                                               MIST ll  _ l D   TAN  _                       A
[                                                                                                                                                                                                           t  +   C C   N   t    ;NtN  ;;  + ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T a s, g A D ra g   e aQ A T   F I   e el p e t  y A N   T A A h
Y6a  S        . .o 2.00  h-Fpen ol E  ae                                                                    er                                                                                                                                                                          .w   o   ls            A 
), D-I.p-ll            S) .1,6W   h.



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
MINISTER
OF AGRICULTURE, FOOD AND
NATURAL RESOURCES                 Ml
ASSOCIATED DEVELOPMENT CORPORATIONS
MINISTER OF STATE                                           ANIMAL
AGRICULTURAL                   GZARDA                   PRODUCTION
RESEARCH AND SERVICE
MINISTER OF STATE  1             RAHAD                   'RURAL WATER
PLANNING AND                  RAHI
PLANNING AND   CORPORATION             CORPORATION
DEVELOPMENT                      _
MINISTER OF STATE  f 'AGRICULTURAL1               'MECHANICAL
PPODUCTION                  RESEARCH                     FARMING
CORPORATION    j           CORPORATION
I  AGRICULTURAL 2/
PRODUCTION     i
CORPORATION
UNDER SECRETARY            UNDER SECRETARY             UNDER SECRETARY  |          UNDER SECRETARY
FOR                 FOR AGRICULTURAL                   FOR                   FOR PLANNING AND
|NATURAL RESOURCES               SERVICES                ANIMAL RESOURCES         |ADMI1NISTRATION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETA VETE    I   
FORESTRY               'CROP PROTECTION             CENTRAL VETERI-             PLANNING ADMI-
0   __     l                                L~~~~~~~~      ~      ~    ~~~~~ABRTRY  N ISTRATION
LABORATOR
I-AGRICULTURAL
| RANGE AND PASTURE      I  'HORTICULTURE                QUARANTINE                   ENGINEERING
I        -RANGE AND iASTUREj                             _i  ill   jII                  DEPARTMENT
'SOIL CONSERVATION]                                            _
LAND USE AND               SOIL SURVEY               'STOCK ROUTES                    FOOD
WVATER PROGRAMMING |      I                   i                           i
AWILDLIFE                  *EXTENSION             'ANIMAL PRODUCTION |       r    FINANCE AND
L  GAME     !      I        1                            5                  L ADMINISTRATION
SEED PROPAGATION          LIVESTOCK RESEARCH         i PUBLIC RELATIONS
'FIELD INSE' AN IMAL HEALTHFOEGAFIR
| rFIELD INSPECTORATE |  j   FIELD SERVICES     |  FOREIGN AFFAIRS
1 P'esently only dealing wvith crops                        EPIZOOTICS
2' Khasm el Girba; Tokar; White Nile;
Blue Nile Pump Schemes, etc.                                 gL    -
Departments and/or Corporations represented in South Darfur Province
[ DISEASE FREE ]
ZONE                       World Bank-16490



ANNEX 16
Page   1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop and Livestock Marketing
I. Crop Marketing in the Project Area
General
1.        All produce sold in the Project area is handled exclusively by
the private sector, and considering the constraints and difficulties involved,
the system operates efficiently. Government intervention is limited to con-
trol of the larger local markets to assist them with the collection of taxes
and to the setting of floor prices (minimum buying prices) 1/ for groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. Government has established marketing companies
(Sudan Oil Seeds Company, Gum Arabic Company, etc.) to help maintain these
prices through the direct purchase of the crops at the line of rail. Except
for the larger towns of Nyala and Ed Da'ein, all other villages of reasonable
size have a market day once a week where produce is brought in by donkey,
camel, horse and cart, etc. In the harvest season when larger amounts of
produce are being assembled, market sales days are extended to two or three
days per week.
2.        It is primarily through an extensive network of informal financial
and personal relationships that crop (and livestock) marketing in the Sudan
is organized. Services vital to the operation of the system - including
credit, market information, insurance and transport - which in all developed
and in many developing countries are provided by Government, are provided here
by this privately organized informal infrastructure. The system (which
operates reasonably well) is one with a long tradition and is operated by the
group known as the jellaba, who have traded in the west for centuries. In the
towns and villages of the west they form a close-knit group who survive
principally by trade in crops, livestock and imported manufactured goods. As
a closed group with family and friendship links extending throughout the
country, it is inevitable that personal and financial relationships go together;
wherever possible, business is conducted with a friend or relation. These
1/   Each season the Ministry of Commerce and Supply in conjunction with the
Ministry of Finance establishes minimum buying prices for groundnuts,
sesame and gum at main buying centers. The prices are set by a committee
which examines world market prices and trends and takes into account
development policy, company overheads and export and development taxes.
Anticipated export prices are thus converted into an average ungraded
buying price at Port Sudan; this is translated into minimum buying prices
at main markets by deducting transport and handling charges and an
allowance for merchant profit.



ANNEX 16
Page   2
relationships control access to informal credit, initial working capital
and the opportunity to progress in the trade. It has ensured that the most
lucrative sectors of trade (which does not cover small retailing) have
remained in the hands of the jellaba for generations. Consequently, the
creation and maintenance of a network of obligations among people stra-
tegically placed in the economy is essential for any merchant.
3.        The marketing system which has emerged in response to these in-
frastructural and supply pattern constraints is one which is efficient,
flexible, but labor intensive. The large amount of labor used in market-
ing for example, is a direct response to the low density of supply. This
requires a large number of primary collectors of produce (middlemen or
agents) to bulk supplies for the main wholesalers. This system is effective
in so far as the collectors operate parallel (and competing) rather than
chain supply functions. The amount of labor involved is also a response to
the limited sources of income, the low opportunity cost of labor in the dry
season, and the ease of entry into trading once a small amount of working
capital has been acquired. Much of the flexibility of the system arises
directly out of the extensive use of labor and substantially fixed marketing
costs; the number and location of small buyers and agents change each year in
response to the size of the harvest and the main areas of production. The
major marketing costs involved, transport and the commissions paid to agents,
however are variable costs.
Major Crops (Table 1)
4.        Millet.  Millet is the most important staple crop grown in the
Project area. The crop is grown on some two-thirds of the total cultivated
area. 1/ However, during unfavorable crop seasons grain must be imported
into the area; this has been necesssary in three of the last seven years.
Most villages have flour mills for the processing of millet. In Nyala,
eleven mills treat about 8 tons of seed per day. Some 35 cooperative mill-
ing societies are now operating in the area with varying success.
5.        Groundnuts.  Groundnuts are the principal cash crop in the Project
area (Table 2); the crop is grown on somewhat less than one-third of the total
cultivated area, with about 90% of the harvest being traded on the wholesale
markets. Some 60-80% of total production is exported as kernels to Port
Sudan; the rest is crushed for oil which is used for local consumption or
exported unofficially to countries in the West. The groundnut cake resulting
from this processing is mostly sent for export through Port Sudan. It is
estimated that about 25% of the country's total production of groundnuts come
from South Darfur Province.
1/   Total cultivated area is estimated to range between 200,000 and 350,000 ha.
Source: Hunting Technical Services and the Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX 16
Page   3
6.        Despite an approximately 40% rise in the average farmgate price of
groundnuts between 1970/71 and 1974/75, there seems to be a slow decline in
the quantity of nuts exported from the area (Table 2). This would suggest
that farmers have concentrated on their staple crops of millet and sorghum as
a result of three very dry years since 1968/69, regardless of the increase in
the area under cultivation.
7.        Locally produced groundnuts are decorticated at 6 small processing
plants in Nyala, 8 in Ed Da'ein, and one each in Abu el Humer and Adila.
After decortication, groundnuts are sorted and the low and broken grade nuts
are crushed in the local oil mills. These mills, with a capacity of 2-3 tons
of groundnuts per day, have steadily increased their operations since the
Government took control of exports in 1969. The oil seed cake produced at
these mills is not subjected to export controls; over 90% of it is sent by
train to Port Sudan for further crushing and export to Europe. Recently the
Sudan Oil Seeds Company (SOSC) has invested in specialized grading equipment
which it installed at Port Sudan in an attempt to improve the quantity and
quality of handpicked selected nuts (HPS) to be exported (Annex 10). This
grade of groundnuts is presently around 10% of total exports. It is expected
that this new grading equipment might raise it gradually to about 20%. The
incremental groundnut production of about 50,000 tons (year 30) or about 5%
of the present production in the country would find a ready market.
8.        Gum Arabic is the second principal cash crop in the area.  The gum
harvest fluctuates generally in an inverse relationship with groundnut pro-
duction. In years when groundnut yields are high, gum arabic sales are lower
than normal; when groundnuts yields are low (usually in the dry years) there
is a corresponding increase in total gum production. This relationship can
be attributed to the fact that collecting gum often requires walking long
distances in areas where water is scarce. Once a farmer sees that his cash
requirements for the following year are covered by the groundnut harvest, he
has little incentive to go and seek additional income from the gum arabic
harvest. Between 1970 and 1974 gum arabic export prices rose by 300%, but
quantities exported decreased by about 60% due to organizational weaknesses
in the Gum Arabic Company and to oscillations in demand. Presently the Port
Sudan f.o.b. price is US$1,300 or about 50% lower than in 1974/75, which is
reflected in the farmgate price.
9.        Gum Arabic is normally cleaned and graded after being purchased
by the local traders. It is then sent by train to Port Sudan where further
impurities may be graded out by the Gum Arabic Company (GAC) before shipment.
Over the last two seasons a proportion of the exported gum has been subjected
to a spray drying process at the milk factory at Babanusa and the GAC is hope-
ful that the process can be expanded to treat a more significant proportion
of the harvest. Sudan supplies about 70% of the world market for natural
gum arabic, most of which goes unprocessed to Europe and North America. The
country's exports have declined from a peak of 50,000 tons in 1968 to some
20,000 tons in 1974 (Table 2). A lower quality product known as talh is
taken from the tree Acacia seyal; production averages about 3,000 tons per
annum, and this is exported exclusively to India. Total gum production of



ANNEX 16
Page   4
South Darfur is approximately 20-25% of the country's output.  The incre-
.cnntal gum arabic production of about 3,400 tons per annum (year 22) would
represent about 10% of the 1971-75 five-year average annually exported quantity
from the Sudan, but only 0.2% of the total world trade of gums both natural
and synthetic (Annex 10, para. 2).  It is difficult to assess future demand
for gum arabic on the major world markets. Periodic shortages along with
hi'gher prices have caused major users of gum arabic to look for substitute
materials rather than alternative sources of supply. The Sudan, however,
occupies a privileged position, as its gum is of the best quality available
and demand outstrips supply. Due to the relatively small incremental production
irnvolved, it is almost certain that the Project related incremental production
would always find a ready market.
Marketing Constraints
10.       The present floor pricing mechanism of the SOSC has only been in
operation for two years, during which time it has been subjected to a great
amount of pressure from the merchants (para 1), Presently, the SOSC has
representatives buying only from along the railway line, where at times they
have difficulty in supporting the guaranteed price because of lack of funds.
However, it is away from the rail that is the major concern. There the
farmers come into contact only with middlemen, and often they are forced to
take a lower price than the one to which they are theoretically entitled. The
same problems arise with gum arabic prices; the Gum Arabic Company (GAC) ap-
points agents on a commission basis and cannot compel them to attend markets.
Merchants and middlemen dominate all markets; in most cases they have the
confidence of the producers and the family and tribal relationship which are
of importance (Annex 4).
11.       Exportable farm commodities from the Project area have to be sent
to Khartoum (a distance of 1,300 km) or to Port Sudan (2,100 km). The mar-
keting costs in shipping produce over these great distances are high. While
it is estimated that a farmer living near Nyala receives only about iSd 35
(US$88) per ton of groundnuts, the total expense involved in shipping the
nuts to Port Sudan would be about LSd 100 (US$250) per ton (Annex 20). This
is due in part to the fact that local transport is difficult to hire and is
extremely expensive - especially for the small producer with only a few sacks
to market (Table 3). 1/  Most of the available trucks are owned by merchants
who concentrate on moving their own purchases. Rail transportation is very
unreliable; until recently, produce stored at depots would not have been
shipped by the time of the next harvest, causing merchants to be reluctant to
pay reasonable prices when they have not yet been able to sell the previous
season's crop. Storage facilities of any size are only available in Nyala.
Often merchants move stocks from Ed Da'ein to Nyala for storage and easier
access to rail vans. Communication within the area is poor, as only Nyala
is connected to a few villages along the railway line by phone, and all com-
munication to Khartoum are very poor.
1/   To transport 1 ton of groundnuts 60 km - the average distance from the
farm to Nyala or Ed Da'ein - costs about IYSd 6 (or US$15).



ANNEX 16
Page   5
Future Marketing Development
12.       The primary aim of crop market development for South Darfur should
be to improve the existing system and to examine the possibilities of giving
the farmers a larger share of the final price received (by traders and/or
exporters) for his surplus crops. For those commodities for which a minimum
floor price is set, either costs would have to be reduced within the floor
price mechanism or the price of the marketed product increased. Subsidies
would only be a short-term solution, and would eventually become a large
national burden. Costs could be reduced by improving and expanding the
infrastructural facilities needed to market the various crops; in particular,
better storage and handling facilities should be considered.
13.       Two specific steps should be taken to help ensure the more efficient
functioning of the crop marketing system.
(a) necessary changes should be made to improve the function-
ing of the floor price mechanism and to apply it gradually
to all farmers, and not only to those farmers living along
the railway line; and
(b) the possibilities of providing short-term credit 1/ to
farmers and combining it with the provision of inputs
to increase production should be examined.
A guaranteed export price and consequently the floor price (farm gate) should
be set before the season starts, and the Government should intervene by pro-
viding sufficient short-term funds through the existing commercial banks so
that the SOSC and the GAC could, in an emergency situation, provide adequate
transport for moving of groundnuts from the area.
Project Marketing Activities
14.       An important function of the Project would be to help improve crop
marketing in the Project area. However, solutions should be found within the
existing marketing framework in order to take full advantage of the valuable
services rendered by the existing merchant network. Any attempt to replace it
by some centralized system would be unrealistic and probably counter-productive.
A Marketing Division (MD) would be established within the Western Savannah
Development Corporation (WSDC). 2/ The Head of the Division would be a Senior
Accountant whose main responsibility would be to devise and supervise work
programs for the Division. To assist him, an expatriate consultant with
experience in the marketing of primary products in developing countries would
be employed for 3 months ech year. Specific responsibility for crop marketing
1/   Relief-type short term credit to replace "sheil" without elements to
increase production would be too risky and should not be considered.
2/   The WSDC would also be responsible for the development of livestock
marketing.



ANNEX 16
Page   6
in the MD would be given to the Crop Marketing Supervisors stationed in field
units at Nyala and Ed Da'ein; these supervisors would also be responsible for
the Pilot Bonded Storage Area Scheme (BSA). They would check the grading and
weighing of produce and would assist staff of the Land Management Division
with an education program in the new settlements. The MD staff would have to
rely to a large extent on four-wheel pick-up type vehicles to move around
continually in the field.
Project Pilot Program
15.       In order to help alleviate one serious marketing constraint in the
Project area, WSDC would act as a special agent for the SOSC in setting up 7
BSA's in several of the proposed new settlements; the settlements in which the
BSA's would be constructed would be selected by the WSDC in consultation with
the provincial authorities and the SOSC. The farmers would be encouraged to
bring their sacks of groundnuts and gum arabic to the BSA where they would be
inspected, weighted and payment made by a member of the staff of the WSDC's
Marketing Division. Each BSA would contain space for approximately 500-1,000
tons of produce. These BSA's would consist of no more than a weigh balance, a
locally made fence, and possibly a concrete base or plinth for storage. The
Marketing Division (MD) would operate a small revolving fund provided by the
ABS or other commercial banks to purchase crops coming to the BSA and would
pay a proportion (perhaps 20 percent) of the local minimum price upon delivery.
The crops in the BSA would be sold by auction to merchants or agents as at
other markets, and the difference between the realized price (less a nominal
charge for storage) and the advance would be paid to the producer. This
system would serve not only to test whether the bargaining strength of the
merchants early in the season could be reduced but would also enable a
better utilization of available transport for moving crops throughout the dry
season. Since the crops would be bulked at the BSA's, the process of purchase
and transport to the railway could be spread more evenly over a longer period
than at present. This system would have to be tested on a small pilot scale
to discover whether the informal relationships between producers and small
merchants, which might include services such as provision of credit, are so
strong that a marketing system which does not involve pre-harvest credit from
local commercial banks could not operate. Small huts would be built at each BSA
for overnight accommodation. Each field unit would be equipped with a set
of mobile weighing scales so that they could be in continual use. Temporary
labor wold be used wherever possible in the field, as it is not expected that
the BSA's would be open for much more than six months of the year. The re-
sults of this pilot operation would be cosely monitored and evaluated; if
successful, the concept could be expanded to other settlement areas.
II. Livestock Marketing within the Project Area
General
16.       Livestock production is entirely in the hands of private merchants.
The most notable feature of this trade is the difficulty involved in making



ANNEX 16
Page   7
contact with the scattered producers who are constantly on the move, and the
collection of adequate numbers of cattle, sheep and goats from a large area.
Livestock traded at the small towns and villages are bought for local consump-
tion and for assembly for trekking to the main markets of Omdourman, Nyala,
El Obeid and Medani which serve the urban centers. The large markets have
an elaborate system of trading, ranging from tribal or village merchants to
the cattle wholesalers. There are four distinct levels of cattle dealers:
(a) the Debabi or selling agent who works in one market on a small scale,
receiving credit from a larger merchant; (b) the Gelaji, the independent,
small-scale trader who buys in small lots, collects a herd and trades it in
the urban centers; (c) the tribal merchant who as agent for the tribe sells
a portion of the herd to local dealers; and (d) the Tagir Mwashi who is a
large-scale merchant and who controls the export trade. Supplementing the
marketing system are trading agents or Samsors who may represent either
sellers or buyers in negotiating the price for cattle. Much of the capital
which finances this operation is concentrated in Omdourman from where a small
number of large merchants handle about 50% of the total trade. Consequently,
many of the buyers of livestock in the producing area are agents of these
Omdourman merchants or middlemen who will ultimately sell them. The mer-
chants issue precise instructions to their agents and are in continual com-
munication with them. Less than 50% of transactions are made in official
markets.
17.       Meat marketing in the whole country is in the hands of the small
butchers who obtain their supplies directly from a trader who slaughters one
or two animals, or in the large markets from specialist wholesalers. Meat
prices are officially controlled and have remained constant for the last two
years. Market prices, however, are higher than the controlled prices. Per
capita consumption of meat (mostly beef) in the Sudan is estimated to be
about 19 kg or 290,000 m tons 1/; comparative figures in other African coun-
tries are: Ethiopia 16 kg, Kenya 14 kg, Malagasy Republic 19 kg, Somalia
20 kg, Tanzania 13 kg (Source FAO - Production Yearbook 1973). Consumption
is expected to rise by about 2.5 to 3% annually, indicating an expected
overall demand of about 410,000 metric tons by 1990.
18.       The main herds of cattle reach the buying centers in the west be-
tween July and October and during the subsequent two months move along the
stockroutes. Moving at this time they generally gain in condition. The
stockroutes cover a wide belt as herds range for grazing en route. Depend-
ing on the starting points in the area, herds take 40-60 days to reach the
Omdourman/Khartoum/Gezira area. The majority of animals arrive there
between August and February when prices consequently are low. Some are held
and finished on concentrates in the vicinity of Khartoum prior to sale or in
quarantine for export. Between February and August, prices are higher and
animals, especially sheep, are moved by rail and held for fattening. The
increasing urban population is a key determinant in the steadily increasing
demand for meat, particularly mutton, and the seasonal variations in supply
are reflected in sharp price changes. Total marketed offtake in the area is
presently estimated at 60,000 cattle, 80,000 sheep and 30,000 goats.
1/   Source:  HTS.



ANNEX 16
Page   8
19.       Although the railroad extends to Nyala, nearly all cattle travel
from South Darfur on the hoof to the Omdourman/Khartoum/Gezira area, or a
distance of some 1,000 km or more. The producers have little confidence in
the railway system because of the difficulties which have arisen in the past,
including long periods spent by the stock enroute.
20.       The use of air transport for the export trade in meat has developed
greatly during the past years. Most of the transport of chilled meat has
been by charter aircraft. There is undoubtedly a need for a close examination
to be made of the feasibility and economies of transporting meat by air both
internally in the Sudan and from the Sudan to export markets.
Marketing in the Southern and Eastern District of South Darfur 1/
21.       There are 4 registered livestock markets in each of the 2 Districts
(Southern and Eastern), together with many smaller unregistered markets (21
in the Eastern District) which operate only part time. The major markets are
at Nyala, El Obeid and Ed Da'ein, while in recent years Abu Matariq, Furdos
and Gimelaya have become important selling centers, especially during the wet
season. Only Nyala and El Obeid have auction markets; these are for cattle
and sheep and are not fully utilized. Agents from Omdourman, Khartoum and
other parts of the east have to operate through local middlemen, who are in
close contact with the producers and who buy for them on a commission basis.
Another intermediary guarantees the ownership of the cattle in the auction
markets and is paid a commission by the producer of 2 percent on the sale
value of the animals. No scales are available at the markets, and private
sales are based on size, age and condition. No grading system is in use and
the producer commonly receives less than a fair share of the consumers' price.
22.       Over the years the number of cattle being sold through the Nyala
market has declined; except in 1973-74 when cattle sales temporarily increased
due to the dry summer in 1973. A regression analysis carried out by HTS
based on the last nine years' figures showed that this decline has been at a
rate of 2.2 percent per annum. Considering the increasing number of cattle
in the area, this decline indicates that many producers prefer to circumvent
established markets when selling cattle and deal privately with middlemen and
independent traders outside the markets. The cattle figures show that mature
males make up about 75 percent of total sales annually, and the balance is
made up of old cows and young animals in about equal proportions.  (Table 4)
Sheep and goat numbers over the years have remained stable expect in 1975/76
a significant increase over the previous years occured. This could have
resulted from the export ban that was placed on cattle, sheep, beef, and
mutton in December 1974 with the aim of stabilizing domestic meat prices; the
ban was not successful in achieving its primary purpose and was lifted in
October 1976. The result was a heavy demand for sheep throughout the country
as cattle were mostly held off the market in expectation that the ban would
1/   The areas covered by the Project and the ODM/Abu Dhabi project.



ANNEX 16
Page   9
be lifted. The corresponding figures for the Ed Da'ein market show that
cattle numbers have remained stable, and unlike the Nyala Market in 1973-74,
no large increase in the throughput of cattle resulted from the dry summer of
1973. This confirms the assumption that the Rizeiqat pastoralists are truly
nomadic and move over large distances, whereas many of the cattle that come to
the Nyala Market belong to people growing crops or are trade herds kept by
merchants in close proximity to supply the needs of the town. The rather
large fall-off in numbers of sheep being sold at Ed Da'ein from 1972/73
onwards is probably due to the fact that with the high prices being paid in
those years more animals were purchased directly from the producers who were
content with the prices offered.
23.       The seasonality of supply throughout the Province is very well
defined. Available data (HTS) show that the major sales in the area take
place in October. At the Nyala Market there is a definite peak in September
of each year; however, because of the necessity to supply the larger local
population and as the trade herds are held near to the agricultural areas,
sales are more evely spread throughout the year than is the case at Ed Da'ein.
24.       Cattle and sheep prices at Nyala and Ed Da'ein are shown in Table
5. These figures show a sharp rise in prices over the last five years, and
particularly in 1974/75. While cattle sell at better prices at Nyala, the
sheep prices at Ed Da'ein have been well in excess of the corresponding
prices at Nyala for each of the five years. This could be explained by the
fact that the majority of sheep sold at Nyala are for the local trade and
would not be as well conditioned as the ones intended to be transferred to
the east. The selection of these stronger sheep would be centered around
Ed Da'ein, where the costs of transport are cheaper. The difference in these
local prices and those received for the same type of animals at Omdourman
normally varies from between 40 to 50 percent, thus providing a large margin
for the merchants and traders involved in their purchase and resale. These
large variations in prices indicate that the producer is hardly receiving a
fair price for his animals, despite the inherent risks that are involved in
moving of stock over a distance of 1,000 to 1,200 kilometers.
Future Development of Livestock Marketing in South Darfur
25.       The present livestock marketing system operates efficiently and
should remain much as is in the future. However, one of the most pressing
needs is to change the rules and regulations governing the operation of the
existing marketing system and to make sure that once the rules are changed
they are enforced. New licencing laws for all merchants and middlemen should
be drawn up as soon as possible by the Livestock and Meat Marketing Commission
(LMMC), which has been recently established. Local Rural Councils should have
the responsibility of enforcing these new laws. The middlemen should be
obliged to pay fees every market day to operate and to enter the markets.
They should be required to renew their licences every six months. Unlicensed
operators should not be allowed in the livestock market area.



ANNEX 16
Page 10
26.       Regulations are required for the use of the holding areas adjacent
to livTestock markets. These areas should be enclosed in future by fences and
the Rural Council would be responsible for providing shade and water facili-
ties in them. Producers and merchants holding animals in these areas for more
than one day should be required to pay a fee for the use of the facilities.
27.       Many of the presently unlicensed markets throughout the Project
area should be operated as soon as practicable by staff of the Rural Councils.
At the present time these markets are being operated by local merchants who
are empowered to collect taxes (Annex 19). This situation is open to abuse
and it is necessary that the local authorities take over the operation of
these facilities. It is estimated that the salaries and expenses incurred
could be recouped from the additional taxes collected.
28.       A number of physical improvements to existing facilities are needed.
Few of the existing livestock markets are subdivided so that animals can be
segregated during sale. Segregation would allow buyers to evaluate the
animals more readily than if they were all in the one confined space, while
other buyers could concentrate on purchasing sheep. There are a number of
larger selling centers such as Abu Matariq, Gimelaya and Furdus which have no
-sales enclosures at all. To exercise efficient control over the running of
the sales and physical control of animals, enclosures are required. These
need not be elaborate structures, but simple circular or square yards divided
into four sections.
29.       Livestock Marketing Supervisors should be appointed for Nyala and
Ed Da'ein. 1/ These supervisors would work in close cooperation with the
LMMC, the body which would be responsible for establishing new rules and
regulations for the operation of all livestock markets. Their principal
task would be to help locate irregularities within the present marketing
system and, in conjunction with officers of the Rural Councils, to devise
constructive plans to overcome these problems. They should not become
involved with the actual implementation of laws and regulations, but they
would be responsible for the collection of marketing data in the area. With
the establishment of a radio relay station at Nyala, they could use Radio
Omdourman to make known continuously to the producers and the middlemen what
price changes and stock movements are taking place. They should provide a
news-sheet at the livestock markets for the use of rural officers, producers
and middlemen. They would be responsible for the monthly collection of
livestock markets and rail movement figures which would then be supplied
as quickly as possible to the LMMC.
30.       At a later date (after 5-6 years), the establishment of more modern
livestock selling and holding facilities at both Nyala and Ed Da'ein would be
necessary. This would tie in with the proposed introduction of the new live-
stock block train service to the east. 2/ These complexes would be composed
1/   These supervisors should cooperate closely with the WSDC (para. 14).
2/   This service would possibly be included in a proposed IDA Livestock
Marketing Project scheduled for FY 1978, or might alternatively be
included in a Second Phase Project of the Development Program.



ANNEX 16
Page  11
of four sections: (i) holding areas for the livestock markets; (ii) the
zariba itself; (iii) modern crush and race for veterinary use; and (iv) the
holding area and pens for the railway system. All these facilities should
be connected by a series of well constructed laneways so that animals can be
moved quickly between each area and segregated as far as possible. So as to
minimize the risk of spreading contagious diseases it would be expected that
these complexes would be well serviced by the veterinary department and that
on all sale days a veterinarian would be in attendance before the sale com-
menced so as to eliminate any diseased animals from the holding area and
zariba.
31.       The opening up of new trek routes throughout the area should
contribute towards the possibility of drawing up a defined seasonal sales
roster for the area. This would help to ensure that at a majority of sales
a maximum number of buyers would be on hand to create sufficient competition
to minimise the violent fluctuations in price that are now so common in the
industry.
32.       The grouping of animals in the farigs so as to sell in large
numbers in specific markets should be encouraged by the veterinary teams
supplying animal health and extension services to the nomads in cooperation
with the Livestock Marketing Supervisors. Their activities could also be
coordinated with purchasing officers for the Animal Production Public Cor-
poration (APPC). Mobile weighing scales could be brought to the farigs and
the relative groups of animals weighed and a price offered to the owners.
The distinct advantages of selling on a liveweight basis could be carefully
demonstrated to the owners under these conditions and could be responsible
for the quicker acceptance of this practice within the industry.
33.       The upgrading of slaughtering facilities throughout the area must
receive attention. At a later stage the establishment of a small abattoir
at Nyala could be considered. However, the actual timing of construction
and the priority on a national basis would be determined by a study carried
out by LMMC at a later stage. This abattoir would (if the supply of animals
was sufficient and if the transport costs were reasonable) be built to export
standards so that in future it may be possible to supply meat directly from
it to some of the Central African countries. It would also supply Nyala
and send meat to Khartoum in times of seasonal shortages.
34.       Other slaughtering facilities at Ed Da'ein and larger villages
should be enclosed and supplied with adequate water so that reasonable
hygiene standards can be met. Regulating the hygiene standards of the
local retail outlets is necessary.
35.       The timing and costing of these structural improvements has not
been included in the proposed Project as their implementation needs further
consideration. They could, to a limited scope, be financed directly by the
Rural Councils from revenue collected by animal sales taxes; however, the
whole concept as proposed could be financed separately under a National
Livestock Marketing Project if it would be found economically feasible and
technically justifiable.
April 11, 1977



ANNEX 16
Table I
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Total Crop Output
(ton)
Southern District 1/ Eastern District 2/
1.  Grain                          29,900                  60,000
2.  Groundnuts                      13,800                 24,900
3.  Sesame                             800                    700
4.  Water melon seed            no estimate                   300
5.  Kerkady                                                    15
6.  Lubia Beans                  "                             90
7.  Gum Arabic                      2,040                   2,700
8. Irrigated vegetables:
(a)  Tomatoes                     160                     -
(b)  Okra                         140                     -
(c)  Peppers                      100                     -
(d)  Onions                       200                     -
9. Rainfed vegetables 3/:
(a)  Tomatoes                     750              No estimate
(b)  Okra                         450               "  
(c)  Peppers                      450
10.  Mangoes                            375
11.  Citrus                             100
1/ ODM/Abu Dhabi Project Area - 1972/73 Crop Year
2/ South Darfur Project Area - 1974/75 Crop Year including the Eastern
District and parts of Kas and Buram Rural Councils adjacent to the area.
3/ Dried equivalent output.
Source: Hunting Technical Services and confirmed by the Ministry of Agriculture.
October 14, 1976.



ANNEX 16
Table 2
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Exports
(ton)
Groundnuts            Groundnut Cake            Gum Arabic                  Sesame
Year   S. Darfur  Sudan        S. Darfur   Sudan    S. Darfur   Sudan           S. Darfur   Sudan
1971   28,638 1/ 115,061 2   10,708 1!  24,888 V  12,043            41,971 2/  2,142 1/  84,442 2/
1972   16,420 .1/ 113,740 2/  10,416 -/  50,315 -/  9,318 -    40,758 -/  2,670 1'  85,197 2/
1973   n. a.      138,425 -   n. a.        31,622       n. a.       33,941 2   n. a.    101,863 2/
1974   n. a.       99,052 2/  n. a.        21,561       n. a.       19,987      n.a.       83,508 2/
1975   n. a.      204,960 2   n. a.        n. a.       n. a.        15,643      n. a.      56,624 2/
Source:
1/ Huntings Technical Services.
2/ Bank of Sudan
October 25, 1976



ANNEX 16
Table 3
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Principal Cash Crops - Eastern District Council
Average Farm Gate Price
(hSd/ton)
Crop         1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77
>roundnuts            24        29         35        51         64        63         34 1/
Gum Arabic            75        89        100       178        353       n.a.       194
*   9 months to March 1976.
1/ Reflects expected decrease of world market prices.
Source: Hunting Technical Services
Savanna Development Project Phase II
For 1976/77 - mission estimated projection.
For 1975/76 - estimated during appraisal.
Confirmed by the Ministry of Agriculture.
October 14, 1976.



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nyala and Ed Da'ein Market Supply Data
(Head of Animals)
Livestock            1969/70       1970/71      1971/72       1972/73       1973/74      1974/75       1975/76
Cattle
Nyala
Bulls                  19 572        22 360       19 868        12 687        18 905       16 412        18 510
Cows                    4 361         3 520        4 102         3 669         6 165         3 499        2 303
Calves                  2 532         4 354        5 259         4 093         4 809         1 990        3 314
Total Cattle           26 465        30 234       29 229        20 449        29 879       21 901        24 127
Ed Da'ein
Total Cattle            7 204         7 808         9 163        5 346         4 196         5 612        N.A.
Sheep
Nyala                     35 127        31 044        26 744       35 413        32 910        33 972       43 265
Ed Datein                  12 516       18 119        26 924       20 847         5 738.        5 859        N.A.
Goats
Nyala                       9 887       10 133        12 201        9 268        11 701        11 961       15 457
Ed Da'ein                   1 778        3 000         3 800        2 555         1 951         3 410        N.A.
Source:   Local Rural Council and Ministry of Agriculture - Veterinary Department Figure                                  F"
a    2
February 2, 1977



ANNEX 16
Table 5
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nyala and Ed Da'ein Markets Cattle and sheep Prides an6 Index 
1970/   to 1974775 (1,a per neaal
Livestock         1970/71   1971/72  1972/73 1973/74   1974/75
Cattle
Nyala
Average Cattle        13.59      20.15    22.09    21i70        38.25
Price
Price Index             100        148       163       160        281
As 7 Omdourman          49%        58%       56%       45i%       61%
Price
Ed Da'ein
Average Cattle        15.83      18.62    18.55    23.21        29.64
Price Index             100        118       117       147        187
As I, Omdourman         57%        53%       47%       49%        48%
Price
Nyala
Average Sheep          1.85       2.69      2.94      3.14       4.55
Price
Price Index             100        145       159        72        246
As 7. Omdourman         347        45%       43%       36%        33%
Price
Ed Da'ein
Average Sheep          3.78       4.01      4.60      4.31       5.23
Price
Price Index             100        106       122       114        138
As % Omdourman
Price                   69%        67%       68%       49%        38%
Source:  Local Rural Council and Ministry of Agricuilture - Veteri nary
Department Figure.
January 17, 1077



ANNEX 16
TOTAL CATTLE MARKETED AT FOUR PRINCIPAL MARKETS Graph
IN SOUTHQERN DARFUR EASTERN  AREA COUNCIL 1974-1975
A500-
4000-
, ~ ~~~~~~       ..   .   ..  ..
3000-
TTL
4000   . .  ..  .....
2000~~~~~~~~~1.. -.:::
:.- .... -..::.-
..........,.':..-'..-. '..
3000- :.   ...      .. :  .
Sore   Hutn  Tecnicl Servces
t~~~aan  Deeomn  Proec  Phase '1 'HT :--9-',,6' 
ci- -:  ...-- :..... -.'. :.   :- -
I   2000--:   :  .  -:-  ::: - ..::  
""     -- -''"-   '<     I '\
Vt    it3 :       :- \.:   :
IOCG,    - -- :\\
-- 'u ' 1  '   ---  :  -         -  ----   -- 
.  ........... ..1  i'  .\ 
c   t. -  it ts-      - -- - --  _            
|    <  -   t- - - -        _          -
J   A    S   0    N    D    J    F   M    A   M    J    J
1974                  -       1975
Source: Hunting Technical Services.
Savanna Development Project Phase II (HTS 1976)



ANNEX 17
Table I
SU31AN
SAVANAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Cultivator and Pastoralist
Estimated Household Budget 1/ 2/
(LSd)
Present          Situation        Situation farming/
Situation           without        ranching methods
Program           with Program
(year 30)           (year 30)
Cro Fa rmers
Gross Iucome from:
Crops                                    130              100                   3oo
Livestock                                 30               20                    30
Sub-total                           160              120                   330
Cost of Production 3/:
Crops                                     26                17                    80
Livestock                                   2                2                     2
Sub-total                            28               19                    82
Household Consumption
Expenditures 4/:
Millet                                     50               50                    50
Sugar                                      30               20                    40
Tea                                        10                5                    10
Oil                                         5                5                    10
Clothing                                   20               10                    40
Other 5/                                   10                5                    30
Sub-total                           125               95                   180
Household Cash Surplus                         7                 6                   68
Per Household Member
Cash Surplus                                 1                 1                   11
Equivalent US$                                  2,50             2,50                28
Pastoralists
Gro.s Income from:
Livestock Sales                           110               70                   290
Crop Production 6/                         50               40                    50
Sub-total                           160              110                   340
Cost of Production:
Livestock                                  10                8                    30
Crops                                       3                 3                    3
Sub-total                           13                11                    33
Household Consumption
Expenditures:
Millet                                    50                50                   50
Sugar                                     25               10                    30
Tea                                        5                 3                   10
Oil                                        5                 3                     a
Clothing                                  15               10                    30
Other 5/                                  10                3                    40
Sub-total                          110                79                  168
Household Cash Surplus                        39                -                  139
Per Household Member
Cash Surplue                                6                 -                   23
Cash Surplus Equivalent US$                   15                -                   53
Number of Cattle per Household               50                37                    84
Estimate: (US$)
(a) Gross Income of
- Farsers Family Member                 67               50                   150
- Pastoralist Family Member             67               46                   142
(b) GNP per capita in the
Sudan (1975)                        290                --                   __
(c) Household Consumption
Expenditures and Cash
Surplus per Family Member            56               42                   116
Pastoralist Family Member               61               33                   161
Poverty Level per capita                65
1/ Sie of both types of households 6 persons. Acreage of cultivator household
5.4 ha; number of cattle in pastoralist household about. 50 in the beginning.
2/ Estimates are based on mission's findings and Hunting TechnIcal Services Ltd.
studies and surveys.
3/ Excluding Family Labor.
4/ No empenditures for meat, milk, semn have been Included as no income from these
items has been estimated. It was assumed that these comrodities would be con-
sumed by the household and would not represent marketable surplus.
5/ ineludes charges for water.
6/ Millet produced for subsistence.
January 17, 1977



ANNEX 17
Table 2
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPEENT PROJECT
Budgets of Millet and Groundnut Crops
(Per ha)
Present Situation      Projected Situation
Physical               Units        Millet   Groundnuts    Millet   Groundnuts
(Year 30) (year 30)_
Outputs:  Commodity            -           grain    in shell       grain    in shell
Yield per ha        kg          400         900          1,085      1,210
Inputs:   Seed                 kg           15         100             15       100
Labor:
First weeding              Man/Day           8           8              8          8
Sowing                     Man/Day           8          14              8        14
Second weeding             Man/Day           8          17              8        17
Thin/resow                 Man/Day           5           5              5         5
Harvesz                    Man/Day           5          10             14         14
Thresh/wirutow/pick        Man/Day          10           7             27         9
Total labor                Man/Day          44         61              70        67
Financial
Ortputs:  Price            ESd per ton    35.0         35.0            35.0      35.0
Value            bSd             14.il       31.5           38.0       42.3
Inputs:   Seed             1Sd               U.)        3.5            0.5        3.5
Plant Protection        ESd              -           -              4.0        3 '
Sacks            =Sd              1.6         3.6            4.4       4.8
Tools            ,Sd              0.3         0.3            0.4       0.4
Total                      3Sd               2.4         7.4           9.3       11.7
Net Return                                  11.6       24.1           28.7       30.6
Net Return per Man/Day    ESd                0.3        0.             0.4        0.5
Labor Pequirements         Man/Day         44.0        61.0           70.0       67.0
(See Table 3)
February 2, 1977



A NNTEX 17
Table 3
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOP5EN PROJECT
Monthly and Total Farm Crop Labor Requirements 1/
(man-days)
June   July   Aug   Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec   Total
Present Situation
Millet 3.6 ha                 58     47       -      -     11    42      -    158
Groundnuts 1.8 ha             18     46      15      -      9    21      -    109
Gum Arabic 2/                  -      -       -      -     20      7    20      47
Totai                   76      93      15     -      40    70    20    314
Family Labor .1               68     56      56    56      70    80    80    466
Deficit                       (8)   (37)      -      -      -      -     -    (45)
Projected Situation
Millet 1.33 ha                21      17      -      -     16    24    15       93
Groundnuts 4.07 ha            40    106      33      -     37    56      -    272
Gum Arabic 2                   -      -       -     -      17      -     -      19
Tot-al                  61    123       33     -      70    80    15    382
Family Labor 3/               68     56      56    56      70    80    80    466
DefIicit                       -    (67)      -     -       -      -           (67)
1/  Computed from Cron Labor Requirements data presented in "Land Use Planning
Survey in Southern Darfur, Armex 4, Agriculture by Hunting Technical Services
Limited and Sir M. MacDonajd and Partners, March 1976. Eaclh man-day is taken
as six man-hours. A further 10-15 man-days per ha are spent during the dry
season on land preparation.
2/  Particularly on improved farms, most of the tapping has to take place after
the cold weather.
31  Fam'ly labor is computed as 2.6 labor units times average number of rainless
days per month.
February 2, 1977



ANNEX 17
Table 4
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Crop Farm Budgets
Present Situation       -- Projected Situation  (year 30)--
With Program        Without Program
Millet                    ha            3.6                    1.33                3.6
Groundnuts                ha            1.8                    4.07                1.8
Yield per ha
millet                    kg          400.0                1,085.0               242.0
Groundnuts in shell       kg          900.0                1,210.0               544.0
Production
Millet                    ton           1.44                   1.44                0.87
Groundnuts                ton           1.62                   4.92                0.98
Gum Arabic                ton           0.13                   0.44                0.20
Value
Millet                    bSd          50.4                   50.4                30.5
Grdundnut                IbSd          56.7                  172.2                34.3
Gum Arabic 1/             bSd          24.1                   81.4                36.2 2/
Total                     hSd         131.2                  304.0               101.0
Financial Inputs
Seed                      bSd           8.1                   15.0                 8.1
Plant Protection          hSd            -                    17.5                  -
Sacks                     ESd          12.2                   25.3                 6.0
Tools                     LSd           1.6                    2.2                 1.0
Paid Labor 3/             ISd           4.5 4/                20.1                 2.0
Total                     bSd          26.4                   80.1                17.1
Return per Farm           hSd         104.8                  223.9                83.9
US$        262.0                  560.0                210.0
Return per Person         US$          44.0                   93.0                35.0
1/  Based on production in the Baggara Land System (Annex 6 para 12).
2/  It is assumed that income from Gum Arabic would be 50% higher than at present
but only about 45% of the estimated if development takes place.
3/  iSd 013 per day which is the ongoing rural wage rate for.the type of work re-
.uired.  No legislated minimum rural wage rate exists in the Sudan.  No
opportunity cost of family labor has been calculated; it was assumed that
its marginal product would be zero considering the proposed output mix for
the farming system.
4i  It is assumed that farmers hire one-third of their labor requirements additional
to family labor.
January 17, 19/7



ANNEX 18
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow 1/
1.        Government would finance ISd 5.1 million (US$12.7 million) or 33%
of the total Project costs 2/. After the implementation period, Government
would have to cover annual operating costs on average over a period of 19
years of about iSd 0.6 million (US$1.5 million) in 1977 prices as well as the
debt service payments to IDA and SFD. As no fees are expected to be charged
for Project services, the Project units would have no direct income. Govern-
ment would, however, recoup some of the expenditures in a number of ways.
The most important of these would be through:
(a) import taxes and duties levied on Project inputs;
(b) income taxes levied on salaries paid to Project
staff;
(c) crop and livestock taxes; and
(d) revenues from water charges.
Over the estimated life of the Project (30 years), the following incremental
revenues would be generated.
hSd million
Import taxes and duties                     16.5
Crop and livestock taxes                    22.3
Income tax from staff salaries              10.9
Revenues from water charges in
Project area                               9.4 3/
Sub-total                             59.1
Revenues from water charges in
the whole Province                        26.1 4/
Total                                  85.2
1/   All figures in current US$.
2/   No estimate about Government's contribution in a Second Phase Project
has been made at this stage.
3/   30 wateryards.
4/   170 wateryards.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
These would over 30 years cover the Government's debt service payments to
IDA and SFD, operating, maintenance and replacement costs after Project
completion, its contribution to the Project for local salaries and import
taxes and duties. Within the projected thirty years, Government's net cash
flow would be negative year 18 and would remain positive until thereafter.
In year 30 the cash flow would be cumulatively positive and amount to 4Sd 7.9
million. In Government's cash flow projection, income generated from the
additional 170 wateryards located in the whole Province has been considered as
Project related, as costs for additional equipment needed for the reinforcing
of the maintenance capability, the improvement of the management, and organiza-
tion of the wateryards and the better collection for water usage has been
included in Project cost.
2.        However, in comparing the revenue earning power of the Project
with total expenditures, it has to be borne in mind that the expenditures
proposed for the Western Savannah Development Corporation (WSDC) are also
needed to modernize those parts of the local administration in the Province
involved in agricultural production so as to enable them to handle development
oriented programs. As it is expected that the WSDC would be gradually phased
out as an autonomous entity as its various functions are taken over by existing
local institutions, Government's cash flow should be treated also as a develop-
ment oriented expenditure to create and support a capable and efficient local
administration, rather than as an indication of inadequate revenues generated
by the Project.
3.        All revenues from taxes and duties have been estimated at existing
levels. Considering the difficulties in estimating the amount of property
taxes based on the number of animals owned by pastoralists, and given the
existing incidence of tax evasion, the expected revenue from various taxes has
been calculated cautiously. It has been assumed that crop taxes ("ashur")
would be collected at a rate of 70% for the first 15 years and 80% in years 16
to 30; presently their rate of collection is around 50%. Furthermore it was
assumed that water charges would be collected at about 80% in 30 Project
wateryards and at 50% in the remaining 170 wateryards in the Province, and
that 20% of the water pumped would be lost. In the Sudan the collection of
personal income taxes of employees and of the social security contribution
is efficient, as payroll deductions are made; therefore this amount has been
fully accounted for. Also, market fees from animals sold have been estimated
at the present level of collection (about 50%), based on all animals to be
sold under the Project. Although the estimated amount of taxes could be in-
creased through better tax collection and increased commercialization in the
Project area, such an increase was not allowed for in the Project calculations.
April 11, 1977



1  Z. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~'090    0O0oo,oo,,~    7
....   ..              ' .......V00!'09 
*!009000/0'"'0000 0009009'!00000'0  !'!0 OPOO!0%')000 !!0~~~000/000000000!!  ~             ~.*..... ...
9fl'!!!    0.0.9    0~09  oo00'90p.'.p00  0'0 00  0.OOoOoooooooooo'   !'o9.'ooooo! 'o/09'0o.....o ...!.00 .V.!..o..
/099.000 O.!/ooOoO   090909000.0  A0~o0!009!99009!0    0~'0   00000 tOO  000oo......     !o0.....0
...0.... ....,o..'o .....                                           090009........oo..o  99o00.0000.......00~o0
'/0 oo'ooooooo  Oo'o0oooooo.oo~o''o/    ooo... oo'0~o0o/oo'oooo~.. o0 ...                            0.0.....0000000!!~0000!P0~0 
~o~9~9.!..ooo.o  o90o09o '!'o,99ov'Oo.,o'o.900oo   0~o!o,o~    00000  oooo.'~0oo.io 0......  oo ..  ,/...0.. 009........ ~   0
... ......    .... .  ..... .. ... . .            00. 0!. P......
al)  1  .  ) 'W)   -0 0I 01                             ow               M,.   "O () W
0.0   OW                                     (111)  (Ill)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00''  00'!
F-1-11  Mr-  uff -1  T-7   T~,-T   -1 1  7117,1-11  57-17171  -l-    7-11- mr-,T157  Fz-l;;-.7   T.-, 71-1  T"/o4 ooo T                            T
'0000000000.-00070
T,-1-   M--   TI-F    WF TN.  M.-   TIT    TIT-  71-.   TI.-T  WN-1   , 1-1  Tz-1-1  Tc1-l  s 1-1-   r, -I    T -I  VIT    Tr,-   VW 0T,!-I0Tr-   -I,0'                "
000 00!      0000004 00 ~~.... ....
IZ 11  IN    l",  11   .11,   l"~0000                              00/0400'000  000'0
7-7  7 TfT    R    MT   ,r                         7      r     MT               "            -.1      09000000000 f000  000009 0!0l0!   P0000000!poO    ,'1    )o.   .00o0oooo,ooTo0
Ill"   IW~~~~~                      1W,   "I',00990-9090000000  !.09'0000    /   ~!0000'0000'0                                     900/'!0~/00~0!00:'0,                               ~/~~o0 o. .00I.o. .
C-    N7    fM              T~~~~- /'0090)/00'9/09!'''!0!"'  000;7            U   oooo09'Y~ 0'! 0-' 00            0 "0. P   00-  000000000090!9  0004'0                               P0!-0'P9T00
IT-,   TN-,  TIT-,  T,  1-    1-g-,  -1 1-1    =1  W17    7                7-,7    W,                    TM   -,r,7   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  TW7   -,.-7   TTT    NU'T~~~~~/
qwl -1  ow -1  T~~~~~ -1l  51-l T  U  U-1 -1  T,-.,  7Z 1- 1-   ~'00900000!~! 000!! 00) 0"PK00 M-00 7007o0,T 0.-,                                                          o0''p00000 T,00'o
7117   717-1  ;F, Z  Fl"i  T0-       0 P77      Tw.    El    777'00000   P"'00'OPO00000000000                  .o'o0000,!0 u0o!!sO0   00000/M0*!00'0'm00
...     ...                (11)   l1'000'!!  !P09  "00!000,!0  !09000000                      0090000   00
9090000.000000000000 000'0P0P!0   9~~~~~~~~0000P00---------



ANNEX 19
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Taxes and Duties 1/
Introduction
1.        Taxes in the Sudan are levied by both the Central Government and
by local governments. The main sources of Central Government revenue are
direct and indirect taxes. Revenue from direct taxes has grown in importance
over the past five years from 20 to 30% of tax revenues. Indirect taxes
account for about 50% of total Government revenue and 70% of tax revenue.
Taxes on international trade (import and export duties) are the most impor-
tant, comprising 36% of total Government revenue. Taxes on production and
consumption are somewhat less important, but still exceed the value of direct
taxes. Central Government taxes are levied in South Darfur Province through
the office of the Ministry of Finance in Nyala. By their nature, their
incidence falls almost exclusively on urban dwellers and merchants, and on
Government employees. The vast majority of the population is liable only
for local government taxes.
2.        The main sources of local government revenue are property rates
and taxes on crops, animals and land. Average total local revenue for
South Darfur has been estimated at about 1Sd 1.4 million (US$3.5 million)
per year. The revenue of Eastern District Council, in 1974/75 amounted to
over 1Sd 600,000 (US$1.5 million).
Local Revenue, Eastern District Council, 1970/71 to 1974/75
ISd '000        US$ '000
i970/71                 380                950
1971/72                 360                900
1972/73                 400              1,000
1973/74                 400              1,000
1974/75                 600             1,500
1/   Source of Data:  Hunting Technical Services and Ministry of Finance.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
There are three taxes which affect most people. These are:
(a) the livestock sales tax;
(b) the tribal animal tax; and
(c) the crop sales tax.
Livestock Sales Tax
3.         This tax is levied at a fixed rate which is set annually for the
whole province. The rate had remained stable for a number of years but was
revised upwards in 1973/74. The tax is paid by the buyer and represents
(1974/75) just over .5 percent of the value of animals traded at Ed Da'ein.
Although a rate for calves is given, in practice all cattle pay the full tax.
Recently, a local "self-help" contribution tax has been added to the basic
tax by the Council; this is 10 pt (US$0.25) per head, plus the usual charge
of 1 pt (US$0. 025) per receipt issued. This tax has also been levied on
other items including sacks of sugar, flour, etc. An additional tax is
payable by butchers who slaughter in the town slaughterhouse.
4.         The sales tax is collected by clerks of the Rural Council at the
four main livestock markets in Eastern District 1/; a legal sales receipt
cannot be obtained unless the tax has been paid. In the other twenty or
so registered markets in the area, the rights to collect the sales tax
and to issue legal sales receipts are sold to private individuals. The
collection rights in the largest of these markets (Abu Gabra and Kileikli
Abu Salama) were sold for ISd 1,000 and iSd 900 in 1975/76.  The value of tax
receipts sold may be two or three times the price of the market, and thus the
council loses a certain amount of potential tax revenues by utilizing this
procedure. On the other hand, however, it saves money which would otherwise
have to be spent mobilising clerks to attend the markets. As markets grow in
size, they may be taken over and controlled by the Council. Until 1965/66,
Ed Da'ein livestock market itself was privately operated; it is likely that
some of the larger sold markets may be taken over by the Council in the near
future.
1/   Nyala, Ed Da'ein, Abu latariq, and Gimelaya.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
Livestock Sales Tax and Slaughter Tax Rates,
South Darfur 1975
Sales Tax       Slaughter Tax
(hSd per head)   (SSd per head)
Cattle (mature)                                0.50              0.25
Calves                                         0.20
Sheep                                          0.10              0.05
Goats                                          0.06              0.05
Camels                                         0.375             0.25
Horses                                         0.625
Donkeys                                        0.125
5.        Evasion,  By comparing the current estimated offtake of livestock
in Eastern District Council with the recorded and estimated sales at regis-
tered markets, it is thought that approximately half the cattle, one quarter
of the sheep and an unknown number of goats do not pass through markets
when they are sold. This represents presently a loss of revenue in the
region of about LSd 18,000 (US$45,000) per year. Evasion is obviously a
simple matter since livestock traders and agents buy stock from farms and
from nomad camps, and the inconvenience of registering sales is probably as
much the reason for non-payment of tax as the desire to avoid payment, since
the tax is levied at such a low rate. Checks are supposed to be made at
Omdourman to prevent livestock entering the "zariba" which have not been
taxed, and there are guards patrolling the approaches to Omdourman for this
purpose. However, it is known that there are simple ways of avoiding this
obstacle by using re-cycled receipts.
6.        At the markets, all sales are taxed and the tax receipt is taken
as evidence of ownership. The stamp of the "demin" or guarantor on the
receipt also provides some security for the buyer against the risk of having
bought a stolen animal. An undoubted advantage to those merchants who pur-
hase livestock markets, apart from the tax revenue, is the fact that they
are in a position to issue valid tax receipts to themselves to cover all their
dealings. At present, no systematic check is made on the number of receipt
books used at each of the sold markets (at least, in the Eastern District of
South Darfur) so the difference between the auction price of the market and
the tax revenue collected cannot be estimated.



ANNEX 19
Page 4
Tribal Animal Tax
7.        This is essentially a wealth tax, based on ownership of livestock.
It is levied each year at a specified rate for each class of livestock
throughout the province, with young and draught animals exempt. The maximum
rates were originally laid down in 1925 and applied until recently. Presently
they are as follows:
Sudan (Maximum)         South Darfur
- --------------ISd--
Camels                          1.00                    0.375
Horses                         0.50                     0.625
Cattle                         0.50                     0.600
Donkeys                         0.25                    0.125
Sheep                          0.15                     0.065
Goats                          0.10
The collection of this tax is the only remaining function of the traditional
administration system. The tribes are divided into omodiyas and sheikships
(Annex 4) and tax estimates are based on the returns made by them for each
subdivision of the tribe. Eastern District is the Council to which the omdas
of the Plzeiqat pay the tribal animal tax.  Clearly the Council officers have
no way of accurately estimating livestock numbers. In practice the total tax
liability, which is determined largely by the demands of the Provincial Coun-
cil, is counted in livestock and divided among the 15 omdas in the Eastern
District Council on the basis of previous estimates. The omdas themselves
divide up the liability among the sheiks who are responsible for its collec-
tion, and they are assisted in this by the manadeeb who patrol the migration
routes checking on tax payment. The bulk of tax payments are made between
July and November when the pastoralists are selling livestock. The sheiks
receive 20 percent of the value and the omdas ISd 6 (US$15) per month for
their services. Despite the recent large increases in the tax assessments,
the taxes are usually paid and there are no serious arrears.
8.        Evasion.  As long as the total tax estimate is paid, there is
in effect no evasion of the tax. Although some livestock owners may well
pay no tax at all, there is some prestige attached to possession of a tax
receipt, which often persuades even owners of very small numbers of stock
to pay the tax. It is estimated that only one-fifth of the estimated number



ANNEX 19
Page 5
of cattle and sheep are assessed for tax. Consequently, there is great scope
for increasing the rateable value of each omda by raising his taxable assess-
ment, and this has been a popular way of quickly increasing the provincial
revenue. As it stands, the tax has no effect at all upon the number of
animals because the assessment rate is so low, amounting to no more than
1Sd 2 (US$5) over the life of a mature bull if it is in fact paid. In
addition, the present means of collecting the tax is very erratic so that it
is not directly related to the ability to pay. To be effective as a tool of
social policy, it would have to be based on actual ownership and levied at a
proportional, progressive or retrogressive rate.
Crop Tax
9.        Crop tax rates are set annually for each council area, and some
variation in the pattern of output is reflected in the tax rates applied.
Together they represent just over 10 percent of the value of rainfed cash
crops and just less than 10 percent of the value of marketed staple grains.
There are two crop taxes:
(a) Gebana. Although this is called a tax, it is, in
effect, a market handling charge to cover weighing,
porterage, etc., and is set at a fixed sum per kantar
for each crop. Hashab, hides and honey pay only this
tax.
(b) Ashur. This is an ad valorem tax on rainfed crops,
including the staple grains which are marketed.
The following were the rates in the Eastern District Council in 1974/75.
Gebana                    Ashur
(per kantar)              (per kantar)
45 kg                    45 kg
Rainfed Cash Crops
(Groundnuts, sesame,
kerkady, watermelon seed,               7 pt                    10 per cent
shatta, salsa, lubia).
Staple Grains
(Dukhn, dura)                          7 pt                      8 per cent
Hashab                                25 pt
Hides                                   5 pt/kg
Honey                                   7 pt
Semn                                   7 pt                      3 per cent



ANNEX 19
Page 6
The crop tax rates have been raised twice in the last four years and the tax
on dukhn and dura was not imposed until 1971/72. The largest increase has
been on hashab which has moved from 5 pt per kantar (pre 1971/72) to 13 pt
(1972/72) to 25 pt (1974/75). Ashur on rainfed crops has been raised from
8 percent to 10 percent.
10.       Evasion.  The taxes are paid by the crop buyers when the crop is
weighed at each of the registered crop markets. Merchants who buy crops out-
side the markets are obliged to take them to the nearest market (or more
usually Ed Da'ein) to have them check weighed and taxed. Since the number
of major crop merchants in the area is small, the opportunities for evasion
(assuming the market clerks are not acting corruptly) are small. It is
known that sometimes agents pay the crop tax in their own name instead of
the merchant's so as to reduce the liability for income or business profits
tax. There are road posts outside Nyala and in Ed Da'ein to check that the
taxes have been paid on crops being moved by lorry, and direct checks are
made on the oil mills and warehouses to prevent groundnuts and sesame from
going there untaxed. In general, it is not thought that large quantities
of the major cash crops go untaxed. The staples are only consistently taxed
when traded by merchants and the small quantities sold at local markets are
not taxed systematically.
11.       Revenues from groundnuts were decisive and amounted to about 57%
of total estimated tax revenues in the Eastern District Council in 1974/75.
Total revenues from all taxes collected amounted to SdL 236,000 (US$690,000),
of which about 30% was from livestock sales and about 70% from crop sales
(Table 1).
January 28, 1977



Table 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Tax Revenue from Crops
ILiQstocBOk mutarn Distrit Ceami 197*- 5
1..   Livestock  3a1e; lax
a)   Pvu  controlled markLets    Sd I                       SO i
Cattle                 11 732
Sheep                   3 253
Goats                   1 053
Other                   1 o96
Total                                           17 13ll-
b)   Sold markcets
Total                   4 440                    4 440
2.   Tribal Animal Tax
Cattle
S heep
Goats
Other
Total                                           70 753
3.   Crop Sales Tax
Ashur      Gebana        Total
Groundnuts         106 763    25 759        132 522
Sesame                 993        695         1 688
Haslh ab                        2 652         2 652
Kerkady                 22         15             37
IJatbermelon seed      411        287            698
All othler crops       159        114            273
Total             108 348    29 522         137 870       137 870)
Grand TIotal   23() 197
January 24, 1977



ANNEX 20
Page 1
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The main assumptions used in the economic rate of return calcula-
tions are summarized below; further details are available in Tables 1 to 5.
2.        Program Life.  The economic life of the proposed Development Program
(Program) was assumed to be 30 years. In this analysis the costs and benefits
of both the proposed Project and of a Second Phase Project were included.
3.        Costs.  Costs were based on prices estimated as of March 1977.
They include all of the incremental capital and operating costs which would
be incurred on behalf of the Program, with the exception of the costs of:
(i) technical assistance to marketing companies; (ii) the health survey;
and (iii) operation of water facilities not directly related to the settle-
ment and livestock components of the Program. The economic effect of additional
employment generated by the Program and the expected foreign exchange earnings
have been included in the rate of return calculation. Incremental family
labor was costed at zero as this represents labor which would otherwise remain
unutilized. Farm labor was valued at market prices. Costs exclude taxes and
other transfers within the economy. A physical contingency of 10% was
included in the rate of return calculations.
4.        Benefits.  The groundnut prices used in the analysis were based on
projected prices over the development period (Table 7). Gum arabic prices
used were the actual prices for the 1975/76 season; these prices were held
constant for the entire development period (Table 8). Livestock prices
utilized were the actual current market prices in Nyala; these were also
held constant throughout the development period. The millet production
foregone during settlement was not included, as it would be offset by the
food procured under the World Food Program.
5.        Foreign Exchange.  Foreign exchange was shadow priced at a rate
of ISd 1 = US$2 (compared to the current rate of bSd 1 = US$2.5) in the
economic cost and benefit calculations to reflect a more realistic value
of foreign exchange for the economy. The rate of return without shadow
pricing of foreign exchange was also computed (Table 2).
Rates of Return
6.        The following rates of return for the proposed program were
calculated:
(a) Overall economic rate of return for both the Project and the
Second Phase Project combined (Table 1). The rate of return = 14.5%.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
(b) Overall financial rate of return (no shadow pricing of
fcreign exchange) for both the Project and the Second Phase
Project combined (Table 2). The rate of return = 15%.
(c) Economic rate of return for the settlement and crop compo-
nents for both the Project and the Second Phase Project
combined (Table 3). The rate of return = 9%.
(d) Economic rate of return for the settlement and crop
components of the Project only (Table 4). Rate of
return = 4.6%.
(e) Economic rate of return for the livestock component for
both the Project and the Second Phase Project combined
(Table 5). Rate of return = 22.5%.
7.        The overall rate of return for the Project and the Second Phase
Project combined (14.5%) is a reflection of the rates of return of two
components: (i) settlement and crop production (rate of return 9%); and (ii)
livestock development (rate of return 22.5%). These two components, however,
are not independent; one of the main purposes of the settlement program is
the opening of stockroutes for nomadic cattle, and any reduction of the
settlement and crop component would adversely affect the livestock produc-
tion. It is not possible at this stage to quantify this adverse effect and
no sensitivity analysis has been made on the settlement rate or on the
number of families settled. Therefore, a reduction of the settlement and
crop component would not necessarily improve the overall rate of return.
8.        The calculation of an overall rate of return for the Project only
was not considered appropriate as such a calculation would not reflect
the potential benefits of the entire development program - a period of 10
to 12 years. In the Project period, settlement work would begin in year two
and by the end of year 5 or 6 only about 25% of the settlers would be
allocated land; at that time only a modest start-up production would have
been achieved. At that time also it is expected that the adaptive research
program for crop production would come forward with proposals to improve
the traditional farming methods and to increase production. In the initial
years, any success in modernizing livestock production would be modest,
as efforts would be geared towards testing the attitudes of the pastoralists
and preparing the basis for a sustained growth in subsequent years. There-
fore, no separate assessment of Project livestock benefits could be cal-
culated. Initial investments in Project related infrastructure, research,
management and organization, veterinary services, etc. would be high, and
results would materialize only gradually over a longer period of time.
Sensitivity Analysis
9.        The analysis of the rate of return was tested against changes
in costs and benefits due to variations in prices, production, slippage
of benefits and non-adoption of improved farming techniques by settlers.
Details of the sensitivity analysis are presented below and are summarized
in Table 6.



ANNEX 20
Page 3
10.       Sensitivity of the overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the
Project and the Second Phase Project combined. An increase of 10% in all
costs would reduce the ERR by 1% p^    from' l!1,5% to 13.5%.  A decrease of 10%
in benefits would also reduce the ERR by 1% point from 14.5% to 13.5%. A
decrease in livestock sales of 10% or the non-adoption of improved cultivation
techniques by settlers would reduce the ERR by 1.7% points from 14.5% to
12.8%. A one year delay in benefits would reduce the ERR by 1.5% points from
14.5% to 13%.
11.       Sensitivity of the settlement and crop component, the Project and
the Second Phase Project combined. The non-adoption of improved techniques by
farmers would reduce the ERR of the settlement and crop component by 4.5%
points from 9% to 4.5%.
12.       Sensitivity of the livestock component.  A decrease of 10% in live-
stock sales would reduce the ERR of the livestock component by 3.8% points
from 22.5% to 18.7%.
Project Risk
13.       The Project would involve a number of substantial risks which could
affect its rate of implementation and possibly its overall success. The most
important of these would be the extent to which the various proposals would
prove acceptable and the rate at which it would be practically feasible to
introduce them. There would be some uncertainty as to whether the new
settlers would be able to achieve the projected yields; this in turn would
have an effect on cropping patterns. There is also a possibility that
rapidly fluctuating crop prices could have an adverse effect on settlers'
incomes and hence on their willingness to participate. More basic perhaps,
is the fact that the willingness of farmers to settle in new areas is not
known precisely. In particular, farmers may not wish to abandon some of the
area they occupy at present, and in this case the trekking routes could not
be opened as planned. Once settled in the new areas, farmers may reject the
WSDC's advice and continue their present cultivation practices, thus allowing
the area around the newly opened wateryards to deteriorate. Because of the
degree of risk and uncertainty involved, a two-phase development appears to
offer the advantage of increased flexibility as well as a reduction in the
risk which would be incurred should the first stage prove unsuccessful. The
ability and capability of the WSDC simultaneously to staff and implement an
innovative Project would be a major risk. The WSDC's management capability
would, in fact, be one of the crucial determinating factors in the success
of the Project. This management risk is somewhat difficult to quantify, and
was therefore not included directly in the sensitivity analysis; its primary
effect would be a delay in benefits. It is expected to be somewhat lessened,
however, through the provision of professional and supporting staff for the
WSDC under the Project.
14.       In trying to lessen the risk one solution would have been to reduce
both the size and the scope of the Project by either curtailing or postponing
the implementation of individual components; another solution might have been



ANNEX 20
Page 4
to reduce the area covered by the Project. Both of these alternatives would,
however, be self-defeating. The scope of some individual components was
greatly reduced during appraisal and some which were not immediately perti-
nent to the Project's success were fully deleted. However, as all activities
which are proposed for financing under the Project are highly inter-dependent,
any further reductions would endanger the effectiveness of the entire effort.
It was also felt that the activities should be initiated as scheduled, for
otherwise there would be a real danger that crop producers and pastoralists
would respond in ways which could jeopardize the synchronization of the devel-
opment concept as a whole.
15.       The Project would also be difficult in that it would require a
conservative nomadic people to institute substantial changes in their tradi-
tional practices. In fact, without these changes in the nomads' traditional
livestock practices and cultural outlook, the rangelands would continue to
deteriorate as a result of over-grazing and other poor livestock management
practices. Hence, one of the major objectives of the Project would be to
achieve a better balance between livestock herds and the carrying capacity
of land by means of persuasion, education and training, and by providing
incentives to stockowners to sell more cattle. Efforts would also be made to
involve the traditional (tribal) authorities in the development effort, and
the ability of Project managers to ensure their active cooperation would be
crucial. However, these risks must be balanced against greater certainty
that without the Project the long-term decline of the Project area would be
accelerated, and the incomes and way of life of the inhabitants seriously
jeopardized.
April 11, 1977



ANNEX 20
Table 1
Appendix
SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Economic Rate of Return Calculation: Footnotes to Table I
1/   This calculation is based on prices estimated as of March 1977 and in
1977 constant prices. The economic prices are net of taxes and other
transfers to the economy. The shadow exchange rate of iSd I = US$2.0
has been used in the analysis in estimating the difference between
foreign and domestic prices.
2/   Project Management includes the following section of the Western Savannah
Development Corporation: Director's office, Khartoum office, Administration
and Finance Division, Procurement Division, Marketing Division, 50% of
Civil Works Division, Deputy Director General's office and Administrative
Unit. Up to year twelve, 100% of the corresponding economic costs have
been taken into account, except the costs of the Procurement Division
which also handles the ODM/Abu Dhabi-financed project and for which only
50% of economic costs are allocated to the Project. After year twelve,
only 50% of Project management costs are charged to the Project, as most
management overheads directed at settlement and crops until year twelve
would be carried out at other areas for which no benefits are quantified.
Management overheads for livestock production and water facilities would
remain unchanged throughout the Project's life.
3/   Settlement and Crops include:  World Food Program Unit, Land Management
Division, Land Management Unit, Crop Division, Nucleus Development
Centers, Farm Management. Up to year twelve, 100% of the corresponding
economic costs have been taken into account, except the cost of the
World Food Program Unit which also handles the ODM/Abu Dhabi-financed
project and for which only 50% of economic costs are allocated to the
Project. Cost of food procured by the World Food Program is not in-
cluded. After year twelve, only 20% of the costs of the above compo-
nents excluding the World Food Program Unit, which no longer will be
necessary, are charged to the Project, as most activities related to
settlement and crops would be directed at other areas for which no
benefits are quantified.
4/   bSd 54 per settler family from year nine.
5/   Livestock includes:  Range Division, Livestock Division, Veterinary
Services and Training Center. Throughout the Project's life, 100%
of the economic costs of these components, except for the Veterinary
Services for which only 80% is charged to the Project.



ANNEX 20
Table 1
Appendix
6/   Water facilities include:  50% of economic costs of the Civil Works
Division (the other 50% are charged against Project management) and 10%
of the economic costs of the Wateryards Division. Only 30 wateryards
contribute to Project benefits but maintenance covers 200 wateryards;
therefore only 15% is charged to the Project for its economic evaluation.
7/   Monitoring and Evaluation:  50% of economic costs is charged to the
Project's economic analysis, because this unit also handles the ODM/Abu
Dhabi-financed project.
8/   Technical Assistance to Marketing companies, and the Health Survey, are
not included in the analysis.
9/   The benefit streams shown here correspond to "Assumption I" for the
without program situation and "Assumption II" for the with program
situation (Assumptions I and II are described in Annex 6). The negative
values in the benefit streams corresponding to groundnuts and gum
arabic production represent the value of groundnut and gum arabic
production foregone because of project implementation. During the
first eleven years including the Project and 5 years of six of the Second
Phase Project of the Development Program 10,250 farming families would
move to the new settlement areas, thus abandoning their farms. The
agricultural production in the new areas would be less than it would
have been in the old ones during the first few years, because settlers
need 4 years to develop their holdings and establish new gum arabic
tree plantations. It was estimated that one year of production would
be fully lost to the movement and it would take 4 years to develop the
full area of the new farm and about 8 years for gum arabic.
10/ Cost of the millet production foregone during settlement is not included
and will be offset by food procured under the World Food Program (see
also footnote 3).
April 11, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation: Phases I and II Combined 1/
(LSd'OOO)
-Cost StreamBenefit Stream--- --------------------Cost Streams---____________________                                           ----------Benefit Streams   --------
Project         Settle-         On Farm                                       Monitoring         Physical                                                                    Net
Manage-        ment  and       Incremental   Live-           Water                and            Contin-                          rount-    Gum        Live- 
Year        ment  2/        Crops  3/       Costs 4/      stock 5/    Facilitie  6/        valuation 7/   ence   10           Total 8/        nuts      Arabic    stock    Total_2' Benefits
1            639           1,188             -           1,029             321                 85             326           3,588             -           -         -         -       (3,588)
2            219             382             -             345             101                 68             111           1,226             (10)          (3)     -         (13)   (1,239)
3            198             370             -             341             109                 68             109           1,195             (58)         (24)     -          (82)   (1,277)
4            202             420             -             353             113                 68             116            1,272           (144)         (61)     180        (25)   (1,297)
5            191             399             -             334             106                 68             110           1,208            (247)       (109)      810       454       (754)
6            355             475             -             278             246                 37             139            1,530           (381)        (187)     900        332    (1,198)
7            188             475             -             278             100                 37             108            1,186           (555)       (293)      945        97    (1,089)
8            201             475             _             278             113                 37             110            1,214           (688)        (407)   1,080        (15)   (1, 2V')
9            193             475             437           278             105                 37             152            1,677           (566)        (479)   1,305        260    (1,41
10            192             475             508           278             104                 37             159           1,753            (281)       (509)   1,665        875       (8/-
11            166             475             543           278              84                 37             158            1,741            229         (473)   1,890    1,646
12'           146             475             553           278              84                 37             157            1,730            770         (394)   2,025    2,401          6 I
13             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379            938         (240)   2,070    2,768        1, 3,'
14             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          1,622          177    3,285    5,084        3,7(
15             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          1,953          295    3,420    5,668        4,28
16             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          2,267          669    4,365    7,301        5,9'
17             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          2,561        1,037    4,860    8,458        7,07',
18             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          2,854        1,331    4,905    9,090        7,1).
19             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          3,145        1,509    4,995    9,649        8,270
20             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          3,431        1,590    5,040   10,061        8,682
21             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          3,720        1,616    5,130   10,516        9,137
22             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          3,920        1,621    5,175   10,716        9,337
23             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          4,110        1,621    5,265   10,996        9,617
24             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          4,300        1,621    5,310   11,186        9,807
25             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          4,500        1,621    5,400   11,521    10,142
26             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          4,560        1,621    5,445   11,626    10,247
27             73             229             553           278              84                 37              125           1,379          4,730        1,621    5,445   11,796       10,417
28             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          4,810       1,621    5,445   11,876    10,497
29             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          4,850        1,621    5,445   11,916    10,537
30             73             229             553           278              84                 37             125            1,379          4,850        1,621    5,445   11,916       10,537
Rate  of Return  :14 5 7'
See footnotes in Appendix
J   o
January 24, 1977



SUDAN                                                  ANNEx 20
Table 2
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculation: Phases I and II Combined 1/
(LSd'000)
Total                     Total               Net
Year                      Costs                   Benefits            Benefits
1                        3,148                        -                (3,148)
2                        1,117                        (10)             (1,127)
3                        1,152                        (61)             (1,213)
4                        1,152                         18              (1,134)
5                        1,096                        544                (552)
6                        1,335                        474                (861)
7                        1,053                        310                (743)
8                        1,078                        254                (824)
9                        1,543                        529              (1,014)
10                        1,619                      1,098                (521)
11                        1,549                      1,756                 207
12                        1,541                      2,378                 837
13                        1,230                      2,661               1,431
14                        1,230                      4,704               3,474
15                        1,230                      5,184               3,954
16                        1,230                      6,633               5,403
17                        1,230                     7,611                6,381
18                        1,230                      8,090               6,860
19                        1,230                      8,532               7,302
20                        1,230                      8,861               7,631
21                        1,230                      9,201               7,971
22                        1,230                      9,361               8,131
23                        1,230                      9,798               8,568
24                        1,230                      9,843               8,613
25                        1,230                     10,075               8,845
26                        1,230                     10,191               8,961
27                        1,230                     10,331               9,101
28                        1,230                     10,362               9,132
29                        1,230                     10,393               9,163
30                        1,230                     10,423               9,193
Financial Rate of Return: 15%
1/  In the analysis, the current exchange rate (1Sd 1 = US$2.5) has been
used, instead of the shadow exchange rate (ESd 1 =US$2.0) as in
Table 1.
Jaruary 24, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of the Settlement and Crops Component: Phases I and II Combined
(ESd'000)
----------------------------------Cost Streams-            -------------------____         -_________-Be- -fit Streams-
Project        Settle-          On-                              Monitoring           Physical
Manage-      ment  and         Farm             Water                and               Contin-                       Ground-          Gum                       Net
Year      ment  1/        Crops 2/       Costs 2/    Facilities 3/    Evaluation 1/    gencies (10O)               Total         nuts 2/      Arabic        Total       Benefits
1           320          1,188            -                171                  43                  172           1,894           -             -             -        (1,894)
2           110            382            -                 51                  34                   58             635           (10)           (3)          (13)       (648)
3            99            370            -                 59                  34                   56             618           (58)          (24)          (82)       (700)
4           101            420            -                 63                  34                   62             680          (144)          (61)         (205)        (885)
5            16            399            -                 56                  34                   58             643          (247)         (109)         (356)       (999)
6           178            475            -                126                  19                   80             878          (381)         (187)         (568)     (1,446)
7            96            475            -                  50                 19                   64             702          (555)         (293)         (848)     (1,550)
8           100            475            -                 63                  19                   66             723          (688)         (407)       (1,095)     (1,818)
9            97            475            437               55                  19                  108           1,191          (566)         (479)       (1,045)     (2,236)
10            96            475            508               54                  19                  115           1,267          (281)         (509)         (790)     (2,057)
11            83            475            543               44                  19                  116           1,280           229          (473)         (244)     (1,524)
12            73            475            553               44                  19                  116           1,280           770          (394)          376         (904)
13            37            229            553               44                  19                   88             970           938          (240)          698         (272)
14            37            229            553               44                  19                   88             970         1,622           177         1,799          829
15            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         1,953           295         2,248        1,278
16            37            229            553               44                  19                   88             970         2,267           669         2,936       1,966
17            37            229            553               44                  19                   88             970         2,561         1,037         3,598       2,628
18            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         2,854         1,331         4,185        3,215
19            37            229            553               44                  19                   88             970         3,145         1,509         4,654        3,684
20            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         3,431         1,590         5,021        4,051
21            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         3,720         1,616         5,336        4,366
22            3i            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         3,920         1,621         5,541        4,571
23            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         4,110         1,621         5,731        4,761
24            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         4,300         1,621         5,921        4,951
25            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         4,500         1,621         6,121        5,151
26            37            229            553                44                  19                  88             970         4,560         1,621         6,181        5,211       
27            37            229            553                44                 19                   88             970         4,730         1,621         6,351        5,381                 a,
28            37            229            553                44                 19                   88              970        4,810         1,621         6,431        5,461
29            37            229            553                44                  19                  88              970        4,850         1,621         6,471        5,501
30            37            229            553                44                  19                  88              970        4,850         1,621         6,471        5,501
Rate of Return:   9 %
1/  50% of corresponding cost stream in Table 1.
2/   Same streams as in Table 1
3/ Wateryards
January 24, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of the Settlement and Crops Copoent:   Phase i 1/
(I.Sd' 000)
7/
----------------------------------------Cost Streams------------------                                           -----Benefit Streams------
Project       Settlement          On-           Water           Monitoring          Physical
Manage-           and            Farm           Faci-              and               Contin-                     Ground-      Gum                        Net
Year    ment  2/       __ros  3/         Costs 4/       lities 5/        Evaluation 6/    gencies  10%)/    Total          nuts -   Arabic        Total        Benefits
1        320            1,188             -              171                43                172             1,894        -           -           -           (1,894)
2        110               382            -               51                34                 58               635         (10)        (3)        (13)          (648)
3         99              370             -               59                34                 56               618        (58)        (24)        (82)          (700)
4        101              420             -               63                34                 62               680       (144)        (61)       (205)          (885)
5         96              399             -               56                34                 58               643       (246)       (109)       (355)          (998)
6         44               119            -               67                15                 24               269       (238)       (109)       (347)          (616)
7         23               119            -               32                15                 19               208        (229)      (109)       (338)          (546)
8         25               119            -               35                15                 19               213        (214)      (109)       (323)          (536)
9         24               119            136             33                15                 33               360       (152)       (109)       (261)          (621)
10         24               119            136             33                15                 33               360         (70)      (103)       (173)          (533)
11         20               119            136             21                15                 31               342          56        (67)        (11)          (353)
12         18               119            136             21                15                 31               340         190         23         213           (127)
13          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208        333         177         510            302
14          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208         399        329         728            520
15          5                12            136             21                15                 19               288        481         415         896            688
16          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208        555         415         970            762
17          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208         632        415       1,047            839
18          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208        703         415       1,118            110
19          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208         798        415       1,213          1,005
20          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208         845        415       1,260          1,052
21          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208         916        415       1,331          1,123
22          5                12            136             21                15                  19              208         966        415       1,381          1,173
23          5                12            136             21                15                  19              208       1,012        415       1,427          1,219
24          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208      1,062         415       1,427          1,269
25          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208      1,101         415       1,516          1,308
26          5                12            136             21                15                  19              208       1,144        415       1,559          1,351
27          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208      1,166         415       1,581          1,373
28          5                12            136             21                15                 19               208      1,176         415       1,591          1,383
29          5                12            136             21                15                  19              208       1,186        415       1,601          1,393
30          5                12            136             21                15                  19              208       1,195        415       1,610          1,402
Rate of return 4.6%
1/  This calculation analyzes the contribution of Phase I to the Settlement and Crops Component of the Project.  Prices are estimated on the same
basis as in Table 1.  The settlement and crops component would be completed in year 5, at the end of which 2,525 families would have been
settled.
2/  Sections of the DA and cost items included in the Project Management Cost streams are listed in footnote 2 of Table I.Up to year 5, costs are
the same as in Table 3.  Between year 5 and year 12 (included), 25% of Project management costs shown in Table 3 are charged to Phase I because most of
the activities will be concentrated on the 7,725 families settling during Phase II.  After year 12, only 12% of these costs are charged to
Phase I.
3/  Sections of the DA and cost items included in the Settlement and Crops cost stream are listed in footnote 3 of Table 1.  After year 5, costs
of the World Food Program Unit are not included.Up to year 5, costs are the same as in Table 3. Between year 5 and year 12 (included), 25% of
the costs shown in Table 3 are charged to Phase I.  After year 12, 5% of the costs are charged to Phase I (compared to 20% of costs charged
to Phases I and II combined in the analysis presented in Table 1).
4/  3Sd 54 per settler family from year 9.
5/  The Water Facilities cost stream incltldes (i) until year S, 10% of the economic costs of the Water Yards Division, and (ii) after year 5, 5%                                   c 
of the economic costs of the Water Yards Division.
6/  Monitoring and Evaluation cost stream: up to year 5, identical to that of the Settlement and Crop Component for Phases I and IT combined
(Table 3); after vear 5, 807 of the costs shown in Table 3 are allocated to Phase I.
7/  Benefits from crops accrue from the  producLion of the 2,525 families which would be settled during Phase 1.
lantWary 24, 19 /



S LI DAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of the Livestock Component: Phases I and II Combined
(LSd'000)
-                  -     -------------Cost Streams-------------------------------------------
Project                                               Monitoring            Physical
Manage-                             Water                 and                Contin-                       Total          Net
Year      ment   1/       Livestock 2/    Facilities 3/          Evaluation 1/    gencies (10%)          Total    Benefits 2/  Benefits
1          320             1,029                 150                  43                 154           1,696          -          (1,696)
2          110               345                  50                  34                  54              593         -            (593)
3           99               341                  50                  34                  52              576         -            (576)
4          101               353                  50                  34                  54              592         180          (412)
5           96               334                  50                  34                  51              565         810           245
6          178               278                 120                   19                 60              655         900           245
7           94               278                  50                  19                  44              485         945           460
8          100               278                  50                  19                  45              492       1,080           .588
9           97               278                  50                  19                  44              488       1,305           817
10           96               278                  50                   19                 35              382       1,665         1,283
11           83               278                  40                   19                 42              462       1,890         1,428
12           73               278                  40                   19                 41              451       2,025         1,574
13           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       2,070         1,659
14           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       3,285         2,874
15           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       3,420         3,009
16           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       4,365         3,954
17           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       4,860         4,449
18           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       4,905         4,494
19           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       4,995         4,584
20           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,040         4,629
21           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,130         4,719
22           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,175         4,764
23           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,265         4,854
24           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,310         4,899
25           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,400         4,989
26           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,445         5,034
27           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,445         5,034
28           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,445         5,034
29           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,445         5,034
30           37               278                  40                   19                 37              411       5,445         5,034
Rate of Return:22. s/
1/  507. of corresponding cost stream from Table 1
2/  Same streams as in Table I                                                                                                                                                  x
3/  Rafir Construction                                                                                                                                                        0 
January 24, 1977



ANNEX 20
SUDAN                                 Table  6
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Rate of Return Calculations
Base ROR
Overall Project Economic                               Sensitivity Analysis        ROR (%)
ROR, Phases I and II Combined           14.5         - Costs increased by 10%;         13.5
- Base Cost,benefits in-
creased by 10%;                 13.5
- Livestock Sales decreased
by 10%;                         12.8
- Farmers do not adopt
improved cultivation
techniques                      12.8
- One year slippage of
Benefits;                       13
Overall Project, Financial
ROR, Phases I and II Combined           15           - No sensitivity analy-
sis has been done on
the financial rate
of return
Economic, ROR, Settlement and
Crop component, Phases I and II
Combiand                                 9          - Farmers do not adopt
improved cultivation
techniques;                     4.5
Economic ROR, Settlement tnd
Crop component, Phase I                  4.6        - No sensitivity analysis
has been done on Phase I
only
Economic ROR, Livestock component
Phases I and II Combined                22.5         - Livestock Sales decreased
by 10%.                         18.7
.anuary 24, 1977



SUDAN
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut Prices
(1976 Constant Prices 'Sd/ton If Not Othcrwlie Indicated)
------------- Financial Prices ----------------                       --------------------  Economic Price - --------------
1976      1977       1978      1979     1980      1995                1976      1977       1978      1979       1980       1985
C.I.F. Europe (US$/ton)  1/                                  347        346       343        347      34^      424                 347        346        343       347        348       424
Freight, Insurance (US$/ton)                                  60         60        60         60       40        60                  60        60         60         60        60         60
F.O.B. Port -Sudan (US$/too)                                 *287       286        283       287      288       364                 287       286        283       287        288        364
F.O.B. Port - Sudan2/                                        114.8      114.4      113.2     114.8   115.2  145.6                   143.5     143.       141.5   143.5        144        182
F.O.B. Port - Sudan. Adjusted for quality  3/                133.1      133.4    132.8    135.5   136.7  178.8                      166.3     166.7   166.0    169.3          170.9   223.5
Oil-Seed Company Profit  4/                                    12.1      12.1       12.1      12.3    12.4   16.3                    15,1      15.2      15.1        15.4    15.6        20.3
Oil Seed Company Cost                                        121.0      121.3      120.7     123.2   124.3  162.5                   151.2    151.5   150.9          153.9   155.3    203.2
Export Expenses:
Brokerage (1. of Port-Sudan Buying Price)                1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1      1.1     1.5                  1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1       1.1       1.5
Bank Commission (1%.           "              )           1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1      1.1     1.5                 11         1.1      1.1         1.1       1.1       1.5
Oil Deficiency  (1/            "              )           1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1      1.1     1.5                  1.1        1.1      1.1         1.1       1.1       1.5
Impurities        (2           "              )           2.2       2.2        2.2        2.2     2.3      3.0                  2.2        2.2      2.2         2.2       2.2       3.0
Development Tax (27                           )           2.2        2.2       2.2        2.3      2.3    3.0                     -         -         -          -         -
Bank Interest 5/ (4.3%          '             )           4.6       4.6        4.6        4.7      4.7     6.0
Total Export Expsases                               12.3       12.3       12.3      12.5     12.6   16.5                    5.5       5.5       5.5         5.5      5.5        7.5
Buying Price, Port Sudan                                      108.7     109.0    108.4       110.7   111.7  146.0                   145.7    146.0   145.4          148.4   149.8    195.7
Marketing Expenses from Nyala:
Dealer's Profit (33 of Buying Price,Port-Sudan)   5.4               5.5        5.4        5.5      5.6     7.3                  5.4        5.5      5.4         5.5       5.6       7.3
Handling,Packing,Weighing                                15.1      15.1       15.1       15.1    15.1   15.1                   15.1       15.1     15.1        15.1      15.1      15.1
Rail Freight to Port-Sudan  6/                           16.1      16.1       16.1       16.1    16.1   16.1                   18.1       18.1     18.1        18.1      18.1      18.1
Decortication                                            -3.0       3.0        3.0        3.0      3.0     3.0                  3.0        3.0       3.0        3.0       3.0       3.0
Gibana Tax                                                2.2        2.2       2.2        2.2      2.2     2.2                    -        -          -         -          -          -
Ushur Tax(107, of Nyala Price decorticated)               6.1       6.1        6.1       6.3       6.1     9.3                                       - --
Total Marketing Expenses from Nyala                  47.9       48.0      47.9       48.2     48.3   53.0                   41.6      41.6      41.6        41.6     41.6       43.5
Buying Price, Nyala(decorticated)                              60.8      61.0       60.5      62.5      63.4   93.0                 104.1      104.4   103.8        106.8   108.2    152.2
Buying Price,Nyala (in shell)  7/                              42.0      42.1       41.7      43.1      43.7   64.2                  71.8       72.0     71.6        73.7    74.7       105.0
Expenses to Nyala:
Road Transport  8/                                        6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0      6.0     6.0                 '6.7        6.7       6.7         6.7      6.7       6.7
Handling                                                  2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        0, .2.0                     2.0       2.0       2.0         2.0      2.0        2.0
Total Expenses to Nyala                                8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0     8.0                  8.7        8.7      8.7         8.7       8.7       8.7
Farmgate Price   (in shell)                                    34.0      34.1       33.7       35.1      35.7   56.2                  63.1      63.3      63.9       65.0    66.0        96.3
1/   Price Prospects for Major primary Cooodifies, World Bank, June 1976
2/   ASd 1 =  us$ 2.5 for financial analysis,  ISd 1 = US$2 for economic analysis.
3/   1 ton of decorticated goundnots contains 600 kg of Hand Picked Selected(HPS) and 400 kg of Fair Average Quality  (FAQ) - Export price of
HPS is 15% above price of FAQ.  Share in HPS nuts in total exports is expected to rise from 17. at present to 207. in 1985 following recent investment ih
grading machinery- FOB prices have been adjusted accordingly.
4/   107. of Cils Seed Company  Cost (equals 9.1% of F.O.B. adjusted price).
5/   Interest on the purchase of one ton during about 4 months at 13% per annum.
6/   For the economic analysis, it is assumed that the  financial cost of rail transportation is equal
to its economic  price (the Sudan Railways Company revenues and operating expenses are approximately equal) and that
507. is foriign exchange.
7/   1 ton of groundnuts in shell gives 690 kg of shelled groundnuts.
8/   60 km 8 ESdO.l/ton/km; 507 foreign exchange.
Note: In order to maintain arithmetical  consistency, figures are not rounded in the table.  In the calculation of the economic
rate of return and of the farm budget, these figures have been rounded.
February 2, 1977



ANNEX 's 
SUDAN                                Table  8
SAVANNAH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Gum Arabic Prices
(ESd per ton)
Financial                f  Econom'ic
(ES 1=US$2.87)2/          (ES 1= US$ 2,
FOB Port Sudan (US$/ton)                        1,306                      1,306
FOB Port Sudan (ESd/ton)                         4555                        653
Export Expenses:
Average (9 months)                               3                          3
Administration, Supervision, Insurance          12                         12
Interest charges                                28                         -
Weight Loss (4%)                                12                         12
Price stablization Fund                         22                         -
Duties, Taxes, Levies                           29                         _
Royalties                                       35                         35
Shipping charges and quay dues                   2                          2
Gum Arabic Company Margin                       16                         16
Agent's commission abroad                      _ 9                          9
Total Export Expenses                      168                         89
Buying Price, Port Sudan                          287                        564
Merchant Profit                                     9                          9
Handling, storage, Marking                         38                         38
Interests                                          12                         -
Commissions                                         5                          5
Rail transport  3/                                 24                         27
Gibana tax                                          5                         -
Nyala Price                                       193                        485
Transportation to Nyala  4/                         8                          9
Farmgate Price                                    185                       476
1/ Actual prices for the 75/76 season. In the financial and economic
analyses, these prices are held constant.
2/ Export - bonus exchange rate
3/ 50% Foreign Exchange
4/ 60 km @ 10 pt/ton plus ES 2/ton for handling, 50% Foreign Exchange
January 24, 1977






-A~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.... S .  ..... ........... ............. .*kw ..
I         0               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
r    3"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
./        !           X
F-BoF~~~
m-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3   rn (D  M>Q  
(Da
i;53  ~                      a.






IBRD 12474RT
54                                                  OR'       OFRSOMIMORM LIMIT OF NOMA17 MOOVMENT        OR                                                  OR                                                    oe\                     FERMUARY 19;Rl
2t   ILIMITIN WtlVFOS S FARTHER SOIIT,I ' I                                                                                                           S U DA N
N~~~~~~~~~~~~UA
Savannah Development Project
LAND SYSTEMS
T. be sureyed i/                                                                                                         P,o.Ict ORMO bo-ndary
dO-go Phot T                                                                                                    --       0M/R,b-0pORE OROTI,IIR
N O R T H DARFLUR                                         NORTH   .                     .  --h
S C U t /I  D A R F U R             \                                                               |-f Reslcrch-center
K O R D O   F A N                   NuoIells dRoslOpmentoenfero
|S SF0  mB A       LNTIt SOt ion
| ''/ t 45/<\b: ................  .. .....                                          g .Y.                                                                                                             R,i -
05- MII.-M RI-A .oocar
BASEMEN                                                                              M T  M         S N_
ABAGGARA     8.-6q SwntelGa;   }t                                           <               Ggbra                                   %                      l tMuFRG
,   UmmTikein7  1  T   :  <   t   G G A R   A %      V   I U M              <            \            AEI Held                  Ti\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,  ~  \         KSRRS 
HA*~BANO A", o.b,I 5                                                                                                                                                                                    OP
,   (DANGO}   UmmDigul                                                                                                              KORD O0  0         NR   E           CE ,   \AI<
OAHGA RlOS T.PMSEX. Ab b
Bir el Hiebo >_        |      B A H R   F z5o' e G.HAZAz               \\> ;Xm    ros\                                                                     _rA4  ELE1 _ Gf
,  .ALLUV,0I.r- - 
/ 0 39 * t U D A N )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J..Tike-                                          G G.A KONERS A                  I                                                                                                                   >-             jETNIOPIA
/               Ip      tp      p       4      Sp\                                                        ,          -- rt                            e-         FRIAN ,b
QOZ~~~~ MIE1A MPR , 
74~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ E  G5 EZ                                                                                                            27 A                                                     .      AR      YA'<   EY 






c~~                            ~~                  ~              ~~                 ~                 ~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ....... ...... ..................    ..
.. .....  . .....                                                               --- -----...
/ /  / 3 1 ;@- / D '>'95~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
_            '                        /0                    s    A0  ,'/"oD    O   /D                                                                          >                  '                                            Z~~~~~~~~00-
i ; t., | +t *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0*//i
,W 9  3 'a X  3 'e <  ' tD 2, / 
t ; X < e ; e ;1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
>  >   S   P  | n c                                                                                                     2  -  ,                @  _  6  @ <    ,        , =       X,        <  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
wd  z         g          _c                                                                                                                                                                    u                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%
>   _   -  ->      -    D     g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                @          2 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z-






SUDAN
Savannah Developmen-t Project
LIVESTOCK - Grazing, Inaccessible, and  Burnedi Areas                                                                                                                            IBRD 12495R
January 1977
AREAS AVAILABLE FOR GRAZING                                                                                                                                         AREAS BURNED
WET SEASON                                                        MID DRY SEASON                                                       LATE DRY SEASON                                                                    MI DRY SEASON
i//. .1i/~//  NORTH DARFUR   '      60 Percnnr
tOO Percent                     ''10. 7                          3   O  Percent                                                            tOO Percentrw             SOUTH DARTFIR                               /30 Percent
9 2   Pe rc en t               nn s i8                                 0   P e rc e n t                         A8 0                             P e rc e n t  a                                  s/ .,ia2 0             P e rc e n t
86 Percent                                      ORT DAF          '       40 Percent                                  ORTuHSOUHARAFURR          554 PetcenitA   CRLAFLR                                  .               SROA
Pra a SOUTn LSARTUR  Miaan//a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOT
SUH A//FagnR                             86PretaOT                                                             40 Pere.t                                                             4  Percent       ~      A//     bae
Percent                                      Aa                                                                                            PeP                                                                         SOUT
NORTH                                                                NOnTNORTH                                                                                                                                      KORDOFAN
1~~~1  ED ~~~KORDORANH                                            ED A    FD/A  /Nc            KORODOAN                                  C/CAinTKORDOFAN'L
0TH          --     -a                                             SOUH.---.'6D0"($i~                                                                                                                              a
/    E46 A/n                 KORD~~~~             ~~OFAN       nAbsN                                                                                                        D ODFA  - hAN"                  /b  a/i/
/  nap/ad                                                                                                                     eNa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d  RC>,i:t<        /
BARaaa         NORt
____________________________________________   ____________________________________________                                                                            nAsa   SOUTH OAR//SR /2/   RRRFAFAAc   a   MID   AND   LATE~~~~~~B 
WET SEASON  WET & EARLY DRY SEASONS                                               LATE DRY SEASON                                                               F/Dana 'nc.                        KOFDOF/nT~~~~~~Al I  ID AN    LAT
iL/n/                                 DRY..  ~,  /a    SEAON
Nys a SOUTHP//a/R/      *NORT DEA /SRN                                        WET/R &E RLYDR    SEAON                                                  LcATE'~ DRY    SEAS NAM AC
Aaron, /a              b/ia/a   SOUTII BAA//SR        *                        7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Percent  bia STHAR/R       *2Pecnt                                        aa,
anna                                       NORTH /RT  .ARUR                                                   7PeNcrtH                  A2a  NOrcetH
~~~UTH  - -  ..                                          5~~~~~~~~~~~~~O TH                                             N .DSOTH                                   .
__      KRDISAN                                                                                                   rdnaaFANKORDOFAN                                           8   ecn
c                                  -"f05UTH -                                                                                                                                                 LKH  >I                       so
/      Ab/./                                               N    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                                        //5/_  -tN 
//oS,a// ~~~.  nap/aR     Ac/nato/i//a                         b/cs/ad                                          Sacaa F  't.         AaqIad               1 2~~-d  0 Petcenit
A/ /b.-a/ri// a                                                      /                AaiaS   '                                            ,W ucnaa, nrin0Prcn                                                                 -m
RA/AA//C                                                        A/MA/ii//N A/AAAB5RC.n                                                                                                         Towns
/  '0                                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
BOUNDARIE-
- - Pro act                                U i  DAN
AAHR 0 OHM/ni   A                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAHR FL OH/nZAL    *AHPrunnIN                                                                                                                                               S
natara                  sorara                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Land System
*                                            K//e..s.na                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nab/s                        Bahr el Arab R e



