Document of                          FILE OOPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3412-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $300.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TWELFTH POWER PROJECT
November 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1           =  Rp 625
Rp 100         =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million   =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton            =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)             =  0.0063 barrels
1 kilometer (km)        =  0.6215 miles (mi)
1 kilovolt (kV)         =  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere       =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere       =  1,000 volt-ampere (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)         =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)  =  1 million kilowatt hours (kWH)
TCF                     =  Trillion cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
AIP        -   Accelerated Investment Program of the National Electricity
Authority (1982/83-1984/85)
BAKOREN    -   The National Energy Board
BATUBARA   -   National Coal Entity
BWI        -   Beca-Worley International of New Zealand
DGEP       -   Directorate-General of Electric Power, Ministry of Mines
and Energy
GENZL      -   Geothermal Energy of New Zealand
GOI        -   Government of Indonesia
LNG        -   Liquified Natural Gas
LRMC       -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MME        -   Ministry of Mines and Energy
MONENCO    -   Montreal Engineering Company of Canada
PLN        -   National Electricity Authority
PERTAMINA  -   National Oil and Gas Company
REPELITA   -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TWELFTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:       Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the National
Electricity Authority
Amount:            $300.0 million equivalent (including capitalized front-
end fee)
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable rate.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Govern-
ment to PLN at an interest rate at least equivalent to that
of the Bank loan plus an appropriate administrative cost,
for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. The
Government will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project            The main objectives of the project are to diversify the
Description:    sources of electricity production mainly through the use
of geothermal energy and coal, improve the operational
efficiency of PLN's distribution networks, reduce PLN's
system losses, and provide a training and consultancy
program for the continued institutional development of
PLN. The project will consist of:
(a)  construction of a 110 (2 x 55) MW extension of the
Kamojang geothermal station in West Java and
substation equipment to interconnect with the
existing transmission system;
(b)  construction of the third 400 MW, coal-fired,
generating unit at the Suralaya thermal station in
West Java, and step-up substation extensions to
connect it with the 500 kV system under construction
including engineering of the third and fourth
generating units;
(c) distribution system improvements in Java, North
Sumatra and South Sulawesi;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(d) a mini-hydro development program in North Sumatra;
and
(e) training facilities and services to assist PLN's
manpower development program.
There are no unusual risks associated with this project.
The inherent risks associated with geothermal
developments, viz. of assured steam supply have been
minimized by extensive investigations, and adequate
advance production drilling.
Estimated Costs:/l                               Local      Foreign      Total
------  ($ millions)  -----
Kamojang Geothermal         11.0        69.3        80.3
Suralaya Unit 3             38.6       204.0       242.6
Distribution subproject  175.0         350.0       525.0
Mini-hydro Project           4.9         7.6        12.5
Training Program            12.4         8.7        21.1
Base Cost             241.9      639.6       881.5
Physical contingencies    24.2          59.5        83.7
Price contingencies         94.9       129.5       224.4
Total Project Cost  361.0         828.6    1,189.6
Interest during const-
truction
Bank loan                    -       127.7       127.7
Others                       -       149.2       149.2
Front-end fee on the
Bank loan                 -         4.4         4.4
Total Financing
Required           361.0    1,109.9    1,470.9
/1 Project costs are exempt from direct taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                       Local    Foreign         Total
------ ($ million) --------
Bank
Power XII                                  -        300.0       300.0
Power VI (1365-IND)                        -          2.3         2.3
ADB
Firm                                       -         69.5        69.5
Planned                                    -         26.0        26.0
Export Credit (Firm)                          -         182.0       182.0
Export Credit/Others/l (Planned)              -        253.2        253.2
GOI/PLN                                    361.0       276.9        637.9
Total                                  361.0    1,109.9    1,470.9
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank FY            1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
------------  ($ million) -------------
Annual           12.0   36.7  105.1   88.1   30.9   27.2
Cumulative       12.0   48.7  153.8  241.9  272.8  300.0
Economic Rate of Return (on the PLN Investment Program): 12%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4046-IND, dated November 3, 1982.
/1 "Others" include possible bilateral aid.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A TWELFTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $300.0 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Twelfth Power Project.  The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent
to Perusahaan Unum Listrik Negara (PLN), the Nhtional Electricity Authority,
at an interest rate at least equivalent to that of the Bank loan plus an
appropriate administrative cost, for 20 years including a grace period of
5 years. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government of
Indonesia (GOI). In addition to the Bank loan, the project would also
involve loans from Asian Development Bank and export credits (and other
possible bilateral aid) amounting to about $95 million and $435 million
respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, titled "Indonesia:  Financial Resources and Human Development in the
Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected social and economic
indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources,
significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About 20%
of the population live in urban areas in both Java and the Outer Islands, and
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Central Java
Pulp and Paper Engineering Project (No. P-3377-IND), circulated under
cover of R82-263, dated September 1, 1982, and approved by the Executive
Directors on September 21, 1982.



- 2 -
the current rate of urban population growth is over 4% p.a. The 1981 estimate
of GNP per capita is $520, which places Indonesia for the first time amongst
middle income countries./l
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        The economy has now been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over a
decade. This has been associated with rapid increases in public expenditures,
total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in the
period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The Government took
effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and foreign
private investment. However for the last decade the dominant external
influence has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in foreign
exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil and gas sector rose from
$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, when the current account
enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil receipts also provide about 70% of
Central Government receipts and have helped finance the sustained increase in
demand via the budget. In 1981/82 depressed international markets, combined
with continued rapid expansion in demand for imports, :Led to a $5 billion
turnaround in the current account, which registered a deficit of $2.5 billion.
However, the economy appears remarkably resilient in the face of this change:
growth was maintained at an estimated 8% in 1981, the reserve cover is more
than adequate and the country is highly creditworthy. The reason for this
macroeconomic resilience can in part be attributed to effective management of
the oil-related resource windfalls. Throughout the 19;70s the Government has
kept public expenditures broadly in line with medium-term receipts, through a
combination of temporary savings of windfall gains, reining in of recurrent
expenditures in years of relative shortage, and changing the extent to which
the external oil price increase is passed on to domestic consumers. The
pattern of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of
particular note has been the support for agriculture, ithrough investment in
infrastructure, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain
producer incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests
in 1980 and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high
growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth
has been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and distorted
incentives. Despite the demonstrated resilience of the macroeconomy to the
short-run developments in the oil market, the likely decline in the relative
importance of external oil receipts implies that Indonesia faces a need for
substantial structural change in the eighties. If the pace of development is
to be sustained the development of a strong and diversified nonoil production
and export base is essential. This will have to be supported by major
investments in new infrastructure - particularly in transportation and
electric power - if a rapidly modernizing production base is to be serviced.
/1 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



Incomes, Employment and Human Development
5.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic health
indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an increase
in life expectancy from 47 to 53./l These improvements should not, however,
mask the continued existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 50% of the
population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The core of
the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers
form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and where, for
most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural
wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests, it is likely
that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural incomes on
parts of the Outer Islands dependent on export crops have declined in the face
of the international recession.
6.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next decade.
In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and industry only
13%, while the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in 1971 to
32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employment in
the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by rising oil
incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a major source of
labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying the pattern of
productive growth. Open unemployment, at 4% in 1980, is not yet a serious
problem - it is concentrated amongst secondary school leavers waiting for high
income work; the key issues are of widespread underemployment (seen in short
working hours in some sectors) and low wages. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and the
encouragement of labor-intensive choice of techniques in production,
especially in the industrial sector.
7.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in
primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development
and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will
be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has been a
large expansion in facilities, notably at the level of the district and below,
but continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



- 4 -
raise standards. This will have to be complemented by a major expansion in
water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of mortality and
morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18% of the rural
and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /1 compared with
Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
Policy for Structural Change
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The maintenance of a high level and an improved structure of
investment will be crucial to this. This will involve substantial investment
by the public sector, especially in economic and social infrastructure,
complemented by improvements in the policy environment to provide an
appropriate incentive structure for private sector investment.
9.        In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a program
of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries, LNG, petro-
chemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining. This
will broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited employment
implications. Of greater importance for both employment and exports is the
encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing through an
improvement in the economic environment. The 1978 devaluation of 33% against
the US dollar significantly improved the profitability of labor-intensive
import substitution and export industries. Further more, the GOI has initi-
ated a general review of the trade regime, with a view to removing the
distortions caused by the wide variations in rates of effective production.
It has also embarked on a program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil
exports, including export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved
ports procedures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates
(duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers from significant domestic
constraints to its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden, especially
in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed
financial system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these constraints are
needed to create an environment conducive to private investment.
10.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem.  Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency of
energy consumption. This will require both price and investment measures. In
January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by over 60%, and this followed
a 40% increase in May 1980. This was a decisive step, but domestic prices are
still only about 55% of the average opportunity cost, and price relativities
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



- 5 -
between products diverge widely from those prevailing on the international
market. In addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and
private participation, in coal exploration and development, exploitation of
hydro and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level of
about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier.
This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new and the
rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and the dissemination of new
agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of
seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of further
expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered from
relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old, but GOI
has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting, necessitating
substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of distribution
and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority program for promoting
development in underpopulated regions, providing opportunities for landless
families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving economic and environmental
pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
12.       Structural adjustment will require a high investment rate, and an
expanding level of public services; it also involves adapting to a declining
relative level of oil rents. The problem of financing development is clearly
central. This will require a major increase in resource mobilization through
the public sector, through a combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum
products and increased nonoil taxes. In 1980 it is estimated that taxes on
the domestic economy were only 6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is
netted out, compared with well over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83
budget represents a significant effort to improve the situation, with a
halving in the annual level of the oil subsidy and a 15% budgeted increase in
nonoil taxes, but this will have to be sustained in following years. In
addition to public resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important
to encourage the growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of finan-
cialized savings, through an improved financial regime and the development of
a domestic capital market.
13.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, of which the
most important component will be in the form of medium- or long-term debt
flows. Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$16 billion at the end of 1981 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional
$11 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal



- 6 -
source of external capital, including Official Developmient Assistance, to
the country. During the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually
rapid transformation in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy
reliance on official concessional loans to increasing use of private,
nonconcessional and variable interest loans in the second half of the
decade. In 1981 private source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of
public debt. The fact that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the
beginning of the 1980s, and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt,
are clear indicators of how far the country has progressed. However, the
debt servicing capacity depends on commodity production rather than a broad
industrial base, and this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to
developments in international markets.  The implication is that debt
utilization should remain very prudent, and that there will be a continued
justification for official debt of long maturities in the 1980s. If the
measures to support structural adjustment are implemented then present
projections indicate that Indonesia's financing requiremuents can be met with
the debt service ratio remaining below 20% throughout the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
14.       As of September 30, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 75 Bank loans amounting to $4,938.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.1%. By the end of
1981, these ratios increased to around 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments
as of September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the
economy, including transportation, education, urban development, water
supply, rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing
(including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and
technical assistance.
15.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities.  Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Central Java
Pulp and Paper Engineering Project (No. P-3377-IND) circulated under
cover of R82-263, dated September 1, 1982, and approved by the Executive
Directors on September 21, 1982.



- 7 -
preinvestment studies and project execution.  Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growthi and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully irn
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to these
priorities.
16.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the sub-
sector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level.
17.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, sector work and
continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning.  Irrigation and tree
crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of the
importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
18.        For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance, which deteriorated rapidly in the
late 1970s. The disbursement ratio (the ratio of actual disbursements
during the fiscal year to cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of
the fiscal year) declined from about 26% in FY77 to about 13% in FY80.  The
Bank-wide average was 21.31% in FY80; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Nigeria were 21.2% and 17.31%, respectively, in the same year. While much of
this decline was merely a result of the rapid increase in commitments which
took place during this period (total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% in the FY77-79 period compared to a Bankwide increase of



- 8 -
83%), it also reflected increasing implementation difficulties. Many of the
problems appear to be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have
been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI
and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures
to identify general and project specific problems and work out corrective
measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in
September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint initia-
tives, GOI has taken several measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as a result of
these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an
increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million in
FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81, and $501.3 million in FY82, the last
implying a disbursement ratio of around 18%. While it is important that the
Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the second lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Seventh Nucleus Estates and
Smallholder, Third Transmigration, Twelfth Education and the Provincial Health
projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
Energy Resources
21.       Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including oil,
natural gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy. Oil and natural gas
now account for almost all of total commercial energy consumption. While
undiscovered oil reserves are estimated at 10-40 billion barrels, proven



-9-
resources are 9.5 billion barrels. As production capacity is unlikely to
inrease beyond 1.9 million barrels per day unless massive new reserves are
discovered, projected increases in domestic oil demand could rapidly reduce
the surplus available for export and have serious consequences for the
growth of the economy. GOI has therefore adopted a policy of promoting
alternative indigenous energy sources.
22.       The estimated natural gas reserve is 69 trillion cu ft (TCF) of
which 85% is non-associated and can be developed independently of oil.
However, reserves are generally located away from population and industrial
centers. The Arun field in North Sumatra has 17 TCF and Natuma, in the
South China Sea, 35 TCF. Production of natural gas reached 2,700 million cu
ft per day in 1979. Half of this was exported as LNG to Japan from Arun and
Badak. LNG production is expected to double by 1985 to 15 million tons per
year and to reach 28 million tons by 1990. Gas pipelines have been laid to
domestic steel and fertilizer factories and domestic consumption is expected
to increase by 15% every year.
23.       Indonesia's coal reserves are believed as high as 20 billion tons,
mostly located in West and South Sumatra and Kalimantan. While production is
currently about 300,000 tons per year, major increases are expected by GOI.
Coal will become the major source of fuel for the power sector as major
thermal plants come on line in the 1980s. Work started early in 1982 on a
3.2 million tons per year mine at Bukit Asam in South Sumatra, and on a 0.6
million ton per year mine at nearby Muara Tiga coal field.  Muara Tiga has
reserves to increase production to 2.8 million tons per year by 1990. These
two mines will supply coal to the Suralaya thermal power station which is
currently under construction in West Java; two 400 MW generating sets will
be in commercial operation there during 1985. A program to raise the
production at Ombilin in West Sumatra to 1.3 million tons per year by the
end of the decade is now under active consideration by GOI. In addition, in
1981, GOI entered into a number of production sharing agreements with
private foreign and Indonesian joint-venture companies for exploration and
exploitation of Kalimantan coal reserves. Exploration is now in progress.
24.       Indonesia's total hydroelectric resources are large but its
development is limited by its geographic distribution relative to demand.
The greatest potential (over 35%) lies in Irian Jaya where the demand is
less than one percent of total domestic demand, while Java, which accounts
for 80% of the current demand, has less than 10% of the total potential.
Existing hydroelectric (both PLN and non-PLN) installations aggregate to
1,312 MW; they are located mainly in Java (489 MW), Sumatra (612 MW), and
Sulawesi (181 MW). Schemes with an aggregate capacity of about 980 MW are
currently under construction. Other constraints which have limited
development of hydroelectric resources are (i) lack of a survey of potential
sites and (ii) availability of technical and administrative skills. To
overcome them Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN, the National Electricity
Authority) is now carrying out a basic systematic countrywide resource
survey which, by mid-1983, would prepare a reliable inventory of



- 10 -
hydroelectric sites and a detailed program for their investigation.
Further, in 1982, GOI/PLN entered into an innovative design-and-construct
turn key contract for the 180 MW Mrica hydroelectric project in Central
Java, financed mainly by commercial credits. If this venture results in
completion by the target date and at reasonable costs, this approach could
enable more rapid development of hydro resources in future.
25.       Surface manifestations of geothermal energy are found on all
islands except Kalimantan, but only a few have been investigated and only
one, Kamojang in West Java, has been delineated. It is believed that
potential reserves may approach 10,000 MW distributed as follows: Java -
5,500 MW: Sulawesi - 1,400 MW; Sumatra - 1,100 MW; other islands - 2,000 MW.
GOI, in collaboration with the Government of New Zealand, initiated develop-
ment of Kamojang field in 1976. The first 30 MW generating set will be in
commercial operation in December 1982. The proposed project will assist in
expanding the station by 110 MW. Last year, in an attempt to utilize the
skills of the private sector to hasten development of this renewable source,
PERTAMINA (the National Oil and Gas Company) entered into a joint-operation
contract with Union Geothermal, a subsidiary of Union OiL of California, for
development of the Salak field in West Java; up to 495 MW of capacity is
ultimately believed possible here. Exploration is in progress. GOI has
announced its intention to develop 900 MW of geothermal capacity by the end
of the decade and plans to lease other sites to successful bidders.
26.       Besides promoting the exploitation of alternative commercial
energy sources, GOI is also exploring the possibility of substituting
charcoal for kerosene, which is widely used for cooking and lighting.
Indonesia's forestry resources are abundant, and since they represent
renewable sources of energy, the country could derive considerable savings
if appropriate technologies were developed to facilitate the use of firewood
for energy.
Institutions
27.       The principal agency responsible for the implementation of GOI
policies in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME).
MME was established in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy
sector and control the three state enterprises responsible for the execution
of GOI policies in the energy subsectors - PERTAMINA for oil and gas, BATUBARA
for coal and PLN for electricity. Other ministries and agencies are also
involved in the sector: for example, Public Works deals with hydropower
resource surveys, Agriculture oversees forestry products, and the National
Atomic Energy Commission is responsible for nuclear development. In order
to ensure appropriate coordination of energy policy the President recently
established an inter-ministerial National Energy Board (BAKOREN) to oversee
sectoral development.
GOI Policies and Major Sector Issues
28.       The basic sector objectives as broadly outlined in Repelita III
are: (a) diversification of primary energy sources, with particular
emphasis on renewable sources; (b) improving the efficiency of energy



- 11 -
conversion and utilization; and (c) expanding research programs. The Bank
supports this strategy. During 1981, at the invitation of GOI, the Bank
carried out a detailed assessment of the Indonesian energy sector, identify-
ing policy options and analyzing investment priorities to provide a framework
for technical assistance and advice to GOI on institutional aspects. The
results have been incorporated in a report (No. 3543-IND dated November 1981)
entitled "Indonesia - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector." This report
confirms earlier finding that alternatives for oil must be developed quickly
for electricity generation, and recommends that this should be extended to
industry, transportation and households. It further points out that
subsidized oil prices, along with weak institutions, manpower shortages and a
lack of detailed energy sector planning remain major obstacles.
29.       Subsidized petroleum product prices have caused serious ldistortions
in the economy by failing to reflect the opportunity cost of these products.
The effects of this have been to favor the use of oil over other competing
fuels, the promotion of domestic consumption over exports and, because the
degree of subsidy between oil products is uneven, to distort demand between
individual petroleum products. The Bank has had a continuous dialogue with
GOI on the question and has highlighted the consequences of this policy in
its economic and sector work, particularly in the above Energy Sector Report.
During these discussions, GOI has expressed its intention eventually to
eliminate subsidies on domestic oil consumption, subject to maintaining the
ability of poorer consumers to satisfy their energy needs. This was most
recently reflected in the domestic oil prices increase of more than 60% in
January 1982, which followed a 40% increase in May 1980. While this was a
decisive step, domestic oil prices are still only about 55% of the average
opportunity cost and price relativities between products diverge widely from
those prevailing on the international market. For example, prices for avia-
tion fuel and regular gasoline are 123% and 127% of international levels,
whereas prices for kerosene and industrial diesel oil are 30% and 41% of
international levels. The Bank is currently carrying out further studies on
the welfare implications of eliminating energy subsidies, the demand for
energy by the household sector and other relevant subjects. On completion of
these studies the Bank will hold further discussions on the energy pricing
issue with GOI. It is expected that additional and significant further
increases in domestic oil prices will occur in the not too distant future.
30.       While GOI has developed an overall energy sector policy, no
detailed and cohesive energy sector development plan has yet been prepared
reflecting weaknesses of policy-making institutions and manpower shortages.
There is at present an energy planning unit within MME, but this unit is not
adequately staffed and does not enjoy sufficient authority to coordinate the
work among the major subsectors and evaluate proposals for assistance for
investments. To address this, the Bank is providing technical assistance
under the Fifth Technical Assistance Project (Credit 898-IND) to enable this
energy planning unit to assume appropriate sector planning functions including
data collection and analysis, long-term demand forecasts, alternative develop-
ment options, analysis of energy pricing policies and their implications, study



- 12 -
feasible demand management and conservation measures and monitor energy-
related programs. The needs of institutional strengthening and manpower
development are significantly high also in the other areas. In the power
subsector, the management information system development study financed
under the Seventh Power Project (Loan 1513-IND) is currently under way to
design a system which will assist the Directorate General of Electric Power
(DGEP) in ensuring that future power development programs are consistent with
national energy policy objectives. An assessment of long-term manpower
development and training needs for PLN has recently beerL completed except
for the senior staff and various recommendations are incorporated under the
proposed project (paras. 37 and 54). In the coal subsector, the needs to
strengthen BATUBARA, PT BUKIT ASAM (the company developing the Bukit Asam
field) and the Geological Survey Institute, in addition to the coal expertise
in Directorate General of Mines within MME, are particularly high, since it
is expected that coal will be a critical fuel to enable diversification of
energy sources in Indonesia in the next 10 to 15 years. A number of steps
designed to strengthen these institutions and develop manpower required have
been incorporated in the recent Bank-assisted coal subsector projects, Bukit
Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project (Loan 2079-IND) and
the Coal Exploration Engineering Project (Loan 2153-IND), and their progress
will be closely monitored.
31.       The magnitude of investments necessary to impLement GOI's policy
of energy diversification is large. The Bank estimates that the annual
investments in the sector will increase from about $1.27 billion in 1980 to
about $10 billion (at 1980 levels) in the year 2000. About half of these will
be directly in the electricity subsector. The Bank's lesnding strategy for the
energy sector that has emerged is to continue its support for the investment
programs in the electricity and coal subsectors with a focus on steps to
overcome the constraints of institutional weaknesses and manpower shortages.
The Electricity Subsector
32.       The electricity subsector is regulated by the M!1E through the DGEP.
The subsector comprises (a) PLN (discussed below in detail); (b) captive
plants installed by private parties for their own use; (c) some small muni-
cipal franchises; and (d) a small number of cooperatives which were set up to
provide electricity in remote rural areas. Until the mid seventies captive
plants were a significant factor with an aggregate capacity equal to that of
PLN. Their growth has dramatically declined since and is insignificant now.
PLN is clearly the dominant executive authority in the sector. It currently
has about 3,000 MW of installed generating capacity - 1,150 MW of steam (oil
fired), 800 MW of gas turbines, 500 MW oL diesels, and the balance in hydro-
electric installations. PLN also operates over 6,400 km of transmission lines
at 70 and 150 kV and about 50,000 km of distribution lines, the bulk of which
are in Java. About 2,000 km of 150 kV transmission lines under construction
are scheduled for completion this year. Java will havet a fully interconnected
grid at 150 kV by 1983. By 1984, a 500 kV system covering West and Central
Java will be commissioned; it will be extended to East Java by 1986.



- 13 -
33.       PLN.  PLN is a public corporation (Perum) constituted under
Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility for the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity and the planning, construction
and operation of electricity supply facilities.
34.       PLN is managed by a board of directors headed by a President
Director, who is appointed by the President and is accountable to the Minister
of Mines and Energy. The President Director has authority for all day-to-day
operations of PLN. The board currently includes five other directors with
functional responsibility for planning, construction, operations, finance and
administration. Operational responsibility devolves to 16 regions, and
responsibility for major construction to twelve project managers. Also
reporting to the board are three staff units responsible for (a) power
research; (b) education and training; and (c) management services, and an
audit unit, called the Corporation Inspectorate. The management services
and audit units are new units decreed by the Minister in 1981 which have not
yet become operational.
35.       PLN's Market.  A study to assess potential demand in Java which
presently accounts for about 80% of the electricity consumption was under-
taken in 1974-76 by consultants financed under an early power project
(Credit 399-IND). It has shown that the underlying demand is so large that
PLN's sales growth will be limited only by its ability to supply until about
1990; only thereafter would it be limited by growth of the market itself.
PLN's overall performance during the past 4 years, 1977/78 to 1981/82, has
been impressive. Its sales increased annually by an average of 22% and
performance indicators like the number of consumers per employee and the
energy sold per employee rose 50% in this period. Its ambitious customer
connection programs were fulfilled year after year and access to service
increased by about 50%. Standards of reliability of supply were improved.
Long waiting lists for new service connections assure a market for PLN which
in the next few years will be limited only by its capacity to expand its
systems. The present projections are that PLN's sales will grow at an average
rate of about 20% per year until the end of the decade.
36.       PLN's Long-term Development Plan.  PLN follows the practice of
preparing annually a long-term development plan to cover the projected
requirements of generation, transmission, distribution and other facilities.
The latest plan, covering the development period 1981/82 to 1993/94, shows
generating capacity increasing to about 19,000 MW. Coal-fired steam,
hydroelectric, and geothermal plants will register the greatest growth. These
sources, which presently account for only 18% of the total generating
capacity, will increase their share to over 70% by 1993/94. Oil accounted for
80% of PLN's generation in 1981/82 but its share is expected to decline to
about 20% in 1993/94. In view of projected demand this plan is fully
justified. The annual investment (at 1982 prices) would be about $2.0 billion
in 1983/84 increasing gradually to about $2.5 billion by the end of the
decade.
37.       The main problems which PLN faces in implementing its development
plan are to: (a) reorganize and train its senior technical staff to



- 14 -
undertake engineering tasks to a greater extent; and (b) ensure adherence to
construction schedules of major generation and bulk transmission projects
where delays of even a few months could have serious repercussions. While the
requirements of training at skilled lower levels have been assessed and can be
tackled by expanding training centers and improving training techniques (this
will be supported under this project), the training needs of senior technical
staff, who lack certain skills in planning, design, project management and
operation of larger projects in recent years, must be urgently identified.
During negotiations, an agreement was reached that PLN would prepare by
December 31, 1983 an adequate training program for its senior technical staff
(including, as may be appropriate, training assistance provided by or in
overseas electricity companies) and promptly thereafter initiate said training
program in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Project
Agreement). On the second issue, a major constraint has been procurement
policies. To address this, an agreement was reached that PLN would dis-
continue its system of preparing joint bid evaluation reports by PLN and its
consultants (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement). This approach made
it impossible to assign responsibility for imperfections and is seen as a
significant cause of delays in approval of contract awards. It is expected
that PLN would also prepare an action plan no later than January 1984 to
improve the efficiency of procurement administration and implement such a plan
in consultation with the Bank.
38.        PLN's Financial Results.  Coincident with PLN, incorporation in
1972, measures were set in hand with the support of the Bank Group to
establish a sound financial basis for the organization and eliminate the
operating losses which were then being incurred. This was achieved by 1976.
Since then, PLN's growth has been impressive: energy sales increased from
2,800 GWh in 1975/76, to 7,800 GWh in 1981/82, and capital expenditure grew
from under Rp 200 billion to over Rp 700 billion in the same period. However,
tariffs remained unchanged from 1976/77 through 1979/80 and earnings and rates
of return were negligible until 1980/81. In the period 1975/76 through
1981/82 PLN financed 16% of its capital program, mainly from depreciation
retentions and customer connection contributions; borrowing accounted for 24%
of the program, but the major source of funding was the GOI, which provided
60% of the program by way of equity contributions. GOI also subsidized PLN's
fuel costs, which are currently about 50% of international levels. As a
result of this mix of funding, PLN's debt:equity ratio is still quite low at
21:79.  Its latest balance sheet shows a healthy current ratio of 4.5 and
substantial liquidity. The main financial issues currently facing the
corporation are the level of power prices and PLN's capitalization policy.
39.        Prices.  In 1979, GOI and PLN agreed that tariffs for electricity
should reflect long-run marginal costs (LRMC) as closely as possible.
Although some progress has been made in structuring electric rates according
to economic pricing principles, the average level is still about 30% below the
LRMC of the latest development program. This is of particular significance



- 15 -
to PLN because of the risk of eventual over-investment in new facilities if
electricity demand continues to be distorted by artificially low prices. In
view of this, and considering the importance of rational energy pricing
generally to Indonesia's economic planning and the agreement already reached
with GOI as to the undesirability of perpetuating energy subsidies, electric
rates should be raised to the level of LRMC as soon as possible. Experience
of rate increases effected in the recent past suggests that this could be
accomplished by April 1985, the beginning of PLN's financial year 1985/86, and
such is implicit on the agreements reached with GOI/PLN on the financial
performance to be achieved by PLN in the medium term (para. 41).
40.       Capitalization.  The attainment and maintenance of tariff levels at
LRMC would set a parameter to PLN's internal cash generation capability.
Furthermore, the size of PLN's planned capital expenditures, and budgetary
constraints facing GOI in the near term, suggest that it would be imprudent
for PLN to count on continuing to receive such a large proportion of its
funding in the form of GOI equity as it has done in the past. But PLN is
currently well placed to increase its level of borrowing. Its balance sheet
is sound and given the low risk inherent in its near-term investments,
undertaken at such an early stage of the country's power development, PLN
should be attractive to lenders both inside and outside Indonesia.. Therefore,
its near-term objective should be to secure a significantly higher degree of
leverage in its financing plan by increasing its long-term borrowing. A
debt:equity ratio of 40:60 appears easily supportable even on quite rigorous
assumptions as to terms of borrowing, and the Bank has therefore recommended
to GOI and PLN that they should consider increasing PLN's leverage to this
level. GOI is examining this recommendation in more depth, in order to define
a capitalization policy for PLN and help the corporation prepare a financing
plan.
41.       Future Financial Performance.  After financial recovery in 1976, PLN
agreed with the Bank to adopt cash generation targets /1 as a measure of
financial performance. The covenanted target was 30%, to be achieved by
1985/86 and thereafter. Interim indicative targets for 1979/80, 1980/81 and
1981/82 (12% each year) have been comfortably achieved. However, the higher
levels of capital expenditure envisioned in the latest development program
requires an average tariff substantially in excess of LRMC to meet the
covenanted level of cash generation in 1985/86. Therefore, it was agreed with
PLN that the targets to be achieved in 1985/86 and thereafter be revised to
the level of not less than 20% (Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
Interim indicative targets for 1982/83 through 1984/85 were also revised to
10%. In addition, to preserve the stability of cash flow and facilitate
/1 The percentage of capital expenditures for the target year plus the two
preceding years covered by its net revenue plus depreciation retentions
less debt service for the same three years.



- 16 -
steady progress towards the pricing objectives, it was also agreed that in the
event of slippage of capital expenditures from the development program level,
the cash generation percentage target for the years affected would be corres-
pondingly adjusted upwards, and vice versa. These targets are consistent with
the adoption of LRMC electricity pricing by 1985/86. The cash generation
covenants under the earlier power projects will also be amended with respect
to the target levels in order to be consistent with the levels agreed under
this project.
42.       The Bank has suggested that a rate of return approach would now be a
more appropriate measure of PLN's financial performance, but COI does not wish
to reformulate the corporation's financial objectives until it has completed
its study on PLN's capitalization (para. 40). The Bank will accordingly
pursue the suggestion over the near future. The objectives now sought for PLN
and expressed in terms of the cash generation targets described above
represent a positive rate of return on operating assets for all years of the
forecast (through 1989), rising from 3% in the current year to 15% by the end
of the decade.
43.       If PLN adopts the capitalization policy recommended at para. 40, its
debt:equity ratio would approach 50:50 by the end of the decade. Existing
covenants binding PLN to a maximum debt:equity of 60:40 and a minimum debt
service coverage of 1.3 before incurring additional debt would be repeated
under the proposed loan. The recommended financing policy will substantially
reduce the funding expected from GOI and initiate a declining trend; annual
requirements could be expected to fall from around Rp 700 billion in 1982/83
to Rp 300 billion by the end of the decade.
44.       PLN's Performance Under Previous Bank Group Lending.  The Bank Group
has provided $1,290 million through 11 different loans and credits for power
generation/distribution facilitie.s in and around Jakarta and in West and
Central Java. Specifically, four distribution projects (Credits 165-IND and
334-IND, and Loans 1259-IND and 2056-IND) have been approved for the
rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution facilities in the Greater
Jakarta area and seven power generation projects (Credit 399-IND, and Loans
1127-IND, 1365-IND, 1513-IND, 1708-IND, 1872-IND and 1950-IND) in West and
Central Java have been undertaken. Past loans and credits also provided funds
for various consulting services for training, managemenit studies, demand
studies and feasibility studies.
45.       Out of the eleven projects five have been completed, one is nearing
completion, and five are in the early stages of construction. While PLN's
performance in implementing these projects was uneven at first, there was
significant improvement later. The earlier distribution projects (Credits
165-IND and 334-IND) were completed more than three years behind schedule. A
Project Performance Audit Report on these two projects, wlhich was issued in
November 1979, concluded that despite the delay in project completion (which
in large measure was attributed to the unfamiliarity of the Bank and the
borrower/beneficiary with each other's procedures), the projects made
possible a greater reliability of supply and many institutional and



- 17 -
operational improvements. The lessons learnt were: (i) the importance of
timely appointment of consultants; (ii) problems in acquisition of land and
rights of way; and (iii) the difficulties of changing from old to newer power
systems standards, e.g., higher voltages. In generation projects, the
earliest project (Credit 399-IND) covering the first and second units at Muara
Karang was completed about two years late; the next (Loan 1127-IND) for the
third unit, less than one year late. A completion report on these two
projects has been prepared.
46.       Implementation however has improved over the last year.  Physical
progress of construction of Saguling hydro-electric project (Loan 1950-IND)
which was slow at start has improved considerably and completion is expected
close to the original target date. Good progress has been made on procurement
under Loan 2056-IND - the most recent - with contracts for about 87% of the
loan amount having been approved within 6 months of loan effectiveness.
However, the Muara Karang extensions (1365-IND) have just been completed over
a year late. The Semarang project (Loan 1513-IND) is well over a year behind
appraisal schedule, and both projects at Suralaya (Loans 1708-IND and
1872-IND) are also a year behind the original program. The major constraint
which PLN currently faces is lack of experience of senior technical staff in
planning, designing and implementing larger projects in recent years, and
procurement administration. As discussed in para. 37, these issues will be
addressed under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The project comprises several distinct, but integral, components
of PLN's latest investment program. The project was appraised in February
1982 and negotiations were held in Washington in October 1982. The Indonesian
delegation was led by Mr. Samaun Samadikun, Director General of Electric
Power. Supplementary data are given in Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 4046-IND) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
48.       In line with GOI energy policy, outlined in para. 28, the specific
objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) diversify the sources of
electricity production mainly through use of geothermal energy and coal and to
a limited extent by use of mini-hydro resources; (b) improve efficiency of
PLN's distribution networks; (c) reduce PLN's system losses; and (d) provide a
training and consultancy services program for the continued institutional
development of PLN.
Project Description
49.       The project comprises the following five components:



- 18 -
(a)  construction of 110 (2 x 55) MW extension of the Kamojang
geothermal station in West Java and substation equipment to
interconnect with the existing transmission system;
(b) construction of the third 400 MW, coal-fired, generation unit
at the Suralaya thermal station in West Java, and step-up
substation extensions to connect it with the 500 kV system under
construction, including engineering services for the third and
fourth generating units;
(c)  distribution system improvements in Java, North Sumatra and
South Sulawesi;
(d) a mini-hydro development program in North Sumatra; and
(e)  training facilities and services to assist PLN's manpower
development program.
Evolution and Scope of the Project
50.       The Geothermal Component.  A bilateral grant from New Zealand in
1973 enabled the scientific studies and exploratory drilLing which delineated
the Kamojang geothermal field. New Zealand further assisted in the first
stage development of a 30 MW generating set which will be in operation by
December 1982. It has provided some technical training to the staff of
PERTAMINA in steam field technology and to PLN staff on the conventional power
station side. In December 1981, Geothermal Energy of New Zealand (GENZL), the
firm of consulting engineers who initiated the Kamojang development, prepared
the feasibility report on 110 MW extensions to be completed by the end of
1986. The report, which established the technical and economic soundness of
the project, also detailed the steam development and costs. Bank appraisal
was based on this report.
51.       The Suralaya Coal-fired Station.  The Suralaya site was chosen
through a study financed under the Bank's third power project (Credit 399-IND)
as the best location for the first major (2,800 MW) coal-fired thermal station
in Java. The first two 400 MW generating sets are currently under construc-
tion with financial assistance from the Bank's Eighth (Loan 1708-IND) and
Ninth (Loan 1872-IND) power projects. They will be in operation during 1985
along with the first phase of an all-Java 500 kV grid. Simultaneously, the
Bank through Loan 2079-IND is also assisting in the financing of an integrated
coal mining and transportation project which will bring coal from the Bukit
Asam and Muara Tiga mines in South Sumatra overland and across the Sunda
Strait to Suralaya. Studies carried out in 1981 by PLN's Planning Direc-
torate, which the Bank accepts, have clearly indicated the need and economic
advantage of constructing the third 400 MW generating set at Suralaya by
mid-1986 and the fourth 400 MW generating unit by 1988. Adequate coal is
expected to be available by that time from the Bukit Asam and Muara Tiga mines
together. BAKOREN approved the construction of the third and fourth 400 MW
coal-fired generating units at Suralaya in January 1982. The Montreal
Engineering Company of Canada (MONENCO) has been a technical advisor to PLN
on the Suralaya project from its inception.



- 19 -
52.        The Distribution Component.  The distribution sub-project has
evolved from a study by Beca Worley International (BWI) of New Zealand, using
funds out of the Sixth Power Loan (1365-IND). IWI has reviewed: (a) the
adequacy of PLN's transmission and distribution programs until 1987 to match
ongoing programs of construction of new generating facilities; and (b)
measures to augment these systems with due emphasis on economy and efficiency.
The study was carried out in Java, North Sumatra and South Sulawesi which
presently account for 90% of PLN's market. BWI's final report was submitted
in April 1982. It constitutes a sound basis for planning PLN's distribution
development program. During 1981/82 GOI authorized the PLN's Accelerated
Investment Program (AIP) of about $1.4 billion to cover a three-year period
from 1982/83 to 1984/85. The distribution component of the AIP in this period
accounts for about $829 million but it primarily covered expansion of PLN's
distribution networks to attract industry to rural areas and to permit
development of viable rural electrification projects. This left uncovered
schemes outlined by BWI costing about $380 million, with a foreign component
of about $260 million, some of which are required with a high priority to
significantly reduce high system losses and to improve operational efficiency
of PLN's distribution systems; these matters are as equally important as the
rapid extension of service. The Bank's approach in this situation has been to
include $100 million of the proposed loan for the project as a distribution
development fund (rather than a geographically described project component) to
purchase urgently needed equipment for these purposes out of an agreed list.
It will aim at reducing distribution losses by a further five percent by 1986.
53.        Mini-Hydro Component.  The mini-hydro component provides for design
and construction by 1985 of 8 mini-hydro stations with an aggregate installed
capacity of about 7 MW and emerged from a survey of mini-hydro potential of
the western half of North Sumatra carried out in 1981 by BWI of New Zealand
with Indonesian counterparts. The sites are all located within 4 km of exist-
ing roads and not more than 20 km from population centers requiring electri-
city. They have similar hydrological and topographical characteristics and
could be developed using standardized generating sets of 250 and 750 kW, oper-
ating under heads of 15 m, and can be connected to the 20 kV distribution
network being constructed as part of the AIP. Standardization would reduce
design and construction costs and interconnection into the 20 kV system fed by
diesel installations would improve the overall economy of these projects. It
is also expected to speed up further development programs in this important
field. PLN has decided to follow this approach for its future mini-hydro
programs. Six (750 kW) schemes employing nine 750 kW generating units
(6.8 MW) have been finalized. Reports on their locations, hydrology, geolo-
gical assessment, conceptual designs, costs and economic justification have
been forwarded to the Bank. The remaining two schemes for installation of
200 kW generating sets will be finalized shortly.
54.        The Training Component.  PLN has carried out a manpower study with
the help of Electricite de France to establish needs during the rest of the
decade. To meet these needs at the middle and lower skilled level-s five new
training centers have to be established in addition to the six currently in



- 20 -
operation. The project will provide: (a) equipment and materials to create
about 875 new training places; (b) technical assistance of about 30
man-years in strengthening personnel management and launching courses at the
new centers; and (c) overseas fellowships for selected middle and upper
level managers to develop the personnel function in PLN.
Implementation of the Project
55.       PLN will implement the project with the assistance of qualified
consultants. GENZL has been selected to assist in the Kamojang geothermal
extension project, MONENCO has been selected to assist in the Suralaya
sub-project, and BWI has been selected to assist with the distribution and
mini-hydro components. The Bank has agreed to these selections. The GENZL
contract involves about 765 man-months at an estimated average man-month
cost, inclusive of basic salary, overheads and fees, international travel
and overseas allowances, of $8,600. The MONENCO contract is for 2,150
man-months at a corresponding man-month cost of $10,000. The two BWI
contracts mentioned above involve a total of about 300 man-months, at an
average cost of $8,100. It was agreed that PLN would ccntinue to employ
adequate qualified consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank during the entire implementation period of the respective project
components and that additionally, for the distribution component, the
consultant's contract would provide for monitoring and reporting on the loss
reduction and operational efficiency improvement schemes in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Section 2.02 of the draft Project
Agreement). PLN also requires consultants to implement the training project
component. A short list of experts has been drawn up in consultation with
the Bank and proposals have been invited on agreed terms of reference. The
work is therefore expected to commence expeditiously.
56.       PERTAMINA (National Oil and Gas Company) and PLN will be separately
responsible for the steam developments and power station components of the
Kamojang geothermal project. PERTAMINA is obligated to develop geothermal
steam and sell it to PLN under the Presidential Decree of June 1, 1981.
While the Bank feels that over time this institutional pattern could be
improved through a unified agency responsible solely for geothermal work, it
has agreed that the present arrangement is satisfactory for this project.
However, GOI has agreed that by April 1, 1987, it would complete a study for
the Bank's review on possible institutional and organizational improvements
to establish the most efficient long-term development of geothermal energy
based on experiences at Kamojang and other geothermal sites. PERTAMINA has
employed consultants, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for
the specialized geophysical and geological work required for steam
development at Kamojang and long-term training, and it will continue to
employ them or others during the construction of the project. GOI has also
agreed that it would ensure that PERTAMINA: (a) prepares and adheres to a
program of steam field drilling and development adequate to provide steam at
Kamojang for not less than 105 MW by August 1983 and not less than 140 MW by
April 1984; and (b) will allocate all funds, as and when needed, for



- 21 -
financing and timely completion of the work program referred to above
(Section 3.03(a) and (b) respectively of the draft Loan Agreement). It was
also agreed that GOI will take all necessary action to make available in
time all such land and rights to such land as shall be required at Kamojang
and to inform the Bank in a timely manner that this has been done (Section
3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Furthermore, in order to be assured of
adequate steam supply for the Kamojang geothermal power plant, achievement of
sufficient steam production for not less than 105 MW (equivalent to 75% of
total steam production required for 140 MW), would be a condition of
disbursement against equipment and material for Kamojang generating units
(Schedule 1, para. 4(2) of the draft Loan Agreement). Once this level is
achieved, obtaining the remaining 25% of steam required is almost certain.
Finally, a sales contract for steam based on the principle of cost plus
reasonable return would be signed between PERTAMINA and PLN not later than
six months before commissioning of the Kamojang generating Unit II, expected
in April 1986.
Costs and Financing
570       Total project costs are estimated at $1,189.6 million excluding
interest during construction, and the front-end fee on the proposed Bank loan.
Of this $828.6 million (70%) is in foreign exchange. The total financing
requirements, including the interest during construction and the capitalized
front-end fee, is estimated at $1,470.9. The proposed Bank loan of
$300.0 million, including the capitalized front-end fee, would cover about 20%
of total financing requirements. Basic costs have been determined from
construction costs for ongoing projects and are at end-1982 levels. Physical
contingencies of 5-10% have been allowed for. Price contingencies were
estimated as follows: on foreign costs at 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0%
for 1985 and 6% for 1986 and thereafter; and on local cost at 12% for 1983 and
10% for 1984 and thereafter. In addition to the Bank loan the foreign
exchange financing requirements of $1,109.9 million is expected to be met by
$95.5 million from the Asian Development Bank, $435.2 million from export
credits and other possible bilateral sources, $2.3 million from the Sixth
Power Loan (1365-IND) (this will cover consultant work) and $276.9 million
from government resources (for interest during construction). $69.5 million
out of $95.5 million of ADB loans has already been negotiated and arrangements
to obtain $182 million of export credits for the boiler and generator for
Suralaya Unit III are well advanced. Any shortfall in foreign exchange
financing will be met by GOI/PLN. Furthermore, the entire local cost will be
financed by GOI/PLN. The proposed Bank loan would be to GOI which will onlend
the proceeds to PLN at an interest rate at least equivalent to that of the
Bank loan plus an appropriate administrative cost, for 20 years including a
grace period of 5 years. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by GOI.
Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). About $6.0 million
of engineering costs on Suralaya sub-project (expected to be incurred since
July 1982) is proposed to be retroactively financed under this loan.



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       All equipment and materials to be financed through the proposed loan
will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines. As some participation by Indonesian manufacturers is
likely a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price, or prevailing import duties,
whichever is lower, will be applicable. The contracts for electro--mechanical
equipment and associated civil works for Suralaya Unit III, which will be
financed from export credit and GOI/PLN own sources respectively, will need to
be negotiated with the original suppliers and contractors for the first two
Suralaya units on the basis of their successful bids through ICB under the
Eighth Power Loan (1708-IND) to meet a mid-1986 commissioning target. This
procedure is considered optimal, since the contracts involved are repetitive
and need to be finalized urgently in order to achieve the commissioning target
date of mid-1986. However, to provide for the contingency that negotiations
with the suppliers/contractors would be unduly prolonged or do not result in
reasonable prices, preparation has been made to invite tenders for these
contracts. In this event commissioning of Unit III would be delayed to April
1987. The project implementation program and cost estimate provide for this.
Other equipment and material possibly financed by export credits will be
procured through efficient procedures ensuring competitive prices. The civil
works local contracts to be financed by GOI/PLN will be procured through local
procedures. Consultant services have been, or will be, procured in accordance
with Bank Guidelines on the use of consultants.
59.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against the following items: (a)
equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods, 100% of
the ex-factory cost (excluding any identifiable tax) for locally manufactured
goods and 65% of the local expenditures for goods imported and locally
procured; and (b) consultants services - 100% of expenditures.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would substantially increase PLN's resources of firm
energy from nonoil sources by about 2,850 GWh annually by end 1986. The
distribution component would enable losses to be reduced from 21% at present
to about 16% by end 1985, apart from its other benefits of imprcved opera-
tional efficiency. While the impact of the mini-hydro component on PLN's
total sales would be small, this pilot project promises a greater accelera-
tion in future development of a renewable resource, especially important for
rural areas. The training and consultancy programs will considerably
strengthen PLN's manpower development and its institutional growth.
61.       In view of the composite nature of the project a separate calcula-
tion of the benefits of each component was not made. It was considered more
appropriate in the case of this project to calculate the economic rate of
return of the entire investment program of PLN, as its components are deter-
mined on the basis of least-cost analysis techniques. The rate of return of
the 10 year time slice of the program is 12%.



- 23 -
62.       There are no unusual technical risks for the proposed project since
two of the major project components, viz. Kamojang and Suralaya, are
extensions at already developed sites, and the other, viz. the distribution
and the mini-hydro component, involve conventional/standard equipment. The
only risks of any significance to the project are those of developing and
sustaining adequate quantities of steam at Kamojang geothermal field. These
are minimal, however, because of the extensive investigations carried out over
a long period and the fact that the 18 wells drilled so far have yielded
outputs well above normal for a geothermal field and adequate steam capacity
would have been developed by the time contracts are placed for the generating
sets. There is, of course, some risk of implementation delays. To counter
them action has been taken by appointing consultants in advance and they
started work in June 1982 to schedules which will be closely monitored by PLN
and the Bank. Further, measures for reorganization of procurement and
training proposed under the project, should also reduce these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PERUSAHAAN UMUM LISTRIK
NEGARA, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
64.       The special features of the Loan and Project Agreements are referred
to in Section III of Annex III. A condition of effectiveness of the Loan
(para. 57) is that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf of
the Borrower and PLN. Special conditions of disbursements against equipment
and materials for the Kamojang geothermal power units will be the achievement
of sufficient steam production by PERTAMINA (para. 56).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 22, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-24-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                         REFERENCE GROUFS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/a
TOTAL            1919.3                                             MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOKE
AGRICULTURAL      316.5                    1960  lb    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GMP PER CAPITA (US$)                         80.0        140.0            430.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            124.7        121.9            225.4             448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       94680.0    116143.0           146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        14.6         17.1             20.2               17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                    216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                      376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                              49.3         60.5             74.6             158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           355.9        378.8            452.4             355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                40.7         44.0             40.1              36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                                56.2         53.4             56.9              59,7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          3.1          2.5              3.1                3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     2.1          2.0              2.3               2.0                      2.3
URBAN                                     3.7          3.6              4.0               3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            46.8         40.7             35.3              29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            24.5         17.2             13.3               11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     2.8          2.7              2.2                2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)              ..        181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..          0.2             27.1              19.3                    36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                 93.0        102.0            113.0             108.1                   115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         86.3         93.9             101.7/c            97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 38.2         42.4             44.8/c            56.9                    54.4
OF WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               5.6          6.2              6.67T            20.0                    13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            22.9         16.8             11.3              10.9                     6.7
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)           41.2         47.3             53.1              57.8                    59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 149.9        120.9             92.7             889.1                    63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      *-          3.0             12.0/d            32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                                 10.0             35.07            70.7                    51.9
RURAL                                      *-          1.0              6.07o            22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..         12.0             15.0/e            18.1                    37.7
URBAN                                      ..         50.0             60.O7            72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                      ..          4.0              5.07             4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               46778.7      26498.5           13674.6            3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            4517.0       7672.8           8871.6            4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  1360.3      1644.6            1609.9/d          1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                                  251.8            ..            699.o07           301.3                   651.6
RURAL                                      ..           ..           3166.8/d          5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                  ..           ..             22.4/                ..                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     4.4          4.8
URBAN                                     4.9          5.3
RURAL                                     4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUtMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                      ..          1.5
URBAN                                      ..          1.6
RURAL                                      ..          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
URBAN                                      *-           .
RURAL                                      ..           .



ANNEX I
- 25-                                        Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                     71.0         78.0             94.0             97.4                    96.2
MALE                      86.0        83.0            100.0             101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0        73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      6.0         16.0            22.0              53.0                    37.6
MALE                      10.0        21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0        11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)       20.4         22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               38.8         28.9             37.2             37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                              14.0         13.1             17.0             20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            39.0         56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              1.1          2.1              3.5/c            1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0            41.9              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              8.6              3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                      11.0           ..             17.7/d           16.4                    53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA       2.8           ..              0.877            3.6                     2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34791.4      41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.8         30.9            29.3              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  75.0         66.0             58.0             70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.0         10.0            12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    36.7         35.4             35.9             40.0                    38.5
MALE                                     54.2         49.5             51.0             51.8                    50.5
FEMALE                                   20.0         21.6             20.9             23.8                    26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                   1.2          1.3              1.2               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           ..             23.5/d             ..                      .-
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS         ..           ..             49.47.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           ..              6.6/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           ..             14.47*
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            136.0            133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                     ..          ..            112.0            111.5                   155.1
ESTIMATED RLELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0               ..                  178.2
RURAL                                     ..          ..             98.0               ..                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0             43.8                    24.4
RURAL                                    ..           ..             51.0             51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithlaetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unleaa otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



ANEX I
- 26-                                                                     Page 3of 5pages
DEF:N:ITONS iF SOChoo INDICATORS
etefeas. racafol succor toe oder  otIf  otid    tod-tasor-de, sod rhr-trorire             Iaters r off!rerrraeratite
Therefarcoo   groopacre   t)ats...o ...       a   'Of throb!    roo-orya-d  (2) aoo--ey tortrhoaeh                        atNhtgtar-    ea--    atttoo              --., rrrRaIp
aortporh.rottstaro                   a   eofo   httdror    ot   h    .....a5  ofria   reort   h odvrr  daood   -ItI a.t ..oio.  itty1  ot  o
ot!- Ttal  -if-r  Ion   ti1irlso     Isod  -raad Irlorso-              a;1979II- dot.-tho..sdtoa    dfoded bf their  -rprro    uhtb  oftotaleo
Ug tiltorsi1 - tEtirt-      o  egriroltrosi  --eo-d  -rep-roilo  or peo-tl                                   iei   oyhlrsdptaestrlcd tp-r1tubd tofa   o    e
GNf ff5 CAPIpo 70S$) - Gt?  Portrt    at   aeo   .tetsrktpto,rt -d-IIi rare  ar  to  ioiird    itt_a  'ryrI, .Iooo.hraoho
o"I'rd by ss   oor  too hsto  -t  -ino   ato Aetat (11978-S   h-etal  196.aissos ertr   o                                                           "aIsert   stsfyo  hro  tra   (te   ya
ENERGY CONfUKfTfIhN PEP C  IPTa - t--s  r--tptito  of-rserl                     Iegy  rId                   015    apor    rs   hoapirais  fotirde  ffeptors/aea1heiae
-tdfngigtt,petr-Ieo-.--it     goaatd hodor- .                    Irsrtgrot,h_roIelr-dr-                    tirshoap ai   tori I   .r..Ito-patlo.o-arooaia-d at-rrlo.
oritt iy   it k1l--tra  of tool eqi_oie_         e  raita;   9t 1970,..sd 1979                           rtta. paiLr   tospltalaar  t                         -1ida  i  rotd ot-
Tosat forpta -it fMid-Tea  (tti...o-oo) -0of J001y 1; 1960, 1970,.o tO 1980                          HOpUSING
deta.                                                                                                h--er iar  t   Iatfoarhoid)rer-.-e rehio-hoid)-oo.raoadia
sstrroooia;   960, 1970, -od i980Or-a.la.. th                                                               horstodtoeslf-             arorts
forolattia fo orar 2000  - Cirrelp..p ....l .. prjoroo   ar  btd ott 1980                   ta.fproeprrooI   l   .ho   o   tri.r..                          r   eoot  oa
totalpooaforh  age atd  -e  an  th-i   setlryat ,frli sptots                                        ia-ltrtaa. r-p-ri-oYip. Pelt.......O oo-rrst                              stIrtorr   sod
PrLit Iprstor   fo  eroity   aei-osr eaoftretioessso-                                        toiipfd   art
toe life  asraricoty  at Ifrob  rrrrroe~~Iorrh orr   e   aIs   Irif irrttipatrjr-                                  Ird ot   flatoo    ttl    ra,sdrts 
'Iroill,ao   .as              ..lr   ..p..or   ...hl  ...0  ... 7!'  reas.-~     - r-I-             CrrttstOetttaf    lrro                           r000   r teea
farI_ftrp asrordiogI to-rcoo iro aId poeti-sIt blatriog . reroterr.iyEDCT
-This  to aIhir-rt orI, after   attilioY aIta-  dar1-t  to                          pisary, athol-a          ~gr prtsitro  'oIrlly irrr   thldctad 6-11it
eieastd i  thsi  ha-e of she projttr   rtrreter    feapolto                                           irtet    it    r   ao   rsorteofra   s..o.. aI.
ret.t      y,20..' teoaII-adoIftt1-oreoorloaalasstf-oor an aars                                                                                                         111        -dproeptse    eaeotoo
etee eill herIsohad.                                                                                   rasit   o f 12 to it py-r  ft Iga; -orr-r-dr-  I...se   ar                --eeali
Porolsttoo at-lfy                                                                                           esided.
Per so  o.k -Mtd-pyrpo-            ro   per sq-rr  kilotseee   (100 h-otr-) of                       VI-alooirlla"Ieo1 Irproetre of  .e..tdary) - Voit- ra   ry. trt.ot
I-iaaa1  59068   10090 asd 1979         t dsi-ioitrafi  hottia , idrtt I, oroherP protrao hi hoprt   todePeed-
Per_    k.gtiiraledloIle' d  -oaho-  fotsriil Irst-d                                                   rlytrofas  departssttIfaa--dsry  tfsIie.rt o
Poroeoti Ag ..rrsre(.r..            e t..Chlidrt-  (0-11   er)   aoiogaa   i-                            prtsrf sod sa dsrp  1-oet  dastded by ti-r   o f oeahar   to the
Sipeaes),  asdeeriradf6f  prsroatdooar)as  ptrreosagrs oiefd-yeaopoor-                oorreepordioglaoe-lIs. ," -p.,di.g1_1.,
'lit-a  1960.1910. so   90dao                                                                         dl ..    tar-i fat    (terteIf   - liteae- dot   (ohio  to red sod ceise)
perpooaro   for 1950-60. 1960-70 ,sd1 970 -90.
Poroist-o  Gr-th tRe_ (rroa-t) -i-rhot- _too  t   -oth rate  of  -rsh-                  i           CONSUMfPTOrN
tato   for 19Ot-60. i960-t0o..ad 1970-8P.                                                         foeorCr   ertoor   ooatr        aooi    aetwta oo
Cr_d BIrth Rae- pe   ehoad   -A                   isa births Par- thorocd of aId-yea-socto    esta   it    ess;ar  ie  asiolrtte                                                 -a--eoed
Pop,at".      196.   197O,sa   180dat.IolftrysS
OrIeI Desth  ae(e  etousani) - i--ol d-art  Pot .......td  if aid-pea                                  tadto Raie -eo(e   hoad  ooato       l   oryas of  rrtaefor rsdto
rFp.,.  ot;1960.  1979. er         Id 08  Oas                                                          oodse..r..t rlo  arto                             0r rdoototse  ar    o
GIosiRr2-d-i-oit Aergooht iftdoaght-raa    .tillhIsr!o                                                    ItetdaaottidottratioataoeogtosIiaf di.
nfitfy rsre_; oao  ip fite-yrarI soerges roI",   io  19tII,  1970, atI 198.                             -is   ro-teiae ahoIiohd lireoIt.
ofblittht -I I             .-inolet rde-  -aistesfra-i-1atfssilyrateptoro.gorarbitoI raehotaaodPooaateroiiiroeffeeo
I Ih =,Ig fI.  Y~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~ptiisio..oredprsaittt roodtg oorod-ia .Ittaoetdte
todeo of Food Prodirttitpypoaitf    i196t-7rL.100) -  tr   f par lartatot                    Ota             oooL Att-d-re  e   C.pt  pe                a-    Po-d  it he oihc o
prodorti-roof al  fidosotr           Po. frdooioroi- r1d-tsaeaod feds-d                                rtrerdd,ioigeohryerit-                  olgastaorrdri-e.tte
is or osisodar pear trots-  ~~Cdtsdftie-  roos  rrlaar  goods  e.g. oraraed astlitls
tagi.os1 asa. g   pridira    rir-  as ighto; 1961-65, 1970. a-d 1980 data-                          htel. Labor Forr   ltth--ads) - EoiIcrs-Ily  rtrpeso   irooldtog
roarIgy  eiolo    f re  food sorti_sar _itoieit, tottp   Ot..tl                                         Itiorlg p      a Ifri   l  agaa    Orlisir bo                       -- rtooittlt-   r
prday     otlhesppteispirderetr                        -droo   irpo_t  las                           so- oPoal          1968. 19fh  aod 198P dale.
e_port.d Iteogatirssoik   Naot_ppli-or-ot.deao-Ia t-rd.se-to,                                          IeaarrtelPatlbrorrsiztotfoathrii
oo-eiefao  tod to food pecesofg. atd los-aio  di-tihsio    RerItr-                                     Arolr         eid-          P so   frs-tfoar.    ralo,hee ad..
7-    a      I _lstdor00  icd       0   thattri   artfr oAi   rl-fs j   s  pos-aao t-otsi  lato   Oortr   906,  9190 aod  19ff acts.
_i rd has  stota.iderfo~g  -elrot-e_te Irpror. ho-p  -sihos-                   g                    tdsr  (p--oof   -  abor Iorr_  loalta   _iori  i,eof--aorf
aad ea  dtit-brofott ofproait  ao               l   0to   yaro   forsart                                 sod eee              --to.oc0   000 ga  c-frrr        f         1tta   ih-  forte;
ho-ehold_troe.  19.61-65  197,9 .o  191  dali                                                            1968, 1970 atd 19tC daa.
Oolra-oos  orI al  -rotta        lalarhoSd ho17SD          roir  for  -.i-ii                           _errt8s   fOe.a             -asd frli poola li'       t if a>i"' ayrrrp-zi-ely
all .co.. .fS6O ...I   I-  grsofoalrttoyai -,,-aayoa0  rsioo-                 laf9t0, 1970.arndlt980daa.  Th-s-eor                                     -oroih tItt-ripati-ra--
pos    ro a  o   hr   1grSto  sh-Iod hr  _IoIea IPr            Ihr.   looIto-rfIoogg-eortt                                      o  ehr popo,tror  i-d  toot, ti    errd.  A
Wol   od  oty    1961-tO, 1800 sod 1977 dat,t  se5ta oo   foir
Peri_  pt I... it_ioop t Otis oial so.d p.t Pa-fetro    -pply if f-id do-
elord Irt.  tiaslo  -rd pl-e  Or got-  per dot. 19t 1-65. 19fI aod 19 77 Ost--                    LIsOif hIiORt..iTfON
lhtid)sael-4)0.lse Istr)rershoioatd - tisl deaths   arh-is tdi                                  Pe-t-ofag ifePisatIa-- torarih i,,sh  -itt;-)-   rasdyIihrsI
Life    .. itrrstfe t-o thiyhllai-  idstirsgeoaropar                  flrisiigtaflof--iastarrrap.lsroort                                                                 tro ioptoels
fofso forai t tote (rrtoso)-Ata    etso   tsaidriaps                                                    aiaa  fhoge Io rf  Itlla  0101   )Uh-y- II                 yl...    -ito   -otia
ofoa  a  tosrdhe   frto11960, 1970  -td 1980 data_                                                      Ohiltapoety   yr -            roa   is ohi  loz   r   Ir-a  haIII    hith a  -otls1
s.IrestIf fstrirrofo                     ai.).toltoo.ooelts                                              itiatlpdoiodepaatttsoottoritroto
heAt.      ai..   (of..oht,a ttita) ofh  aas-she  sras  so osd Oe                                       aftotashla.-
aaaeraopPlp)ooriodaatrrsE,dtioiaoeoororsoiteiroaet                                          dtsl50tlsto   ocetrs  Loilttrilaltrs    orrl
ofhirse taoa   poplaioo       rs   tp    rophl                                  es   I foRtie  if-1    p h-tyisoerp.   Othi- I   li   irt    a
fotei  o   asoOot  ostdto   sr  ta   tOorer    roaooara   h                               eolobhadroroer0   ihe  rs  o   loo   i  obat'ds 
letodara   so  eto   alttttt, -  esrtesPs    fta  hae    oro    ra                                    s i....ad....I..I. - _fir  Belie.....tolote       - foaty 6,yyp itof ,o (r -raro
~~                                                                                         aed total- Perrate~~~~-   M   -I1- I.   -    b  of piphlith-tr-to   ar. tt)hordsla
Os cia  hate  10  perod a dfspriyro~ioata  parr o   h., da   tot Oredttog- the           poor,
f-dl .oa...rotor_tdeioi
Ptasofteahyooss raoo    f oraioltel -ht  o  roral-i.     -O- -
ft.coirPl)ootIrao           sorrIfirordhP-rt-a-lsp- --a
it  Ohairrasprooot roosls ioro     ioreoo  0-I 9otolst  t li
ita  iietittai   ieoal,aoyotciostrrates  i  hseeort



- 27 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNF per Capita:  US$430 (1980)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                    Annual growth rate (%)
(million US$ at                               (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                          Actual                                     Projected
Indicator                              1980            1975    1976   1977   1978  1979        1980   1981   1982    1983    1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          70,024             5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9        5.3    9.7    7.8    7.3    7.3         7.4    7.4
Agriculture                      18,003            0.0    4.7       1.3     5.2    4.0    5.5       3.4    3.5      3.5     3.5     3.5
Industry                         29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2       5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0           9.0    9.0
Services                         22,794           10.1     5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                        48,976             6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8            7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                   15,176            14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   13.1   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                    21,365           -9.7    12.5   22.4       1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.3    8.2    13.6         1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                    15,494             7.9    8.1   22.2    15.6    13.9   13.6   18.5    7.2   13.4           3.2    0.5
Gross national savings             17,576          -19.7    12.0   33.3   -2.1    37.1   -2.1   -5.0    9.6    9.0            7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                             166     190    214      237     311    400      440    493    542       591    638
Exchange rate                                         415     415    415      442     623    625    625    625        625    625      625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                             Average annual increase (I)
(at current prices)                                     (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975    1980    1985   1990         1960-70      1970-75     1975-80      1980-85      1985-90
G:-oss domestic product        100     100     100     100     100     100          3.9          8.4          7.5          7.3         7.5
Agriculture                   54      47      32      26      22      17         2.7           4.1          4.1         3.5          3.5
Industry                     14      18      34      42       44      46         5.2          12.0         9.7          9.0          9.0
Services                     32       35      35      33      36      36         4.8           9.7          9.0         8.5          7.5
Consumption                  91      89       79      70      74      74         4.1           8.4          8.9         8.6          7.6
Gross investment               8      14      20      22      26      27         4.8          18.3         11.7        12.5          7.8
Exports of GNFS               13      13      23      31      23      18         3.6           9.2          8.7         3.7          3.2
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -22        -23    -19           3.2          22.1         14.0         8.7          4.9
Gross national savings         8       9      17      25      25      22         6.1          23.1         14.4         4.8          7.3
As S of GDP
1960            1970            1975            1980
FUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                              11.7            10.1            10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                          14.0             8.4             9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                    -2.3            +1.6            +7.1           +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                            n.a.            5.0            10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                              0.2             3.5             3.7             3.4
1960-70          1970-75             1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                 4.5               7.6                 6.9               7.3              7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                      2.4               5.1                 4.5               4.9              5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                   2.9             16.0                15.0              11.0             10.0
ICOR                                                       2.2               2.2                 3.1               3.4              3.8
MSarginal savings rate                                     0.30              0.48                0.30              0.18             0.26
Import elasticity                                           1.2              2.8                 1.9               1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
7b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
May 20, 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                              Page 5 of 5 pages
GNP per Capita:  US$430 (1980)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                  Estimate                       Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979      1980      1981       1982      1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                              10,861    11,353   17,494   22,245   21,878    21,882    30,108   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   17,593          161,420   22,869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,285           5,462    7,239    8,964    10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including net NFS)         -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,202    25,807  -31,886  -35,253  -38,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,318  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -586       -659     -975   -1,035    -1,100   -1,300   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                        175      -140    3,459    3,596   -1,324    -3,895   -1,778   -2,010   -1,397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203           -602   -1,034   -1,253   -1,650   -3,899
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -514       -772      -819      -973    -1,096   -1,307   -1,534   -1,801   -3,359
(b)  Other (net)                      -424       -501      -489      -386      -230        494       273       281       151      -548
5.  Capital grants                           66        46        52        76        67         100       100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467   -2,460    -4,397    -2,712   -3,163   -2,947    -8,749
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140       178        200        350       450       600    1,000
8. Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                     1,956    2,205      1,865    2,536    2,356        3,969     4,536     5,182     5,772    11,113
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1,548   -1,329        -953   -1,000    -1,361   -1,567   -1,872   -2,225   -4,924
(c)  Net disbursements                1,131       657       536    1,583      1,356      2,600     2,969     3,310     3,547     6,189
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       891   -1,261   -1,454          86        500       800        800       700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651          -708   -1,690   -2,736         840      1,097   -1,407   -1,397   -1,900         -440
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342        6,502      5,405     6,812     8,209    10,109    13,189
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports t NFS                         3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9       5.0        3.7       3.8       3.9       4.3       3.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                  -         -    6,906    10,787    10,798       9,101     9,908    11,305    13,205   17,285
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1       8.3        6.2       5.6       5.3       5.6       4.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                      1,956    2,205      1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                         442       484       433       679       802
Bilateral                                381       448       399       631       729
IDA                                       49        29        30        42        68
Other                                     12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,514     1,721     1,432     1,858     1,552
Official export credits                  218       271        61        25       154
IBRD                                     191       168       199       331       106
Other multilateral                        16        12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089     1,270     1,126     1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658    13,107   13,233   14,882    15,529
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482         5,783
Undisbursed debt                       4,475    5,839      7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                 1,262    2,062    2,101       1,772     1,974
Interest                               441       514       771       819       973
Payments as % exports /e                11.6      18.2      12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                      6.3       7.6       6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                        5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2       8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 20.5      18.7      19.1      19.0      15.6
Official - source                       23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                       10.4       8.6      11.1      10.0      10.7
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                  30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                 60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
Id  At end of period.                                                                                      East Asia and Pacific Programs
/e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                          August 24, 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-four Credits fully disbursed  559.3   491.5             -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea          -       7.8          1.4
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -       16.5        7.5
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                -       16.0        1.9
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension              -      30.0         1.6
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.0     -           7.6
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.5     -           1.3
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.0     -           4.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.0     -          19.8
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.0     -           6.2
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.0     -           4.7
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.0     -           2.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0     -           8.0
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0         -           3.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.5     -           7.0
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0     -           9.3
1365     1977   Sixth Power                               116.0     -          31.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0     -           4.5
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0     -           7.7
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.0     -          36.3
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.0     -           6.7
1472     1977   Second Population                          24.5     -          12.8
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.0     -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0     -          25.4
1513     1978   Seventh Power                              94.0     -          33.9
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                -      40.0         9.2
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0     -         115.2
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.0     -          17.5
827     1978   Rural Credit                                -      30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II          65.0     -          51.8
869     1979   Polytechnic                                 -      49.0        36.9



ANNEX II
- 30 -                     Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.0      -          52.0
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.0      -          28.5
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -       10.0         9.2
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.0      -          35.8
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.0      -          22.7
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             123.2      -          83.5
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0      -          10.9
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -       67.0       30.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -          89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0      -        104.1
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0      -          28.9
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -       12.0       10.3
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -          69.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -       45.0       36.3
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -       45.0       33.2
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -       42.0       40.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0      -          95.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV          42.0      -          35.8
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.0      -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0       28.1
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0      -          34.5
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0      -        224.9
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development            46.0      -         43.9
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0      -          44.1
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250.0      -        205.5
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0      -          19.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0      -          41.3
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.0      -         155.7
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0          -          53.3
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0      -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0      -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0      -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0     -         167.7
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0      -         100.0
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0      -          80.0
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.0      -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0      -          37.0
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0      -          70.0
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution |1    66.0          -          66.0
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1      -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering /l            25.0      -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Paper and Pul. /1              5.5      -           5.5
/1  Not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              4,611.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -162.60   -5.93
Total now outstanding                         4,449.00  925.87
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Amount repaid by third party          -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             4,447.97  925.87
Total undisbursed                             2,813.9   250.20   3,064.10
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                              Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year         Obligor               business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement             10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                 Textiles            2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles             2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia        Cable               2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism             11.0        -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement              5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles             2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan           Electronics         0.9        -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                  Devel. Fin. Co.       -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles            2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement              5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong         Cement                -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles            0.4        -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex               Textiles            1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                Textiles            0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera        Capital Market      4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries          Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas          Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0      5.0      53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market       4.0      0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                          118.8     18.0      136.8
Less; sold or repaid and cancelled                78.6      5.7       84.3
Total held by IFC                                 40.2      12.3      52.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   30.82       0.3       31.12



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                               6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                   10-14
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   14-16
Rural Development (946)                                                     16
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                   16-17
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                   17-20
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079 and 2153)                    20-22
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                    22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                        22-23
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                  23-24
Nutrition (1373)                                                            24
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                           24-25
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                              25
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                        25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     26-27
Ports (1337)                                                                27
Tourism (479)                                                                 27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                        28-29
Water Supply (1709)                                                            29
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



34            ~          ANNEX II
Page 6 of 2- oages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensivie changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate, mostly because of delays. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 94% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date.  This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was
expected to be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.



-35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighith Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has
mobilized additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction
supervision at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the
Madiun works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were 40% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 80% completed, but
land development is lagging. Feasibility studies of the ten small to medium
irrigation systems have been completed. The Situing Stage II system studies
and designs are completed, and construction was financed under Ln. 2118-IND
(Irrigation XVI). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 78% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implementation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by about two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved. The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved.  The GOI has decided to delay



- 36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
construction of the Batutegi Dam to serve the Way Sekamping system since other
dams on Java appear of higher priority. Downstream works will therefore be
restricted until dam construction starts to ensure an adequate rate of return.
The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and construction
financed in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND). Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were 35% appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subproject, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com-
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setback of nine months in the rest.
A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for tertiary
design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The project is
currently estimated to be completed by mid 1984, a delay of 18 months compared
to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is expected to be
completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years. It is expected
that there will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the
tertiaries for the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND)
which did not cater for the higher intensity of canals now adopted in all
systems. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 53% of appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System,-W. Java; drainage improvement in the Cisedane
irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and studies of
drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation areas; tidal
and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang and Mesuji
areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and detailed
designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang Agung of
S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased to 205,800
ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads improvement
are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985; a delay of
over two years over appraisal estimate. Studies are mostly completed; the
remaining are expected to be finalized by 1982. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 40% of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the
implementing agency should consider using the savings for procurement of
additional operation and maintenance equipment such as dredgers, dozers,
draglines, dump trucks and loaders. The equipment will be useful for
emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes damage
during the wet season. The latest project cost estimates indicate that $6-8
million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project. The
list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 59% of appraisal
estimate.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Maciun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. Works in the Madiun area
and the tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 72% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes (a) completion of Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation system
for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and nature reserve on an area of about
100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy services and training;
and studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of
the Toraut headworks and the first 2 Km of the main canal which commenced in
January 1981 were greatly delayed but the contractor has now agreed to work
to a revised program to be completed by May/June 1983. Award of Lwo ICB
contracts is behind appraisal schedule by 15-18 months. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1985 compared to March 1984 in
the appraisal estimate. GOI has commenced implementing the "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. The Bank
will review progress in late 1982 before finally agreeing with the GOI
proposal to finance US$1.1 million from the credit for the expanded National
Park as against US$0.7 million provided for the Nature Reserve. Four
studies included in the project should be completed by early 1983, present
progress is about 50%. Institutional support program will continue up to
June 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 60% of
appraisal estimate.



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 2? pages
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim an,d settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals was awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DGVRD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha; upgrade
operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation systems already
rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha private
estates (PTPs) tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholder leaf; training of extension
staff and tea growers, studies for marketing, diversification and BRI



- 39 -                     ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. The project still
suffers from weak management, loan collection is deteriorating and many
scattered borrowers make loan servicing difficult. Disbursement at the end
of June 1982 were about 70% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After a slow start which resulted in extension of the Closing Date
to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress since
mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982. In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shallow
wells (91% of revised target) have been established. The pasture develop-
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites. Rubber development is
almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
About 800 families have been settled to date and an estimted 3,000
of the proposed 30,000 families will be settled by the end of the next fiscal
year. Sufficient land has been mapped in Jambi province for 20,000 families
but half of these sites have been excluded from the project because they lie
in production forests.   No other areas in Jambi province are likely to be
suitable for large scale settlement and land has been identified in South
Sumatra for 10,000 families. Because of the importance of land identifica-
tion, about $50 million has been allocated from the Transmigration II
project for site selection and evaluation for the GOI program. Delays in
settlement and rehabilitation components have led to slow disbursement and
cost overruns and much remains to be done to ensure sustainable food crop
production. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 1.7% of
appraisal estimate. Agencies are better informed about the project than
they were previously and are working conscientiously. To circumvent
problems of land shortage and increasing implementation delays: (a)
settlement targets should be reduced to 20,000 families, (b) about
one-fourth of project funds should be allocated to mapping and consultancy
services; and (c) current disbursement rates should be maintained. To speed
implementation, the size of land clearing contracts should be reduced and
contracts should be tendered for each site as it is prepared.
Recommendations have also been made which



- 40 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
would permit action on Singkut rehabilitation and simplify procurement. To
improve incomes, actions should be taken to reinforce agricultural services
and introduce tree crops into existing and new communities. To accomplish
these objectives changes in the loan documents would be necessary.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the current planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler
houses and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus
estates have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber,
3,700 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets
for rubber planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. However, as there were start-up delays in
some smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be
completed on schedule, the Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 58% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastructure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target. Action has been taken to speed up the
lagging operations and the project is expected to be mostly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor. Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 ha replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will
probably have to be extended to June 30, 1985. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 30% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of June 19382 were about 55% of
appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 41 -                      Page 13 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 66%
of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted. Delays in road construction are
affecting project implementation and supervision, and measures to speed up
progress are under review. Training of field staff and smallholders will be
kept strictly practical; visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a
trainer/coordinator position at provincial level but working at the Project
Management Unit level is being considered. The creation of an internal audit
unit and timely recruitment of staff to deal with financial matters is
urgently required. Four studies, including a feasibility study, for an
eventual second project are nearing completion and after review by GOI will
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. There are no major problems
with this project, apart from the requirement to strengthen management and
the seriously delayed procurement of vehicles. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 101% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under
the project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are gener-
ally not satisfactory. Problems relate to lack of control of project manage-
ment in Head Office, Provincial Offices (PO) and Coconut Working Centers
(CWC) regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating
smallholders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance
standards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow
release of project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application
and disbursements. To improve control of field operations some restructur-
ing of the project in its scope and management structure is needed, by
reducing the project area and reorganizing the PO/CWC management system.
GOI agrees in principle with this recommendation and proposes to take
necessary action. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 19% of
appraisal estimate.



- 42 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber, oil
palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West Kalimantan
and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The
project has made a good start including the nurseries establishment, initial
planting for the smallholders in West Java, construction of some roads,
estates offices and smallholders' houses. Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were about 115% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was declared effective on July 23, 1982. The project
will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders development program
by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and coconuts), food crops and
house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku provinces with public sector
estates as implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will close on December 31, 1982. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) were behind
schedule and are now almost complete. Most of of the field and workshop
equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and contracts for
laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland vegetables) and for
Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agricultural information
centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension have been constructed, furnished and equipped. Two additional
centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction and will have to be financed
from another project after closing of this project. Extension materials are
being produced and distributed from the completed AICs. Loan proceeds are
expected to be almost fully disbursed at the closing of the project.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The targetted programs for construction, equipment procurement and
training have been achieved. Some additional activities in these fields
which are included in the follow-up project, the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 996-IND) are currently being undertaken. These are
expected to be completed within the revised closing date for the Loan of
December 31, 1982. Overall the project continues to make satisfactory
progress.



43 -                   ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Substantial progess has been made with the construction and reha-
bilitation program for the Rural Extension Centers and the Training and
Visits System is progressively gaining more strength. Contact farmers and
their associated farmers groups are responding to the two-weekly meetings
with the field extension workers. Staff shortages in the field extension
workers and extension subject matter specialists cadres and shortages of
motor cycles for field staff are continuing problems; also, the strengthen-
ing of training in extension packages in nonrice crops needs early actions.
The project unit is aware of these deficiencies and steps are expected to be
taken to address the problems; although the staff shortfall may continue
into the next fiscal year. A unified extension system embracing other
subsectors has not yet begun to function although keen interest in this
approach is evident in some Provinces and could form the basis for
developing a workable system. Overall, the project is making satisfactory
progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment (AARD)
for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected. A contract for consultancy services has been executed between AARD
and the International Agricultural Development service.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds :  $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided on and land



ANNEX II
44 -                      Page 16 of 29 pages
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents for the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly. The first supervision mission has been
recently fielded.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance discerned
during the October 1981 supervision has continued. Activity targets are now
being substantially met with the exception of the Small Scale Industries (SSI)
and Village Health Components. Firm recommendations have been given to
improve performance of these two components which should yield early,
positive results. If, however, results are not forthcoming, firm steps should
be taken either to terminate them or simplify their objectives and scope.
Project performance rating has been upgraded to 2.2.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's small
credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which acczount for about a
third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory experience with
this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a nationwide SSE develop-
ment project which is supported by the Second Small Enterprise Development
Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is fully disbursed.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development, training in term
lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services, the
project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension of the
project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is rapidly
catching up.



45                        ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has expanded
to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment (KIK)/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being implemented. Small
credit lending financed under the project continues to expand rapidly. Annual
loan approvals of over $1 billion in 1981 reached about 12-14% of known
small-scale enterprises throughout the country. In addition to technical
assistance designed to strengthen banks' small credit operations, the project
also provides for industrial extension services under the Directorate General
of Small-Scale Industries (Ministry of Industry). The loan became effective
on October 16, 1981 and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management. The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics is near completion.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.
The first batch of students was enrolled in the six polytechnics in 1982.
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Three study contracts have been awarded and two are being awarded.
Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind



ANNEX II
- 46 -                       Page 18 of 29 pages
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed in late 1983. Furniture and
equipment procurement has not commenced. It is unlikely that this component
will be completed by the present Closing Date. The GOI has been informed of
the overall status and urged to take remedial actions. A second extension
of the Closing Date to December 31, 1983, has been approved. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88%
of the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90%
of the construction in Phase II is finished. Overall, 50% of furniture and
equipment has been procured and delivered. The first cycle of teacher
training has been completed and the second cycle is in process with all
training expected to be concluded by October 1982.  Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 52% of appraisal estimate due principally to lags
in disbursement for civil works and delays in procurement of books,
equipment, and furniture. It is expected that disbursements will accelerate
during the coming months. Despite delays and the current low disbursement
level, it is expected that the project will be completed on time.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school
education) centers, has been completed. All furniture aLnd equipment are
already on site. About 90% of the staff training prograLm is meeting
appraisal targets and production and distribution of pretested learning
materials is accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule;
local staff have replaced foreign consultants. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 57% of appraisal estimate and are expected to continue
to accelerate in the next few months.



47                       ANNEX II
Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were
540% of the appraisal estimate.  The FAO technical assistance team is now
in place and fellowship utilization remains up to schedule. Implementation
of a tracer study of agricultural secondary school graduates was planned to
begin in June/July 1982.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
Niovember 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia has been
completed, and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected to
be completed by early 1983. The initiation of technical assistance
provisions are about eighteen months behind schedule. A contract is being
negotiated with an external agency to administer the program of fellowships
and visiting professors. Two contracts were signed with the British Council
for the training of university administrators and textbook editors. Work is
in progress to establish a Management Information System and a Monitoring
Evaluation System in the Directorate General of Higher Education and in each
project university. There have been no indications to suggest that project
costs will be other than estimated at appraisal. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 27% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook development



- 48 -                      ANNEX II
Page 20 of 29 pages
activities; a Center for Curriculum Development, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the origi-
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design.
Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21 months. Commercial
operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected early in 1984. Construc-
tion of the associated transmission lines is progressing satisfactorily. The
feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired thermal power station site has
progressed to the point of selection of a suitable site.  Contracts for the
studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed, and work is
progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June, 1982 were about
60% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since then
has improved and the estimated delay has not increased. The main causes of
the delay of one year were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy
performance of the local contractor for piling work. Most contract awards
have now been made and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is
expected to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in July
1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 49 -                     Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e. six
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts are expected to be
finalized. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and the
transmission lines is satisfactory. Disbursement at the end of June were
about 24% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million. Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encountered
problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels. River diver-
sion planned for end-May 1982 was not achieved. However, steps have been
taken to divert the river in December 1982 and so modify the later
construction program as to ensure that original dam construction targets are
met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with 3-6 months delays,
some of which are expected to be recovered. No cost overruns are expected.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 42% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule.  Contracts
worth about $50 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
Contracts valued at $100 million have been evaluated by PLN and are presently
under review by GOI. PLN is planning to issue, in December 1982, another
invitation to bid for the balance of the distribution equipment estimated
at $20 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. Thus far no delays have
occurred which would affect the project completion date. The consultants are
now fully mobilized. Soil investigation and geological work is ongoing at
the mine site. The bids for the main mining equipment have been received.
The turnkey contract for the Tarahan terminal were signed and procurement of
the ship is in progress. During the initial startup moderate problems have
been noted in respect to project management and concerns have arisen with



ANNEX IL
- 50 -                       Page 22 of 29 pages
respect to the procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the
Bank. These matters received close attention from the first supervision
mission and they will remain a focus of subsequent supervision missions.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South Sumatra and other promising areas in
Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its agencies with
a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and feasibility/
prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enab:Ling it to establish
investment priorities and define policies for its short, medium and
long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Credit was for the development of an industrial estate at the
eastern border of Jakarta. Land acquisition difficulties have persisted
since project inception and have eventually resulted in a substantial project
delay. Consequently, disbursement of the Credit has been slow, and the
Closing Date of the Credit has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable
the remaining funds to be used for the development of an export processing
zone and related studies. As of September 15, 1982, a total of $8.9 million
has been disbursed. Full disbursement of the Credit is expected by the new
closing date.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO continues to make significant progress in both operations
and institutional developments: its operations in terms of new loan and
equity investment approvals more than doubled compared to 1979; its financial
position and performance recorded a marked improvement; and the portfolio
quality showed signs of reduced loan arrears in relation to the portfolio.
Moreover, BAPINDO continued to make progress in implementing the agreed
Action Program of 1977 and other programs for further strengthening its



- 51                         ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
organization and increasing its project promotion activities as agreed during
the last loan negotiations in April 1979. BAPINDO put into effect on April 1,
1981 a General Improvement Program involving a number of organizational
reforms and staff training and deployment. This was done in order to enable
BAPINDO to play a larger role in promoting the country's industrial develop-
ment as well as increasing its operational capabilities. Commitments and
disbursements under the loan, which were slow at the beginning have
accelerated during the past year and the loan may be disbursed on schedule.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
Training and population education are scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1982.  The research components -  the contraceptive raw materials study
and the community incentive scheme -- will not be completed before the loan
closing date and an extension is likely to be requested by the Government.
A loan saving of $7.0 million has been reallocated for the purchase of
equipment in support of project activities and procurement is expected to be
completed by December 1982. A further savings of $3.3 million is antici-
pated and the Government intends to request Bank approval for reallocation.
Only about $11.2 million, or 48%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A
sizeable proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date,
but not the full loan amount.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on the health components of this project, particularly
training, has been very good. Training is ahead of the appraisal schedule
and the construction of health center annexes is underway. Population
components have, however, made less than satisfactory progress. While the
procurement of vehicles and audio-visual equipment for mobile information
units is in process, the implementation of civil works has been delayed
considerably. As a result of recent GOI's efforts, this component is
beginning to make some progress. A sizeable number of contracts are
expected to be awarded by December 1982 and construction should start in
early 1983. Population education has also been delayed pending decisions on
the recommendations of an evaluation which was completed in July; a report
on this was submitted to the Government in August. A detailed program for



- 52 -                   ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
training teachers was also required before funds could be released. A
recent Bank mission has reveiwed these issues with the concerned agencies
and it is expected that implementation will start soon. Because of delays
in physical implementation, disbursement is lagging behind appraisal
estimates.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The pace of project implementation has increased considerably,
with the construction of the laboratory at the Nutrition Academy now completed
and the construction of the Nutrition Training Center currently underway
and is expected to be completed by end of 1982. Contracts for unprocured
equipment have been awarded and delivery is expected to be completed in early
1983. More than 80% of project fellowships and over 60% of consultancy months
have either been utilized or committed. The project was evaluated by an
independent team in July/August, the findings of which are quite positive.
Bank staff have reviewed the findings with Government and made pertinent
observations. Physical progress during the past twelve months has been faster
than ever before. This rapid progress is reflected in a sharp increase in the
level of cumulative disbursement from $4.3 million as of August 31, 1981 to
$8.3 million by August 31, 1982. A further saving of $800,000 has been
reallocated from the category vehicles and equipment to consultants services,
fellowships and salaries of local experts for the staff of the Project
Director. The project is expected to be completed by December 1982 and no
further extension in closing date date will be required.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed



- 53 -                    ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July
1981 and is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date was postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The project is about 25% completed compared
to 70% scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project
objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments



ANNEX II
- 54 -                   Page 26 of 29 pages
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work is
now underway on nearly all project components, and there is still a reasonable
chance of completing the project with a total delay of only one year. The
Provincial Departments of Public Works programs of support works were just
started in January 1982 with mobilization of consultants and after road
maintenance equipment had been ordered. $6.8 million of the loan has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The bid evaluation report is being reviewed by
the Government. Land acquisition has been completed up to and including
negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is underway.
Negotiations are about to begin with consultants to provide technical assist-
ance to the Indonesia toll road corporation, P. T. Jasa Marga.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and supporting
a rural road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian
provinces. The project also contains components for training and technical
assistance. Implementation of the various project components is still at an
early stage. Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and
maintenance equipment and bid evaluation has been completed for about half of
the items. Consultants are now being mobilized to provide technical
assistance to the district public works agencies and to assist the Directorate
General of Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All ftnds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of



ANNEX II
- 55 -                    Page 27 of 29 pages
funds for technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allo-
cated. It is expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date.
All of the operations under the loan appear to have been carried out satis-
factorily.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date:  December 4, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All works on the infrastructures and the amenity core at Nusa Dua
were completed in June 1982. The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport
and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and opened for traffic in
December 1980. The hotel training school was completed in July 1979 and has
been in operation since then. The preparation of possible participation by
the Bali Tourism Development Corporation in hotel investment utilizing the
uncommitted portion of the credit is expected to be finalized by the end of
September 1982.  The market for tourism to Bali has been good and in-
ternational standard hotels in Bali have been achieving high occupancies. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progressing
well for completion in March 1983. The construction of a second hotel (250
rooms) by Anchol Group at Nusa Dua has just started. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.



- 56 -                     ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program is now complete with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya.  Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future projects preparation and
utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently agreed upon. To
facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in December 1981,
extended the loan Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to June 30, 1983.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 85% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in each
city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded. Also
included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management program
(SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in Surabaya.
The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its actual coverage
exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP implementation is
progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in Jakarta due to earlier
start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya drainage component is in the
construction stage which is somewhat beset with land acquisition problems (for
canal dredging schemes) warranting local government's more intensive
participation and an increased allocation of funds for the program. The
overall project is expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected
dated of December 31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about
59% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972 Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank's assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide pro-
vincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with a
coverage in each city representing about 15 to 33% of total KIP area to be up-
graded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core housing



ANNEX II
- 57 -                    Page 29 of 29 pages
units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of about
11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs comprising of
solid waste improvement, and improved water supply are also included in one
of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering 125 cities
will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning, land regis-
tration and valuation programs. The developoment of the housing and mortgage
financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project. Technical
assistance for project management, training and feasibility studies to various
urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The sites and services pro-
gram is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays in the implementation
of the KIP programs have been overcome and the progress of these programs
should significantly improve with the consultants currently being appointed.
The first phase of the urban mapping contracts covering some 45 cities will
commence in October 1982. Technical assistance programs are proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 35% of
appraisal estimate.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and procurement is in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is currently underway. The
organizational and management training for the WEs has been underway since
September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.



- 58 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
TWELFTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project  : One year
(b)  Project prepared by                  : PLN with Bank and consultant
assistance
(c)  First presented to the Bank          : November 1981
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission : February 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations              October 1982
(f)  Planned Effectiveness                : March 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
GOI will:
(a) ensure that PERTAMINA prepares and adheres to a timebound program
of steam field drilling and development, backed by adequate
assurances of financing, to provide steam at the Kamojang
geothermal power station (para. 56); and
(b) takes all necessary actions to make available in time land
and rights to such land as shall be required at Kamojang
(para. 56).
PLN will:
(a) prepare by December 1, 1983 an adequate training/development
program for PLN's senior technical staff and initiate such a
program promptly thereafter (para. 37);



ANNEX III
Page 2
- 59 -
(b) discontinue the system of preparation of joint bid evaluation
reports by PLN and its consultants (para. 37); and
(c) attain in 1985/86 and thereafter a level of contribution to its
investment program from internally generated funds of not less
than 20% and, during interim years 1982/83 through 1984/85 the
level of such contribution of not less than 10% (para. 41).
Special conditions of disbursements against equipment and materials for
Kamojang geothermal power units will be achievement of sufficient steam
production by PERTAMINA (para. 56).






IBRD 12453 R3
00 T -   ' IHAILAND                            liO-                                  ,J%?   >             IZO-        C .         '    IZS'L  \'                    li-                     INDONESIA
B-ndA Aeo6/
/anduAceh  j~~ ~ ,  p        4.PHILIPPINES    -' -                             PUBLIC GENERATING  FACILITIES BY AREAS
.  ArISouth                                  Chiar         Sea             -RUNE  '3C~                                                               / ~                                       UALLODO          I5AAAenBUN
r  jeAoA    i MALAY' IA      )rNotun/                                                                                                                                                                                                             w L V t  No o &
F--  /                                                                                                                                I ~        ~                             SRiISIl
E OJECrA5iA+  |  1 i    !<\A 4INGAPORE  :'   --J       /  {7>.   .                        t                _.                MEnGdo*it          /    r                             Yll 6a       vEJAYA s-
}                  - .       '  ziopiungPng            6f       R Ax              > JX      A S  T E A          B  <S-                                  .- NKjLw|ALMArJERA                               vPa  ci  tiSC               O  ceaOn                   A
j    4      po t  k  ~~~~~~~~~ALYS IA Z1 /1 -A5                                      ,5ooa1                                         1         \      _
,Dmb Imi           >n l on V                                      ,t          r            ohokOrs    onrIndg   o.      Ak  / /;>   MonnVoari .: 
Psiang %   A5511Ont /                                                                       I -                                                  P    A-AAA5 Vl-SA-AB               |i 
| V   . jt       ,   ~~~I'                                V '>.StI V5 I/  'JAAAAp,I  JRS  X      A 5'                                                                                        .k *
S.\  Teukbs    <nq  oioy                       v o SNGK                    e A ,o Uikp      ypondo      //                                             OS'rY'-- ~   ~ _t                           \*atLxf , t
I fV A * 4eRy_    STas ungpds    \ ccaDT'EP              KALiINA-                           -                N SUAES
BensAiI/~-.   A,,k,I'gQut ACA  r.                      U .-:.---.                                    -                 'edo,         j             AV
MACEU ~       ~ lig  X85I,                           -ai5aSE17z        -      SUEW                                                  R-nv                             '                                                  ea
T.TAL~~~~~~Agi
~~~~__>TrOnkAI>Sr eoXm     dEEIJ.   SSgQ                                              I r                 2>,                                                                          Kooo  -'- 
A   S T E I?S                                                                                       j 
JAKARTA                                                                                                               Panda                 Seaa N
}0.~~~~~ <- -tisn                                                                                                                      _W vn0P                      ,J                                                       V' nrosfE/25tte  E
V  A' A I I M A N 7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1KI A-IV
VVCJAVA ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     SLE CnA5f  MAA'n          N/ -'-'o owrhlslal                               0    y    9    Y    y    y    Y    Y    Y
-G - XWM- r-'
(00'           (05-                           !                                                            IZO                            IZS-      mrEMBtOlwrorOf 5AAMSA  Auroboya  -  I--;5                                          40   
--A - K~      lRlk..
S           T R icAAcA    n                                       onosagAMpQL-g-
S 0 U I'IH E R N   K A Z I M A NTA N-, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A                          AS      lA       NL       SA       lA                  I
IV~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~I                         4                                                                                     \-.kfk--IRIANgAaY 
TO. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                             -             Aua-W7101               ,A.A.,IAOAolCA 
SAMBA ~~~                       OROSoROOARR*I~~~~,CACI           S    5    S    A    A    A             A
E-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b~~~~~~RO                                                                                NbAR,,  iLOMCOA
Conk ~~~~ CRR                         Kk-
IAA                   lAS                            15                            IV                            ISV                                        RloR,,gLaow a  RoREo-oBnan                                           AqA LVV      n






IBRD 16563
) ,06P  108  1:0r  1 1l2o                         I JULY 1982
1 06-                                              10110                                                1100                                                1 120
INDONESIA
Thio nep has be-n prepared by the World hank's staff ercltsi-ely fur thecotemenc.
SUMATTRA             of the readers of the re,port to which t-s ttached The denominations used and theT
......-  .-   th.  p d, t~py,   h pn~f h.W.,d 8k .d t.TWELFTH    POWER    PROJECT
hound ares shown on this map do nott imply, onl the part of the Wlorld 8ank and its
arffiliates, ay judgment on the lettl status of any tertnry or any end-r-tment nr                                                            JAVA                     SYSTEM
acceptttnce !f uch bo.ndnA                                                                                                                              POWER    S
MAJOR POWER PLANTS AND  MAIN  l RANSMISSION  LINES
Pro/jctArea                                                                                                                                        EXISTING  AND PROPOSED
POWER   SUBSTATIONS  TRANSMISSION LINES
ura a a                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATIONS  EHV  150KV  EHV  110 KV
o   L   JAKARTA                                                                                                                                             EXISTING                                     60
-6  Krakatau Stl    n                                                          JAVA  SEA                                                t                                                      UNDER CONSTRUCTION/COMMITTED FOR
SEA                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMPLETION BY 1986
g Serang                                                               Lt                                                                                                FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
) ! < 7 i ~~~~~~~~~Samb /I                                                                                                                                            PROPOSED) PROJECTS
'  1   \  X                                                                                                   Xll   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLN'S WILAYAH  NUMBERS
'Se iset map                     Jatiluhur                                                                :WILAYAH  OR  DISTRIBUSI HEADQUARTERS
PLN'S WILAYAH  BOUNDARIES
'   Cl;niu  ^_                               _           t           >               \                   4S___>   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SURABAYA
xi                     Taim>                          buw                 k l tg                             Gmb<;P
G                                                                                                                                       B.,o Gombany   Blabakm-Solo B  9_! pSeeB7seag n---
Mauncu   Mgdcung            Cu eliXI                                                        cid  
JAKARTA         106                                                                             a J--_ur w   oreio              So       lo  T.g
- r7'                                                                  akart                                                                                                                      70ooii  e 
_i an_ I,__ 5itubondo
C      eangkareng                              SEMARANG                                                                                                                                                                  Paiton
Ku nin                  PFumpang                                             Jpara          I SURABAYA           I110lig                                                                                                  nd    s
T,mge'd 9  la*                              Kudus                                                                                        Kar.ngkates~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ksm n  ae
Pu og                                                                          Lamongan                Cm -- -                                                                            i    r
PetRa g n         a>        b  *                            Harbo                                  er mem sk  *  Fotrokimia                                   INDIA N     OCEA NV
at Semarang                Scgorsmad           ~         n
ibin.ng                                                                                              ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uI e    00  100  150
Tand e,                         i                                           I
Unp                                         r/an                                                               KILOMETERS
. . kert n                                                0       20    40       6   0          too
z                   klok                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI LES
1 112                                               114






IBRD 16502
JU LY 1982
7-~~
To Paseh    ,                           
//                                 7e/ KJ                                               1
I                 /    a-                             68                          / 
7                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/,i6 19                                                               /
/  10                              8/I
I N DONESIA
TWELFTH POWER PROJECT
KAMOJANG GEOTHERMAL FIELD
ThiWstep hen been prop erd by th|
World Bek a ataff enaloi-jly fr/    PROPOSED POWER STATION SITE
the tnoehnience o (hade                                            PRODUCTION WELLS
the report to o,hch it in tteuhed.    ,                       *     RDCIO         EL
The den-ninat-on sewd nd-d the
botndaries shown on ths mep                                        EXPLORATION WELLS
do -a rpWly, nn the pen of at`
World Bank end its efhw-te. any                               O
jdg-ment an the legal tetuo of                                     WELL LOCAT IONS
any t-nitory  -r eny -edor-oetant
or euneptenuof ouh boundaies                                       ESTIMATED  FIELD BOUNDARY:
--       250 M. DEPTH
--        500 M. DEPTH
JAKARTA                                         NATURAL HOT SPRINGS
WEST     JAVA                                       KAMOJANG VILLAGE PLAN & PERTAMINA HOUSING
C- j            C*tobon                       *MAP NOT TO SCALE
KAMOJANG



