CONFORNED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2214 IND
Loan Agreement
(Twelfth Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 27, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2214 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 27, 1982, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Project will be carried out by Perusahaan Umum
Listrik Negara (hereinafter called PLN) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to PLN the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective   meanings  therein   set  forth   and  the   following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PLN of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the


﻿- 2 -
Project Agreement and any agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PLN pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(c) "Governing Laws" means Government Act No. 19 of 1960,
Presidential Decree No. 17 of 1967, Law No. 9 of 1969, Government
Regulation No. 18 of 1972, Government Regulation No. 36 of 1979,
Government Regulation No. 54 of 1981, Decree of the Minister of
Mines and Energy No. 515 of 1980, and any other lgal provisions
in force at any time governing the organization and operations of
PLN as any of them may be amended or supplemented from time to
time.
(d) "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the fiscal year of the
Borrower starting on April 1 and ending on March 31.
(e) "PERTAMINA" means Perusahaan Pertambangan Minyak dan
Gas Bumi Negara (PERTAMINA), a state owned corporation of the
Borrower established by Law No. 8 of 1971 and Law No. 44-PRP of
1960 and with authority for exploration and exploitation of
geothermal resources pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 22 of
1981.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be Decembei 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to four million four hundred thirty-three thousand
four hundred ninety-eight dollars ($4,433,498).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section  2.06. The   Borrower   shall  pay  to  the  Bank   a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.


﻿(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or         the
second six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as praticable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(d) Notwithstanding. paragraph (a) of this Section, the
interest rate of all Interest Periods commencing in 1S32 shall be
11.43% per annum.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall cause PLN to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action necessary or
appropriate to enable PLN to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance. To that end, the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient funds to cover the expenditures required
for the Project shall be made available to PLN in a timely man-
ner.
(b) The Borrower shall transfer to PLN, in addition to the
funds referred to in the preceding paragraph, as and when
required, sufficient funds to finance PLN's capital expenditures
as annually reviewed and agreed with the Bank.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan to PLN under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and PLN, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause and ensure that PERTAMINA shall:
(a) prepare and implement a work program of steam field
drilling and development, acceptable to the Borrower, the Bank
and PLN, ensuring steam production by PERTAMINA at the Kamojang
geothermal power station sufficient to generate: (i) not less
than 105 MW of electrical power by August 1, 1983; and (ii) not
less than 140 MW of electrical power by April 1, 1984; and
(b) allocate all funds, as and when needed, for the
financing and timely completion of the work program referred to
in the foregoing Section 3.03 (a).
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to make available as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out Part A of the Project and shall
inform the Bank, in a timely manner, that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Part A of
the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure at all times that amounts owed to
PLN for services and electricity provided by PLN to any depart-
ment or agency of the Borrower are promptly paid when due and, to
that end, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds
to cover such amounts owed to PLN shall be available to each
department or agency of the Borrower not later than the fifteenth
day of the month during which such amounts shall be payable.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the position of
President Director of PLN shall at all times be filled by a qual-
ified and experienced person.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the terms and condi-
tions of sale and delivery of the geothermal steam produced by
PERTAMINA for the PLN Power Plant in Kamojang to be contained in
a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between PERTAMINA and PLN.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, If any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of -uch property;
or as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose
of financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including  gold   and  foreign  exchange   assets  held  by   any


﻿-7-.
institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) through PLN review annually with the Bank, before the
approval of PLN's budget by the Borrower, potential changes in
the load growth of electric power of Java and the variations of
PLN's development program for Java that are required as a result
of such changes and take necessary steps to implement such devel-
opment program;
(b) review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN's investment
budget for the next fiscal year before its final approval by the
Borrower, in order to enable the Bank to express its views on the
priorities assigned to the investments included under such budget
and on the balance among the generation, transmission and distri-
bution of electric power likely to result from such investments;
and
(c) review annually with the Bank and PLN, PLN's develop-
ment plan and associatend financial forecast and financing plan,
and take appropriate measures to facilitate the access of PLN to
all possible sources of required finance.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
to assist PLN in improving its market surveys by providing to
PLN, inter alia: (i) guidelines on national energy policies; (ii)
firm data on primary energy availability; and (iii) energy usage
and pricing policies.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)  a default shall occur in the performance by PLN of any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement;


﻿- 8 -
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of PLN or for the suspension of itt
operations, without having obtained the prior concurrence of the
Bank;
(c) the Borrower shall have suspended, terminated, repealed
or substantially amended any of the Governing Laws or any pro-
vision thereof, without having obtained the prior concurrence of
the Bank; and
(d) PLN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PLN
or by others whereby any of the property of PLN shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following events are specifLIed pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and PLN; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreemer.t
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PLN.
Section 6.n2. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by PLN, and is legally binding upon PLN in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿- 9 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PLN and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and PLN in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 29, 1983, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the B2-rower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable aadress:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By Is! A. Hasnan Habib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! S. S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in               Expenditures
Category         Dollar Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1) Equipment and         156,500,000             100% of foreign
materials (ex-                                expenditures;
cept for Part                                 100% of local
A of the                                      expenditures
Project)                                      (ex-factory);
65% of local
expenditures
for items im-
ported and lo-
cally procured
(2) Equipment              60,000,000             100% of foreign
and materials                                 expenditures;
under Part A                                  100% of local
of the Project                                expenditures
(ex-factory);
65% of local
expenditures
for items im-
ported and lo-
cally procured
(3) Consultants'           33,500,000              100%
services
(4) Fee                     4,433,498             Amount due
(5) Unallocated            45,566,502
TOTAL      300,000,000


﻿2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(1) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000
equivalent may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1982; and
(2) expenditures under Category (2) until the Bank shall
have been satisfied that, in accordance with Section 3.03 (a) of
this Agreement, sufficient steam production for 105 MW of
electrical power is available.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to


﻿- 13 -
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of and provision of equipment and materials for
a 110 MW extension of the Kamojang geothermal station in West
Java, through the supply and erection of 2 additional generating
units of 55 MW each and provision of substation equipment to
connect it with the existing transmission system, including
consultancy services, technical assistance and studies with
respect to geothermal activities.
Part B:
Construction of and provision of equipment and materials for
the third 400 MW coal-fired generating unit at the Suralaya
thermal station in West Java, and provision of substation equip-
ment to connect it with the 500 KV transmission system under
construction, including engineering services for the third and
fourth generating units at Suralaya.
Part C:
Improvement of the operational efficiency and expansion of
the existing power distribution system in various areas of Java,
North  Sumatra   and  South  Sulawesi   including  a  program   to
standardize the 230/380 Volt distribution system and reduce
distribution losses.
Part D:
A hydroelectric development program in North Sumatra,
comprising the design and construction of 8 mini hydro stations
with an aggregate installed capacity of about 7 MW.
Part E:
1.   A training program to assist PLN's manpower development pro-
gram including: (i) the establishment of new training centers;
(ii) provision of classroom equipment; (iii) consultancy services
to assist PLN in personnel management, in the procurement and


﻿- 15 -
installation of new training equipment, and in launching courses
in new training centers; (iv) the introduction of instructor
training programs; and (v) overseas fellowships for selected PLN
managers.
2.   Strengthening procurement capabilities of PLN.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                        (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1988
through   March 15, 2003                   10,000,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


