Report No. PID4669
Project Name                     Poland-Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port(@)
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       PLPE8615
Borrower(s)                      Government of Poland (GOP)
Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
Mr. Jerzy Miszczuk
Director
Department of Maritime and Inland Waterways
Administration
ul. Chalubinskiego 4/6
00-928 Warsaw, Poland
Phone: 48-22-621-14-48
Fax:    48-22-628-85-15
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
Mr. Andrzej Montwill, President
Phone: 48-91-430-82-20
Fax : 48-91-462-34-12
Environment Category             A
Date this PID Prepared           January 11, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         January 2000
Projected Loan Negotiations      April 2000
Projected Board Presentation     July 2000
Country and Sector Background
Poland's long Baltic coastline ensures that sea transport will continue to
play an important role in the Polish economy, even as its trading patterns
change radically toward EU and other western markets. It offers an
environment-friendly alternative to road and rail transport for international
cargo movements, but it can realize its potential only if it improves the
timeliness and reliability of the services offered, while keeping their costs
and prices low. With the nature and directions of Polish trade evolving
rapidly from year to year in pace with the economic transition, investing in
ports has been a risky business. International road transport, railways and
pipelines are competing for the same traffic as the Polish ports. There is
also strong competition among alternative routes for cargo between major hub
ports (Rotterdam, Hamburg) and eastern Baltic destinations. New port
infrastructure -breakwaters, channels, and land access-- is lumpy, fixed and
costly; the State can ill afford the large minimum investments needed without
assurance that the new capacity will be well used.
Maritime transport accounts for about 11% of the total national expenditures
on transportation and its ports handle over 50 million tons per year. Poland
has four main sea ports: Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Swinoujscie. In 1998



Gdansk handled 41% of the total, Gdynia 15%, and Szczecin and Swinoujscie 379.
The overall sectoral organization is also changing. Two new port authorities
have been established in Gdansk and Szczecin-Swinoujscie, and a third one in
Gdynia is close to being set up. These landlord port authorities were
mandated by a ports law passed in December 1996 (amended in June 1999). The
law separated public statutory and regulatory functions from commercial
operations, transferring the latter to the private sector, and strengthened
open access policies and competition rules.
4.      From a physical standpoint, the ports suffer mainly from difficulties to
adapt to the new traffic patterns, rather than from blatant capacity
shortcomings, except maybe for roll-on/roll-off and ferry traffic. Past
neglect of maintenance compounds the situation. Moreover, port throughput
efficiency is hampered by the lack of effective connections with the inland
transport system, in particular the highways network. The latter problem is
being addressed through the Bank-supported Port Access and Management Project
(Staff Appraisal Report 15149-POL dated June 11, 1996) approved in August,
1996, which provides financing for new roads and bridges connecting to port
areas in Gdansk and Szczecin-Swinoujscie. The project also provided for
consulting services to help the new port authorities implement the Ports Law -
but the Ministry of Transport subsequently decided such services were not
needed.
Project Objectives
5.      The proposed Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port Project is a natural follow-up to
the Port Access and Management Project. It will help implement the newly-
established sectoral institutional framework in Szczecin, by strengthening the
landlord function of the new port authority through a concrete example of
capacity modernization and development in partnership with the private sector.
The Port Authority will upgrade and prepare the basic infrastructure and
lease it out to private operators to develop and use. The size of the public
investment will be primarily defined by the expressed requests of the future
private operators, and the sequence of investments on each of two sites will
closely follow the needs of the market. The establishment of new operators
within the port area will broaden the scope for competition among traditional
bulk and general cargo traffic operators.
6.      The project will also improve maritime accesses and navigation safety
between Szczecin and Swinoujscie, to reduce travel time between the Baltic Sea
and Szczecin and reduce the risk of collisions or other navigational
accidents.
Project Description
7.      The Project will include:
(a)     development of the Katowice Peninsula (Szczecin);
(b)     development of the Grabowski Island (Szczecin); and
(c)     rehabilitation of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Fairway
7.1     Katowice Peninsula: The Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority will
construct two new berths and prepare cargo handling areas on land already
reclaimed in the middle of the Oder River, within the port's present
- 2 -



boundaries, to provide additional operational space to be leased out to
private enterprises and operators, for bulk cargo handling, storage and
packaging facilities. One of these areas is the Katowice Peninsula (estimated
cost US$19 million).
7.2     Grabowski Island:   A second hitherto unused area, on Grabowski Island,
will be similarly developed by the construction of one berth and the paving of
cargo handling and storage areas. This facility is expected to be used by
private operators to handle containerized cargo and paper (estimated cost
US$16 million).
7.3     Modernization of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Fairway:    As a follow-up to
the installation of a Vessel Traffic Management System under the Port Access
and Management Project, the Szczecin Maritime Office will strengthen the banks
of parts of the ship channel, rebuild intermediate breakwaters, renew physical
navigation aids, establish containment areas for dredged materials, and
procure technical assistance to define and implement environmentally sound
dredging protocols (tentative total cost US$51 million).
Project Financing
8.      The total cost of the project is tentatively estimated at US$86 million,
of which IBRD would finance US$38 million, the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport
Authority US$20 million, and the Government of Poland (MTME) US$28 million.
There will be two loans, one to the Port Authority guaranteed by the Republic
of Poland, the other a loan to the Republic, passed through to the Szczecin
Maritime Office via the national budget.
Project Preparation and Implementation
9.      The project concept was developed as a consequence of the Polish
government's policy to promote competition and private participation in its
ports, and was prepared on the basis of a Port Sector Study carried out by the
Rotterdam Maritime Group and complementary feasibility studies, recently
completed, for each component of the project. The Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Seaport Authority and the Maritime Office of Szczecin will implement their
respective components. The appraisal mission is to take place in January
2000.
Project Sustainability
10.     Privatization and commercialization are key elements of the Government's
economic reform policy, so that the establishment of "landlord" port
authorities and the privatization of stevedoring and other port services are
expected to be sustained. All previous and most recent MTME transport policy
documents (under discussion in the government in late 1999) confirm the
commitment of Polish authorities to removing bottlenecks and enhancing the
competitiveness of the port sector to respond to the changing pattern of cargo
flows and the new opportunities offered by the integration of Poland into the
European Union. The Bank is discussing with the Government the financing of
other potential investments in the ports of Gdansk, Gdynia and Kolobrzeg,
which would further the same policy goals.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
- 3-



11.     The on-going road and port access projects in Poland are progressing
well in general. However, procurement has been delayed by lengthy legal
processes for acquiring land. Port projects here and elsewhere (notably
Klaipeda, Lithuania) highlight the need to focus early on environmental
issues, to get timely clearance from the relevant authorities and avoid delays
in project processing. These lessons have been addressed in preparing the
current project.
Poverty Category
12.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
13.     The project is classified as Category A.   The major environmental issue
is expected to be related to the possible contamination of the materials to be
dredged from the existing fairway channel. For the rehabilitation of the
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Fairway instructions about appropriate dredging methods
will be established, to comply with the environmental requirements. However,
the extent of dredging in all three project components will be relatively
small. Detailed engineering studies will include measures to reduce any
adverse environmental impact of the modernization works. The Bank is
reviewing the Environmental Impact Assessment and will circulate it to the
Board in January 1999.
Program Objective Categories
14.     None.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Marc H. Juhel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
TWUTD
Telephone: (202) 473-2392
Fax:        (202) 522-3223
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 21, 2000.
- 4 -



