MARITIME OFFICE IN SZCZECLN
Plac Batorego 4, 70-207 Szczecin
SZCZECIN - 9WINOUJACIE PORT AUJTHORITY J.S.Co.
Ulica Bytomska 7, 72-603 Szczecin
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESMIENT REPORT
FOR MODERNIZATION KNTD DEVELOPMENT OF
INFRASTRUCTURE OF:
1. SEA WATER W'AY - LNLAIND SECTION (SWLNOUJ§CIE -
SZCZECIN LAGOON)
2. PORT AREA OF KATOWICKI PE-NISU-LA ANID GRABOWSKI
ISLAND
SIUMMARY                                    E-300
t,-
WORKED OUT BY:
~'FT~.AGRICULTURE ACADEMNY IN SZCZECIN
Ulica Janosika2 8, 71-424 Szczecin
~~~ ~DESIGN OFFICE BPBM ..BIMOR" Ltd.Co.
~~~~~~ ~~~~~Ulica Jagielloniska 67 1 68, 70-382 Szczecin
SZCZECIN, December 1999



T'he authors:
* Prof dr hab. Juliusz C. CHOJNACKI, Environrnental Ministry Expert, - the leading
expert. Maritime Ecology and Environment Protection Department. Agricultural
Academv in Szczecin. tel. +4891-4231061 w. 327 e-mail marecol ¢2)
fish.ar.szczecm.pl.
* Prof dr hab. Mikolaj PROTASOWICKI - ecotoxicology expert, Toxicology
Department, Agricultural Academy in Szczecin e-mail promik- , fish.ar.szczecin.pl.
* Prof dr hab. Edward NIED2WIECKI - soil expert, The Soil Department,
Agricultural Academy in Szczecin
B Bronislaw GAZINSKI Msc, Civ. Eng. - the main projectant in BPBM ,BIMOR".
Szczecin. tel. 091-4850334 e-mail bimor (. sz.homeDpl.
W*1told MARSKI Msc. Civ. Eng. - the main projiectant in BPBM .BIMOR",
Szczecin tel. 091-4850334 e-mail bimor a. sz.home.pl.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                    2
December 1999



1.    OUTLINE
Safety of the Szczecin - SwinouRicie sea swaterway in terms of na,igation is crucial for efficient
functionimg of Szczecin Port. Maintenance of the operatioral efficiency and navigability of the
waterwav running through the northem crossing. Szczecin Lagoon. and the Lower Odra as far
as Szczecin requires constant maintenance of hvdrotechnical structures and also rapid
modernization of the most important elements of the Szczecin - SwinoujScie Port Complex.
making allowance for increasing tonaize of vessels arriving a-, Szczecin Port (overall
dimensions and capacity), and the changing structure and volume of cargoes.
The elemTients which should be modernized and extended first are the sea waterway (SW) on
the inland section and the port infrastructure on Katowicki Peninsula and in Ostrouw Grabowski
(IKG), which are marked inFig. 1. Needs in both areas are much lar-er. but only those needs
which meet specific economic, sociaL social engineering and ecological requirements have
been selected for the Environmental Assessment Report. and these have been included as
developrnent forecasts in the regional spatial development plan.
2.1. Strategic aspects of the investmentproject
The port infrastructure modernization program (for the northern passing of the waterway with
Mielifiski and Piastomski Canals. and for the port areas on Katowicki Peninsula and in Ostrow
Grabowski) is an attermn  to increase the operational efficiency of the main Polsh ports in
Szczecin - Swinoujscie port complex. It involves the creation of technical conditions allowing
real comipetition between the ports wAith regard to attracting users, shipowners, carriers etc..
both from the private sector and the state sector. It is therefore necessary to create legal
opportunities for the safe operation of the port by carrying out construction projects for two
infrastructure elements servinc the port of Szczecin - SwinoujScie:
1. modernization of the sea waterway (SW) in the northern passing over the Mielifiski and
Piastowski Canals and the exit to Fairway Gate I in Szczecin Lagoonr.
2. modernization of the port areas on the Katowicki Peninsula and in Ostr6w Grabowski,
inchlding the construction of essential storage and depot areas. quays. basins. and also
access roads (on land) intezrated with the international (S3), nationaL and regional road
networks.
The projects comprising the package under the name 'Modernization of Infrastructure
Elements of Szczecin - gvwinouj§cie Port' make up an integral whole because the port in
Szczecin can not operate normally without an efficient waterway that is safe for navigation and
connects the port with the Baltic Sea. The proposed project provides for modernization and
extension of the port infrastructure on Katowicki Peninsula and in Ostrow Grabowski. The
rationale for the modernization project will only be clear when there are new investors who
have at their disposal properly equipped quays, storage space, naneuvering areas and are able
to benefit from the integration of the port with the international road system via road and rail
transport connections.
These projects therefore have strategic significance for international users (Czech Republic,
Gerrnany, and the countries of the former USSR), Poiish users, and also for the West
Pomeranian region. For this reason loans from the World Bank have been guaranteed by the
Ministry of Transport of the Polish Republic, which considers the investment activities of the
Maritime Office in Szczecin and the Szczecin - SwAinouj§cie Port Authority as being of vital
importance for present and future cargo vessels passing through this port.
FIN-AL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.
December 1999



2.L.. The ecological and strategic context of the project
Poland has a long coastline and makes use of it as much as possible, for example to promote
economnic and ecological maritime transport, which is extremely important because of the fierce
competition on the global and European Union maritime cargo market. With bulk cargoes
growing maritime transport is an alternative to land transport, which has a powerful
detrimental effect on the natural land environment (phytocoenosis. zoocoenosis). the
landscape. and public safety.
The transportation of large quantities of bulk goods using ocean-going ships and teams of
inland and sea-going barges significantly reduces the environmental hazard both on land and
water. Of course. one may not rule out the possibility of disasters and emergencies in the port
areas or on waterways. but these areas are under the far superior and more effective control of
the well-organized special services of the Maritime Office in Szczecin (Urzqd Morski w
Szczecinie), instiutions operating on the commission of the Szczecin - SwinouiJcie Port
Authority, and also the Enviromnental Protection Inspectorate, which constantly monitors the
national and regional situation. There are also special services which are able to eliminate the
effects of disasters on administrative areas with particular status with regard to administrative
and legal responsibility.
2.2 Operational conditions of the Szczecin -Swinoujscie Port Complex
The Szczecin - Swinoui§cie Port Complex (one of two port centers in Poland) is situated on
the Baltic Sea at the mouth of the river Odra. one of the two main Polish rivers. Apart from the
Odra, wliich is an inland navigation route integrated with the German system of waterways,
Szczecin has convenient rail and road connections with the rest of Poland and other countries.
including the Szczecin-Berlin motorway.
Szczecin Port is connected to the Baltic Sea via the Swinouijcie -Szczecin waterway. This
waterway has the capacity to handle ships with the following maximum parameters: length 160
in. draug ht 9.15 rn. or length 206 m and draught of 8.15 rnr which corresponds to a fully
loaded ship with a capacity of 15-16,000 DWT, or a partially loaded ship with a capacity of
20-25.0C00 DVT.
The Szczecin - Swinouiscie Port mnainly serves Poland's foreign trade. Domestic trading
services amount to over 90% of port cargo handling. The western part of Poland is a natural
source of custom for the port. There are also orders from the central and eastern regions of the
country, though the eastem region is mostly served by the Gdansk - Gdynia ports.
The Szczecin - Sinoujscie Port also provides services for clients from Czech Republic,
Slovakia Austria and Hrungary. as well as the eastern provinces of the FRG. The amount of
transit cargoes (outside Poland) varies between 1 to 1.5 mln tones per year.
The last two years have seen a stabilization of cargo volumes, with the exception of general
cargo. The fall in the quantity of general cargo may be largehl attnbuted to the port's lack of
specialist capacity to serve containers. The present handling capacity of Szczecin Port exceeds
17 mln tones per year (Fig.2). However, this is mainly capacity in the handling of those goods
which are declining in their significance as cargo, such as coal and ore. The port is in fact least
well-equipped Io handle general cargo. An especially neglected category is general cargo in
containers.
For this reason modernization of the port's technological capacity. esneciallv with regard to
general cargo. using new handling technologies, is at this time a top priority policy objective
for the Szczecin - Swinoujgcie Port Authority.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. E)MCUTrVE SlTMMARY.                   4
December 1999



The various forecasts which have been prepared concur that by 2010 cargo passing through
Szczecin will reach a level of around 15-16 mln tones per vear, and will feature:
* a stronLger growth tendency for general cargo handling. which will be the main object of
trading in Poland. This will result from the restructuring of industry and its adaptation to the
international division of labor. The Szczecin Port will see a predominance of RO-RO
general cargo handling, mainly in containers. With regard to general cargo it is forecast that
in 2010 cargoes will amount to around 3.5 mln tones. includin_ 35.000 TEU in containers.
* progress in industrializing the Szczecin Port combined with exploitation of the duty-free
zones, which will encourage import and export of goods by water transport.
In order to successfully fulfil these aims both the Maritime Office in Szczecin and
Szczecin  - Swinoujicie Port Authority  must modernize and  extend  the  port
infrastructure (preparation of land and quavs), so as to create conditions for further
investment by independent entities, (which would lease land and conduct their own
handling and storage operations, including processing). and also comprehensivelv ensure
safety for all ships and sea barges on the sea waterway, and especialh, for vesseis served
in Szczecin Port.
Fig. 2. CARGO VOLUMES HANDLED PN SZCZECIN PORT rN TIE YEARS 1985-1998 (in '000 tones)
40 000-           -                               m
30 OD- 00/ 
20 300- _3      t              w 
10 ODO- _MG              7 
O- _ I -/    (D 
o    .>om 
,tn  a)s   a
O Polish ports D Oder river mouth ports* D Szczecin Port
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                  5
December 1999



2.3. Administrative condfions
The over-riding objective of modernizing the infrastructure elements of the Szczecin -
Swinouj§cie porn complex is to create the technical capabilities necessary- for the operation of
the port with regard to both traffic capacity, navigational safety, and storage and handling at
sensitive points in the port.
All stages of investment project will be carried out on land or in waters belonging to the State
Treasury and administered by the Maritime Office in SzczeciT, which, witin the limits of its
competence, will be the organ that makes decisions concerning development and management
of these water areas. The regulations of the MARPOL convention apply to the fairway formiing
the sea waterway. while also applying to port land. So far, Szczecin - SwinouiJcie Port
AuthoriTy has constructed a sewage treatment plant on land near the planned investment area.
and it will deliver an oil-contaminated water treatment plant for operation in the II quarter.
3.    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The first element of the investment project concerning the fairway, that is the sea waterway, is
linear in nature because it concerns a section of 10-12 km in lenzth and around 500 m in width
along the inland part of the sea waterway from the Lagoon of Pomeranian to Szczecin Port.
The project involves regulation of the fairway from Swinoujgcie to Fairway Gate I (widening
up to 110 m) with passing places, construction of a central turning basin in Swinoujscie, and
reconstruiction of damaged breakwaters where Piastowski Canal enters the Szczecin Lagoon
(Fairway Gate I). The project also involves construction of bank reinforcements on Mielifiski
and Piastowski Canals (km 4.900 - 18.000).
The second element of the infrastructure project for KatowiLcki Peninsula and Ostr6w
Grabowski involves the extension of the infrastructure on Katowicki Peninsula and in Ostr6w
Grabowski,L including construction of bank reinforcements and quays for ships and barges in
vacant areas of the Peninsula deepening of port canals by these hydrotechnical structures, and
modernization of access roads (Clowa St.). In Ostr6w hvdrotechnical structures will be
constructed (quavs and a RO-RO ramp), canals by these structures will be deepened, and
sewage disposal and water supply systems will be constructed, as well as electricity supply
lines and essential road transport facilities.
Three ship quays will be constructed along the river Regalica on the Katowicki Peninsula, with
a total length of 570 rn- as well as a barge quay with a length of 345 rn, mooring posts, and
bank reinforcements with a length of around 600 rn. The ship channeis on the river Parnica
(500 m) and Regalica (600 m) will be deepened and a 400 m section of Clowa St. will be
modernized.
A ship quay will be constructed in Ostr6w Grabowski with a length of 442 mn, as well as a
bridge for RO-RO ships. an 80 m transition quay, and bank reinforcements. Dredging work
(400,000 mn3 of dredging spoil) will also be carried out. and a 1000 m two-lane access road will
be constructed.
4.    BASICDATA
4.1. The sea waterway - the inland section ( Swinoujgcie - Szczecin Lagoon)
Numerous land observations, hydrological and biological surveys, and model simulations
determining the range and effects of the investment project on the abiotic constituents of the
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXEC7TIVE SUMMARY.                    6
December 1999



Odra estuary ecosvslem have been carried in the area of the sea waterway. that is the fairway
situated on gwina strait, and from Fairway Gate I to Szczecin-
The hydrology, and especially, the hvdraulics, of the Odra estuary have been well-documented
by many years of data collection at measurement points of the Institute of Meteorology and the
Water Management. via the measurement network of the Martime Office in Szczecin and also
at measuring points of the Institute of Hydro-engineering of the Polish Academy of Sciences.
Research was carried out on mathematical and physical models that took into account the
specific nature of the hvdraulics of the estuary water system, with regard to the geometric
variants of the modernized waterway, and taking into account the effect on the hydraulic
system  of the Lagoon and the straits connecting the Lagoon to the Baltic Sea. The
mathematical model used allowed researchers to simulate forecasts of the range. type and
amount of the project7s impact on the Odra estuary water system. A separate navigational
analysis of shipping traffic on the fairway was drawn up, taking into account risk theory and
assuming an improvement in traffic safety. This analysis clearly showed that the opportunity
exists to increase the capacity of the fairway given the parameters assumed for the
modernization of the sea waterwav.
4.2. Etension of the infrastructure on Katowicki Peninsula and in Ostrow Grabowski
The infrastructure of Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski, and especialUy the planned
port hvdrotechnical structures. will be located in the south-west part of Ostr6w Grabowski the
north-east part of the isle of Lasztownia. and the eastern part of the porL in the vicinity of Coal
Basin (Basen G6rniczv). which are in the industrial district of the city and are not situated next
to any of Szczecin s residential areas.
There are plans (mentioned in Ch. 3) to extend the port infrastrucure on Katowicki Peninsula
next to the river Regalica (the East Odra). Coal Basin and the river Parnica, over an area of
around 160.000 mi. This is a flooded river terrace at a level of around 0.2 - 0.6 mn consisting
of organic wash peat and powdenr humus clay, which will be reclaimed by construction of an
embanknent. which will raise its level to around 3 m above sea level. This will later settle to a
level of 2 mn a.s.1. The embankment will be constructed from dredging spoil (around 220,000
mt?) froml dredging work on the rivers Parnica and Regalica. and will cause an increase in the
level of pollution and hazardous substances in spoil run-off flowing into surface waters (this
containizzation may not exceed the level permitted by Polish standards).
The planl provides for the removal of around 400 trees (ten 70 years old self-sown birches,
poplars and willows which do not possess any particular natural value) and around 2000 gray
willow shrubs which are a habitat for numerous land and aquatic birds occurring in bands of
riverside rushes. This land however, will not be completely stripped of vegetation - the plans
provide that alnost 1 0% of the area of the land will retain its local plant-life.
ln Ostr6w Grabowski the extension of the infrastructure mentioned in Ch. 3 will be carried out
over an area of 162,000 m2, consisting of organic land - peat, humus and dredging spoil.
Lower areas need to be raised up to the required level by creating an embankment using
190,000 m' of dredging spoil from dredging work carried out during the deepening of the
fairwav.
The flow of water from land subject to silting work vill periodically cause contaminated
effluent of dredging spoD to enter the waters of the Debicki basin (contamination may not
exceed the level permitted by Polish standards). The flora and fauna on this land does not
include any valuable elements or other features requiring protection. Some of the land is
currently available for garden allotments, and several families also live here (the plans provide
for their resettlement). The rest of the land is undeveloped waste land.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMM,ARY.                    7
December 1999



5.  EIFFECT OF THE MODENSATION OF PORT L%TRASTRUCTURE
ELEMEATS ON THE NA TURAL ENVIOAEAT
5.1. The environmental impaci of the investment project on the sea waterway
The modernization of the fairway in the Odra estuary-, and especially construction work will
have an impact on the biotic and abiotic elements of the biosystem in the water and land
environment. The trough of the fairway, according to the project assumptions. will not be
deepened. and no new trenches or geometrical elements will be constructed. However the
future plans do provide for the widening of the fairway (from Fairway Gate I to Szczecin) and
the construction of a tuming basin and passing places in §winouj§cie Port. Because of
breakdowns of hvdrotechnical structures it is also essential to modernize bank protection
structures on Mielinski and Piastowski Canals. using the best technology for structures of this
type. The plans provide for the use of the technical approach used by the Rotterdam Maritime
Group to prepare'for the implementation of the World Bank loan project.
The structures being modernized on the Mielinski and Piastowski Canals are close to the
boundaries of the buffer areas of Wolin National Park. which is why the plans provide for
hydrotechmnical development that will not affect the hvdraulics of bodies of water and especially
the stability of banks and the bottom of the Back Delta of Swina river. The work will not affect
the navigational operation of ihe Piastowski Canal on Stara Swina, where local fishing boat
traffic is permLitted w;ithin existing depth parameters. Modernization work Aill also have no
detrimental effect on navigational safety levels on the fairway in Szczecin Lagoon. nor on the
MilellskL and Piastowski Canals. It should also eliminate cross-currents on these sections.
According to the plans the -Mdening of the fairway from Fairway Gate I to Szczecin (to 100
m) wil bring about greater and freer flow of salt water into the estuarn while the tide is
retreating which will undoubtedly affect the taxonornic structure of aquatic organisms and
bring about greater expansion of euryhaline organisms, especially affecting their ecological
structures, including the spatial structure. Two new breakwaters of Fairway Gate I (length 450
m each) will localh- affect the landscape in exchange for an increase in navigation safety.
The most serious threat for the environment, however, will be the dredging works in Szczecin
Port involving the removal of material from the bottom in order to construct hydrotechnical
structures and storage of dredging spoil (a decision regarding the placement of the storare
facility has not vet been issued). It is expected that the dredging spoil will differ in terms of
contamination (according to Polish law dredging spoil is waste, which means that payment
must be made for storage) and will include the moderately and badly contaminated material
(from the port waters) and clean deposits from the Mielinski and Piastowski Canals. which
could be used for land reclamation near to the construction site.
In the course of construction -work there will be temporary and local occurrences of noise
pollution. dust pollution, and fuel emissions (from heavy construction equipment. transport and
various craft).
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                   8
December 1999



5.2. The environmental impact of the infrastructure modernization project on the
area of the Katowicki Peninsula and Ostrow Grabowski
In the course of work on the areas of the port in Szczecin- and especiallh in Ostr6w Grabowski
and in Katowicki Peninsula. preparation work will be essential. T-nis will cause the destruction
of plant-life, shrubs and trees, and this will be fundamentally detrimental to the current
landscape. One of the elements of the investment project is within the Ecological System of
Municipal Green Areas of Szczecin. Ground work associated with the construction of the earth
embankrnent Nill force the investor to make use of dredging spoil. This is indicated by the
earth rmass balance. As a resuh precipitation water seeping through the storage facility for
dredging spoil and silt may cause secondarv contamination of the wateT environment (surface
waters and ground waters).
Dredging work- associated with deepening the fairway will bring about temporary disturbance
of the ecological balance in the existing biotope (bottom and water) and biocoenosis, which
will occur as a result of the mineral seston generated. One dangerous effect of this could be the
secondarv re-emission of contamination loads from alreadv existing bottom deposits into the
water environment.
The investment project will cause permanent change of areas which are now ecological assets.
and especially of enclaves often formed as a result of development of wild plant-life in
secondarv habitats. Regardless of these threats there will be a temporary emission of noise.
vibration, dust. odors (airborne phase of bituminous mass and also raising of organic deposits
from the bottom in their oxvyen-free breakdown phase), exhaust gas (from heavy construction
equipment. transport. and various craft), flow- of precipitation water from developed areas,
which should be channelled by a drainage system to a nearby sewage treatment plant (non-
orgzanic and organic suspensions including oil-based substances).
.5.3. The impact of accompanving dredging work on the environment
In order to maintain navizabilitv on the fairways it is essential to carrv out permanent
deepening, and to achieve this it will be necessary to extract large quantities of bottom
deposits. Port basins are also subject to silting and these also require deepening on regular
basis.
Extracted deposits. although they are often rich in biogenic macro-elements. also contain large
quantities of pollutants which were bounded and precipitated in the sedimentation process.
These pollutants may be reieased from the deposits during extraction and storage in silt fields
or when they are dumped in specially designated areas of the sea bed. This may be detrimental
to the environment.
Port basin deposits and other deposits rich in organic matter contain large quantities of
xenobiotics, including heavy metals (Hg, Cd. Pb. Cu. Zn, Cr, Ni) that are exacted using
petroleurm bernine. chloro-organic pesticides and PCB. For a number of years constant
monitoring of contamination of deposits extracted in ports and the Odra estuary, and
subsequently disposed of in dumping areas near the ports and fairways. has been carried out.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                     9
December 1999



Table 1 THE CONTENT OF SELECTED HEAVY METALS IN THE AREA OF THE
PORT INFRASTRUCTIRE MODERNISATION PROJECT
IStructure  Organic  mgkg'1                                                                   | 1
being      matter                                                                             matter
studied    (0)      HP-      |Cd         Pb          Cu          Zn     i Cr       Ni       1PCB
0-5      0.19      099        378         17"       114.9    5.0        6.0        1 1
(2,1)   G0.08-0.32  0,11-2,51  4,2-78,8   1.1-      8.4-255  1.0-10.8  1,3^11,4   0-34,1
5-10    10.69                            76.8    1485.    r91           16.1       101
~5~10-----' 0 6-9~-~~~~0j~;S ~ ~~~ -1;  ----1-76.- --------   - -    -----------------i    I--1-;----
(6,6)'  i0.30-1.09  2,05      64,0       48.5-      286-843  11.6-40,3  9.3-,.]   0-686-
Canals,                        1011      214.5       14°i
basins and io-15    1.31       9.16       16-7.2     118 0     857.6    48.5                 101
other
other  (12.6)  S 0.43-^.0   3.80-  42,9-  28,0-    I 563-    14.8-88.6  18.5-43.4  0-932^
Szczecin  1         14.96      266.6      25-.5    1315
waters     1-20        1.64    1^.        189.8     11681       11484   45.8       41.3       185
(17.4)'  1         3.4 -".   3111-       138.0-      0 3-    122.        ,1       0-1059 
99.0                            2.0    1 1.5!
>20    ',°         l.        ts.9        t ,'- !12S1.4   VA7.          1' 5. J
(22.8)-  ',1.16-3.11  6.80-21.9 255.3-  186,1-    604-       13.2-     29,9-      10-36,1
(366.0         S     1836      156.0     106.1       -
0-5      0.06     10.34      -7.8        ,.        130.0         -      -  5.7
|(14)'   0.005-  0|1.78    I 2,4-15,6    0.         7,4 57,5 | 1-4.0    0,9-2,4    0-131
0.23I
The       5-----0---
fairway
on Swina...
Mielifsi 110-15s
and       L.
Piastowsk | i.20    Deposits with organic matter content exceeding 5% not found.
i Canals
>20 
0    P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- -~~~~ 0 -5     0.18       0.9"       3.19       -46         3 .4  -1.8          . 
The                 0-3-54- 7 '.4-   7._                                 6.5 
The       | (1,6) | 0.01-0,62 1 .0,2,93  3,7-li 1.6  1,2-54,7  6.2-     1,3-16.3   1.6-20,8   1 0-5,9
fairway  I-                                I                     44
betw een   ---------- -- ---- --~~~-  ------------~~~~   -- - -- -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---  --    -  -- - - - - -
Fairway   5-10    I 0.69      p.I       I75.9        52.0      69'()   12.6        29.9       10°1
Gate I and L --L------------------ --------                               - - -          -
|IVon     110-15   i12       j6.69       1704        89.8      915       24.0      347        89
Szczecin  1(I2,4)  10.75-172  4.10-       10l7.7-    50.0-    1646       16,5-33.8  28,0-49.2  7,1-11,2
Lagoon                         11.79     232.9       143.2     121S-j
(not tob   j5e20   I         |]0.20      176.0          . G-9    11054   '86.6      3. 9      12.1
dredged   | (18.2)'  0.20-2.(0  5I.8-     1171.8-    65.3-     809-      1.]       26,6-91,0  5,7-193 
during
actual     -----1-.65                    276.0       144       1278      136.6-j-
acual    L---- ~~--------------- - --------- -  ----------W----------W------------ ----------- ------------ -----------
project)   >20    1 1.60       10.55      162.7      1131A. U  1112     64.5       50.5       10.0
(22,5)' 11.30-2.05 S2,04-     54,4-       14.9-     177-     4.7-142.0  16,7-      3,9-17,4
___ _______ _______ t15.80        265.0       170-0                         1 14  113.0
Note: red coloring has been used to mark those pollutants whose levels stipulated by Polish
legal regulations have been exceeded.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                                 10
December 1999



6. LDENrIFICATIONANDAANALYSIS OFAPPROACHES TO THE MODERNISATION
OFELE1MEANTS OF THE PORTINFRASTRUCTURE
6.1. Identification of options
Each option for the modernization of elements of the port infrastructure must accord with the
following fundamental selection criteria: indispensability, functionalit, enhancement of
navigational safety. feasibility (technical, material, and time-related). and impact on all the
elements of the natural environment. The options selected as most advantageous should also
take into account determination of the impact on the natural enNironment in the work
preparation phase. and construction and operation of the modemized elements of the port
infrastructure in compliance with Polish and international agreements concerning protection of
the environment.
6.1.1. Identification of optionsfor the sea waterwaya:
1. Cancellation of the project - this would bring about the complete degradation of the sea
waterway. which will mean that ships that currently use this waterway will be forced to stop
doing so. This situation would threaten the existence of the ports of Szczecin Lagoon and the
Lower Odra and would also have a detrimental effect on inland shipping. In the course of the
operation of the sea waterway. before it is put out of operation. ships navigating the above
mentioned channels should be expected to breakdown.
2. Modernization of canals with a number of narrowing points - the required reduction of
the water flow would be achieved and this would benefit the environment of Szczecin Lagoon.
while shipping would be seriously restricted, and a number of phenomena detrimental to the
durability of hydrotechnical developments would occur.
3. Modernization of open canals without narrowing points - water flows would increase, and
phenomena enhancing the durability of hydrotechnical developments would occur. There
would be an insianificant impact on the environment of Szczecin Lagoon.
4. Open Afielzniski Canal, Piastowski Canal with storm gates or a lock- - this option is
proposed as a target solution which would clearly restrict changes in the environment of
Szczecin Lagoon and allow partial reinstatement of the conditions that existed before the
canals were constructed.
5. Canal depth of 10.5 m - a depth of 10.5 m only occurs in the southern part of Piastowski
Canal. The rest of the waters of Mielifiski and Piastowski Canals have much greater depths that
exceed 12.5 m on large areas of the bottoms of these canals. Shallowing the canals to 10.5 m
would require depressions to be filled with loose ground and subsequent construction of
reinforcements. It would also be necessarv to canry out continuous monitoring and
maintenance of the bottom.
6. Canalx depth of 12.5 m - the existing depths would be used, although it would be necessary
to carry out relatively mIiinor dredging work, mainly in the vicinty of Fairway Gate I (besides
the depressions with a depth of 22.0 m).
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTVE SUMMARY.                    11
December 1999



7. Canal depth of 14.5 m - the target option which is feasible if option 3 is selected.
According to studies the canals deepen along their entire length within a range of 2-4 cm a
year. It is necessary to construct bank reinforcements. which would allow the depth of canals
to be increased from 10.5 m to 14.5 n. without the durability of the reinforcements being
cornpromised.
6...2. Identification of options for the infrastructure of Katowicki Peninsula and
Osrrow Grabowski
1. Cancellation of the project - preservation of the status quo would mean accepting the
decline in the development of the Szczecin Port, and therefore the gradual decline of its
significance in the national economy and its elimination from inMternational trade.
2. A different location - (e.g. gwinoujkcie or Police) integration with the national and
international transport routes Qty raiL road and inlad waterway); no organized storage facility
for dredging spoil and sil. This is a feasible option. though it is many times more expensive
and more difficult in termrs of construction because of the unsuitability of roads, and the
resistance of local communities. Location in Swinoujscie will create the significant transport
stream crossina the Wolin National Park.
3. Construction ojport, storage and transport infrastructure on Katowicki Peninsula only,
without the involvement of Ostrow Grabowski and making use of the existing dredging spoil
storage sites - this would only be a small part of the wider program of infrastructure
developrment in Szczecin Port. As a result Szczecin would lose the opportunity of becoming a
cargo handling cete, for western Poland and eastern Germany. The creation of appropriate
investment condiLions in Ostr6w Grabowski, which is the main reserve of development land in
SzczeciD Port, would again be delayed.
4. Consitruction of port, storage and transport infrastructure only in Ostr6w Grabowski,
without Katowicki Peninsula. making use of the existing dredging spoil storage sites - this is a
feasible option, although it would be a partial solution with regard to the development
program. This option would mean that the northern part of Katowicki Peninsula, with its ship
servqcing areas on the Katowickie-Dalby and Dasbrowieckie quays would not be fillly exploited.
These quays are the easiest (and cheapest) to construct and would constitute a significant
increase of the modern bulk and liquid cargo handling capacity. The same as above applies in
the case of conventional general cargo for which the quays along the river Regalica are
(provisionally) designated; the same also applies in the case of the activation of inland
navigation (including the main traffic direction to Germany) for which the development of
Katowicki Peninsula is especialhy suitable (location by the main waterway to the south and
west).
5. Realization of the infrastructure project for the Katowicki Peninsula and Ostrow
Grabowski, making use the existing dredging spoil storage sites - this option fully accords
with the assumptions of the spatial development plan of Szczecin Port. which is currently in the
final stages of legislation. This option would be a continuation of the development strategy of
Szczecin Port which has for many years brought about the construction of individual elements
of the technical infrastructure (mostly transport related), including projects with the
participation of the World Bank; this option would also benefit from the fact that certain
FINAL INPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                   12
December 1999



formal and legal procedures associated with the realization of the project in question have
already been largely implemented and approved by the local authorities; the proposer of this
option, that is the Szczecin - Swinouj§cie Port Authority, is the perpetual usufructor of land
designated for extension; the option would also exploit to the full currently undeveloped land
on the Katowicki Peninsula which has a utility supply and transport systems, and would begin
investment in new development land of Ostr6w  Grabowski thereby also allowing further
investment on what would then be the most attractive port area possessing the most
convenient transporn connections. both on water and land.
6.2. Forecast of the effects of the various options on the natural environment
Determination of the impact on and the seriousness of threats to navigational conditions,
hydraulics, the environmental pollution, environmental assets and especially the fishing
industry,. the condition of aquaLic animals and plants and flood hazards caused by the
implementation of the various options for modernization of the port infrastructure has been
included in the table below.
Surface waters are most vulnerable to environmental degradation, and this hazard is most ikely
to occur during construction work. During operation of the above-mentioned infastucture the
negative environmental impact will be much less significant. It is even estimated that some
eiements of the natural enviromnent will be regenerate themselves - in anv case a simnificant
improvement in their parameters will occur, e.g. water quality, hydraulics, fishing, and also
aquatic animals and plants.
Table 2. ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF THE SEA WATERWAY PROJECT ON THE
ENVIRONMENTT
Area of confict                               i Onrions
1    2      3    4    5    6    7
Level of conflict during continuous operation  _
| Hy7dr a uIiics                                      + -               0 1   -      
Navigation and traffic safetv                 I - i       ' - : P _1
Landscape features                             0     0    i O    10    0 O    0   i O
Environmental risk (pollution, decline of water            0     0    0    0    °
resources, noise. odorous)!
Permanent required derth                       -l|   - :;: i0   4-            4
lmpact ori the salinity of estuarv water            o r| fi                      I nP1
Fishing  ____10_1___o_! 0    0                                   0    '-T 
Aquatic aninals and plants in the eswuarv     I 1 0    +i f | t |  0 ° |V
! Recreation (yachting. motorized water sports etc)  I 0     ! I +. Ti_ +  _  !
Water qualitv                                 ! O    o    j > -        -
Estuary flood hazard                                 1t    !+t      1° !- | +_-
Level of conflict during construction work
Waterauality                                  i     iO     0    0i   10   l 0_ 
Aquatic animals and plants in the estuarv (Szczecin    | 0    -/-   ft  |+
Lagoon and the Baltic Sea)                    I      _     _          !
Fishing                                              U       -   U
Landscape features                            to     O    IU          i      U 1i
Navieation and traffic safety     O                  ++                0    0  O 0
Recreation (vachting. motorized water sports etc.)  0    4- -       +              - O O
Nuisance for residents                               0  1 0      0   10   O    I O
Area outside the direct vicinitv of the work         0        O |O         O  0   10 
Environmaental stress (noise, exhaust gas emissions  0    U  U    I U
etc.)                    .__ L                        -     _ _
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                           13
December 1999



This applies to the state of the environment with regard to the element in question:
It: potential improvement, 4: insignificant improvement, ---: visible improvement, -  - 1:
considerable improvement, 0: neutral, U: potential hazard, -  insignificant degradation, --:
degradation, ---: significant degradation, *: indirect impact.
Table 3. ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF THE KATOWICKI PENINISULA AND
OSTR6W GRAB OWSKI INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT ON THE ENVIRONMENT
Area of conflict                         Options
No. I  No. 2  "No. 3   No. 4  'No.5
I Level of conflict during continuous operation  _      _         _
!Hydraulics                              I 1     0        -       0      __I
'N>agation and traffic safery             O      Ti      !        TI |_____
Environmental risk (pollution. decline of  0    I _      _ I
wNater resources. noise, odorous.
electromagnetic radiation)                      ,       i _      _
1 Permranentrequireddepth                 0       _       -       - 0_
lmpact on the salinity_of por_waters _   0    fi o               f      _____
Fishing and angling                      0   O           _      t l      __-_
Aquatic animals and plants in the svstem of  0    /
port waters                              _              I _
j Land flora and fauna                    0 0             _       _
L Lithosphere                              0      J I             J !K
Recreation (yachting. motorized water    0       0              +
Ispons. pleasure boats etc.)             I        I               _             i
ILandscape features                       0 | O                  ] 1
Water Qualinr                            O               -        -      _
Estuarv flood hazard                     0      j        * _     * 
Level of conflict during construction work
Water qualir 0                                  -       _      -- I          -
'Aquatic animais and plants ir, the estuary  0             /-    1+-       i-
(the Odra - Szczecin Lagoon - the Baltic
Sea)                                                                           !
Fishin2                                 [0      I- +_- -_
Land flora and fauna                     0       _       _       I       _
I Navigation and traffic safetv           0       0       _O -    -  - --
I Recreation (vachting, motorized water   °      r-      'z      V       i
i sports. pleasure boats etc.)            _       _                 __ ___
INuisance for residents and users ofthe land   0                  --    I--
Environmental stress (noise. exhaust gas  0                     1 --     -
emissions etc.)                          _              I _             I
LAra outside the direct viciniry of the work    0   I *  j *    1 *      *
This applies to the state of the environment with regard to the element in question:
ft: potential improvement, -: insignificant improvement,  -+: visible improvement, - I-l:
considerable improvement, 0: neutral, I: potential hazard, -: insignificant degradation, --
degradation,   : significant degradation, *: indirect impact.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                               14
December 1999



6.2. Selection of an option
On analyzing the options presented it is clear that the most appropriate course of action is to
undertake hydrotechnical development according to option 3. assumring that the depth of the
canals will be that specified in option 6. This approach would allow hydrotechnical
development of the sea waterway to be carried out at a later date according to option 4, where
the depth of the canals would be that specified in option 7.
All the options for approaches to the modernization of the sea waterwav require construction
of a newZ breakwater system at the entrance to Piastowski Canal from Szczecin Lagoon.
Construction of breakwaters according to the plan descriDed, besides improving the water flow
and navigational conditions, would allow natural removal of depressions in the area of Fairway
Gate I.
On the basis of the selection criteria specified in the introduction, options 3 and 6 have
been selected for the sea waterway, and option 5 has been selected for the infrastructure
of Katcwicki Peninsula and Ostrow Grabowski. The decisive factors for selection were that
the approach be integrated and that the final result be compatible (especially economically),
and feature a realistic time frame and construction schedule.
7. PLA4/ FOR MANAGIVG TIE ENIVOAMEAT
With regard to the planned work on the investment project to modernize elements of the port
infrastmcture, plans provide for integration of the project with the existing structure for
administration of the environment in the West Pomeranian Province. The diagram below also
shows the role of the investor. that is the Maritime Office in Szczecin and the. Szczecin -
Swinov4cie Pon Authority, in the monitoring and management of the environment where
preparation and construction work wil be carried out and where the facilities delivered for use
as part of the project will be operated.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                  15
December 1999



BIOCK DIAGRAM FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE ENVIRONMENT IN
CONNECTION WITH THE PROJECT FOR MODERNISATION OF THE PORT
INFRASTRUCTURE
Ministry Of Environment
|   nistry Of Transport and Maritime Erconomy
Warsaw
/     \   g ~~~Terenowe       /\I
/       \ I  ~~~~~sh    '  \   /     
sanatamne
VOIVODE of
WESTERN
POMvBRANIA
1                A1 ~~~~~~COS j NLIE
Experts: Maritime Academy. Maritime Institute, Agricultural
Academy. Szczecin University. other experts and consultants
FINAL DIPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTITVE SUMMARY.           16
December 1999



In the area of the project to modernize elements of the port infrastructure there are
government agencies which are involved in protection and management of the environment and
also inspection (colored in yellow), which are responsile for issuing final approval for
investment projects, provided they meet the requirements of the environmental impact
assessment. The most important territorial local government bodies with regard to this
approval are marked in gray. along with specialst serices that are dependent on them.
Responsibility for management of the environment in the area of the project to modernize
elements of the port infrastructure is also held by existing environmental protection services
which monitor on a daily basis or at short intervals the whole area admninistered by the
Szczecin Maritime Office and the Szczecin - Swinouipsie Port Authority. These include
stationary monitoring posts and monitoring ships. Tests and monitoring of the environment
(with regrard to land, water and air pollution) are also carried out on the commission of the
Investor and the local authorities. These institutions are colored in violet.
7.1. Preventive measures
The natural environment subject to influences resulting from the planned modernization of
elements of port ifriastructure will be disturbed only to the planned extent within the following
biosystems:
-  land biosvstem - mostly of anthropogenic origin (isles formed as a result of regulation of
the port water system. deposition of dredging spoil. embanlments of new canals),
*  aquatic biosvstem - generally, it is heavily polluted within the Szczecin Port and Szczecin
Lagoon.
No protected species of plants or animals (land or aquatic) occur in the area covered by the
planned investment project. Re-ardless of this fact the intended interference in the natural
environment will be restricted as far as possible. Generally. the project tasks which interfere in
the natural environment will mainly consist of securing land phytocoenoses that are not
designated for removal. The aquatic environment will be secured against degradation caused
by effluent fiowincz from dredging spoil deposited on land. This will be done by means of strict
monitoring which will be carried out by the Environmental Protection Inspectorate or
speciali7zed services hired by the Szczecin Maritime Office or the Szczecin - CBwinoujcrcie Port
Authority. Such handling of the most environmentally unfriendly element will be the key issue
of environmental management.
7.2. Environmental controls
Prior to the cormmencement of earth work (especially large scale earth work) within the areas
covered by port infrastructure of Katowicki Peninsula. Ostr6w Grabowski and the waterway.
the initial condition of the natural environment must be determined because the first stage of
port infrastructure modernization will involve initiation of work which ma) deteriorate the
condition of the natural environment within the Port in terms of contamination with heavy
metals and PCB. Regional monitoring performed by the Environmental Protection lnspectorate
of Szc2zeci covers only a few points on the Odra within the city of Szczecin and Szczecin
Lagoon. Independent specialized laboratories of the Szczecin Agricultural Academy or the
Provincial Sanitary and Epidemiological Station can be comrnmissioned to examine the condition
of the lithosphere and waters. In order to ensure a real monitoring of the natural environment
within the area subject to modernization of Szczecin - twinoujgcie Port's infrastructure it is
necessary to carry out ongoing control of port waters in sensitive points of Regalica and
FINAL UMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXEcUTivE SUMMvzARY.                 1 7
December 1999



Pamica rivers, in Roztoka Odrzanska, on the fairway within Szczecin Lagoon as weD as in
Piastowski and Mieliiski Canls and on the river Swina. The frequency of aquatic environment
monitoring should be no less than 6 times per limnological year and at least 4 times per
calendar year in case of land environment.
Additional detailed environmental monitoring tasks directly linked with the port inrastructure
modernization wil be identified during the design stage. The interest of the natural
environrment (both land and aquatic biosystems) must be taken into consideration at the stage
of.
*  work on a detailed concept of the project,
*  preparation of a design based on recommendations resulting from  the assessment of
environmental impact of poTt infrastructure modernizationm
*  implementation of the project,
*  operation of modernized elements of port infrastructure.
Table 4.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT WITHIIN THE AREA SUjBJECT TO PORT
NFASTRUCTURE MODERNISATION DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION
No.   Specification                       Biosvsteni   Potential       I Estinated cost|
amonitonrng      (per annum in
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   I agencies  PLN,
1.    ENVIRONTME)NTAL MONITORING    I Land           IENVIRONNENTAL   100000
(aDiotic                           INS~~~~~PROECTIORNE
(abiotic and biotic qualities of the natural   PROTECTION
enivironment  relating  to  selected           AGRICULTURAL
ecoloc-ical  indicators  of  producers, !     IACADEMY
coa)nsumers and                   | Aquatic    I ERONMEN         200
PROTECTi-ON
recvclers)                                     IN SPECTORATE.
IAGRICULTURAL
It  _   ____ lACADEMY        -
|2.    PIREVErNTIVE  MEASURES  -  state Land           SZCZECN          i200000#1*
l qrencies. Maritime Office, the Szczecin -    MPTIME  OFFlCE
SwAinoujscie  Port  Authority,  and            SERVICES
specialized  services  organized  for !
elimination   of   consequences   of Aquatic    SAME AS ABOVE   1200000*
breakdow,ns, disasters, fires etc. within 
the Port and inner sea waters      l _    _     _
3.    DREDGING   SPOIL   AD    SILT Land wNithin THE COMMUNE OF 150000
STORAGE SITE - organization and the Port    SZCZECIN,
operation of existing storage sites and a      SWINOUJSCIE PORT
new storage site                                AUTHOPJTY
Szczecin    CO ES.           150000
La2oon   SZCZECIN,
Lagoon      MARITIME  OFFICE'
AGRICULTURAL
________ ACADEMY              _
TOTAL COSTS                                                            i 1000000
Note: As:erisk (*) refers to temporary measures to be used only in case of breakdowns, disaster etc.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                           18
December 1999



7.3. Sediment managenent during port infrastructure modernization
Modernization of port infrastructure will involve removal of dredging spoil by various
methods. Data contained in Table 1 shows that most of bottom material both in the port basins
and within the fairway is contaminated with heavy metals. Therefore. the contractor will have
to establish sites for depositing dredging spoil depending on the degree of spoil contamination
(Table 5). However, it is envisaged that a considerable amount of dredging spoil will be used
to prepare the ground for infrastructure both on Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski.
For ecorLomic reasons dredging work on the sea waterway requires that spoil be stored on sites
within Szczecin Lazoon and not those near the Szczecin Port.
Table 5. PROJECTED AMOUNTS OF CONTAMINATED SEDIMENTS GENERATED AS
A RESU LT OF MODERNISATION OF PORT'S INFRASTRUCTURE ELEMENTS
Sediment contamination  Percentage  of  total Planned dredging spoiJ Area in km'
planned  volume   of volume in cubic meters
dredging spoil      I      _                 _
Ciean               44.6                 564636               2 2.62
ISliaht)v contaminated    39.c _          500070               2.32 
ContamirLated       110.5                1 132930             10.62
| Heavily cntamiated      5.4            1 68364              10.32
I TOTAL _            1 00.0              11266000              I 5.88
Projected costs of arranging spoil storage sites and dumping fields for creation of overload
embankments will be around I I milion PLN (Tables 6. 7 and 8).
7.3.1. Problems concerning location of sediment storage sites
The Maritime Office in Szczecin is competent to decide about storage of dredging spoil from
the port and the fairway in dumping fields located on land owned y municipal authorities.
tHowever due to the existing territorial division (the area covered by the modernization project
is governed by many communes) local authorities demand that the Maritime Office pay for
storage of dredging spoil pursuant to the Waste. Management Act. Disposal of dredging spoil
into water is possible in the areas located within the zone of territorial sea waters managed by
the Maritime Office of Szczecin. This is however an environmental problem (destruction of the
ground layer, etc.).
Durmping into the sea is envisaged only writh regard to sandy material with a low degree of
chernical contamination to be dredged from the northern fairway.
At the planning stage of new dumping fields and spoil storage sites their status will be defined
to determine responsibilities of particular organs of state administration and local authorities.
This is important that the legal activity in order to changing the Waste Management Act is in
progress in a Polish Parliament. The intention is to exclude the non-polluted dredging spoil
from the waste category. The changing is to be expected in early 2000.
7.3.2. 1)redging spoil management within Katowicki Peninsula and Ostrow Grabowski
The ground to be dredged in the area of Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski consts
in part of uncontaminated or slightly contaminated mineral materials as well as mineral/organic
FINAL IMPASCT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTfVE SUMIARy.                  19
December 1999



and organic mnaterials which are contaminated to a certain extent. Mineral and mineral/organic
materials will be used for raising the area and for construction of quays. Organic materials will
be deposited on the nearby existing dumping fields.
Additionally. supplementary monitoring of dredged materials should be carried out during the
dredging work in order to determine their contamination with heavy metals and chloro-organic
compounds. Due to a large volume of the ground planned to be displaced the total number of
samples to be taken cannot be less than 20.
7.3.3. Dredging spoil management within the sea waterway
Uncontaminated mineral material with organic matter content of less than 5% which will be
generated during modernizaTion of the inland section of the Swinouiscie - Szczecin waterway
(km 4900 - 18000) is to be used for repair and construction of bank reinforcements. The
remaining unused dredging spoil will be deposited in the Karsib6r "D" dumping field.
Similarly as in the case of infrastructure within Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski
supplementarv ionitoring should be carried out to control contamination of dredging spoil
wvith heavy metals and chloro-organic compounds. Considering the planned volume of
dredging spoil the number of samples to be taken should be no less than 15.
The above methods of dredging spoil handling wili not cause any additional adverse
consequences for the natural enrironment.
7.4. Dredging spoil management after completion of modernization work
7.4.1. Dredging spoil management within Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski
The capacities of dumping fields existing within the commune of Szczecin are already
exhausted or nil soon be exhausted. Tnerefore it -wll be necessary to establish in the future
new durnping fields in locations which will not have a significant impact upon the quality of the
natural environment. These new dumping fields should be prepared so that to prevent flow of
contaminated effluent into surface waters or inside the ground layer e.g. by application of
geomembranes. Materials with high content of pollutants (mostly organic dredging spoil and
earth) should be separated from clean materials and stored in controlled conditions on separate
and additionally secured sites.
Costs of preparation of these storage sites can be included in the budget of the planned
infrastructure project for the area of Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski. In this case
the costs of the planned project will be higher but this will ensure a storage space for dredging
spoil to be generated in the future in order to maintain requisite depth of port basins and canals
in modernized areas. If these costs are not included in the project budget it will be necessary to
use existing dumping fields within the Szczecin - Swinoujscie Port Complex. This will involve
the need to transport dredging spoil to distant storage sites which will also result in increased
costs.
7.4.2. Dredging spoil management within the sea waterway
The capacity of the Karsib6r "D" dumping field is considerably larger than that of durnping
areas within the Szczecin Port. In the vicinity of the sea waterway there are also other dumping
fields (Karsib6r "A", "B" and "C") which can be used if necessary. Sandy, clean dredging spoil
from this area may be utilized or stored without any restrictions. Storage is, of course, allowed
FI1AL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                  20
December 1999



only on designated sites which are not located within sections of the natural environment
subject to protection.
7.5. M6onitoring of dredging spoil after completion of port infrastructure modernization
Decisiors concerning the manner of utilization or storage of dredging spoil should be based on
the results of tests of contamiination of dredging spoil with heavy metals and chloro-organic
compounds. Depending on the point of dredging, scope of tests can be extended. The number
of samples should be established on a case by case basis, depending on the volume of dredging
spoil. The manner of collection of samples will depend on the thickness of spoil.
8.   implementation costs (environmental protection costs of the planned investment
project)
Implementation costs of proposed solutions will of course, depend on the scale and scope of
work provided for in the proposed options. Costs of execution of the selected option for the
sea waterway amount to around 237 miion PLN  (ca. 57 million USD). Complete
implementation costs of options concerning infrastructure of Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w
Grabowski amount to 112 million PLN (ca. 32.3 million USD). The total cost of port
infrastructure modeniization is 349 million PLN, i.e. 89.3 million USD.
Overhead costs of the investment project include a sum of around 0.25 USD which is
designated for monitoring and environmental management within the area of the investment
project (during modernization work and at the operating stage) as well as around 11 rmillion
PLN for establishment and operation of dredging spoil storage sites and dumping fields.
SzczecinL 08.12.1999
ENCLOSURES
1. Authors of this Report
*  Prof: Juliusz C. CHOJNACKI. an expert for the Minister of Environmental Protection,
Natuiral Resources and Forestry - team leader, Department of Sea Ecology and
Envirom-nental Protection, Agricultural Academy in Szczecin, tel. +48914321061 ext. 327,
e-rrumil: marecoltfish.ar.szczecin.pl
*  Prof: Mikolaj PROTASOWICKI - expert in ecotoxicology, Department of Toxicology,
Agricultural Academy in Szczecin, e-mail: pronik-esh.ar.szczecin.pl
*  Proi: Edward NIEDZWIECKI - soil science expert, Chair of Soil Science, Agricultural
Academy in Szczecin
*  Bronislaw GAZIN7SKI, M.Sc. - chief desizner of the design office BPBM  BIMOR,
SzczecinL e-mail: bimor(lsz.home.pI
*  Witold MARSKI, M.Sc. - chief designer of the design office BPBM BIMOR, Szczecin, e-
mail: bimorq-sz.home.pl
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                 21
December 1999



2. References
1. Water Law of 24.10.1974 with amendments of 03.04.1993 (Journal of Acts of 1974,
No. 38, item 230; amendment: Journal of Acts of 1980, No. 3, item 6: 1983, No. 44, item
201 (art. 7); 1989, No. 139; 1989, No. 35, item 192; 1990, No. 34, item 198; 1990, No.
39, item 222; 1991. No. 32, item 131; 1991, No. 77, item 335; 1993, No. 40, item 183.
1994, No. 27, item 96,. 1995, No. 27, item 96; 1995, No. 47, item 243; 1996, No. 106,
item 496; 1997, No. 47, item 229, 1997, No. 88, item 554; 1997. No. 133, item 885;
Journal of Acts of 1998, No. 106, item 668).
Secondarn legislation:
1.1.  Ordinance of the Miinister of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry from 05.11.1991 concerning classification of waters and requirements
fQr sewage disposed of into waters or ground (Joumal of Acts of 1991, No.
116. item 503).
2.    The Act on Protection and Development of the Natural Environment from
:31.01.1980 (Journal of Acts of 1994, No. 49, item 196, 1995, No. 90, item 446; 1996,
No. 106, item 496, 1996, No. 132, item 622; 1997, No. 46, item 296: 1997, No. 96,
.item 592, 1997, No. 121, item 779, 1997, No. 133, item 885; Journal of Acts of 1998,
No. 106, item 668).
Secondarv legislation:
2.1.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protection. Natural Resources and
Forestry from  28.04.1998  concerning  permissible concentrations of air
pollutants (Journal ofActs of 1998, ANo. 55, item 355).
2.2.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protection. Natural Resources and
Forestry from 13.05.1998 concerning permissible noise levels (Journal of Acts
of 1998, No. 66, item 436).
2.3.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestrv from 03.09.1998 concerning methods of determination of air pollution
for existing and projected sources (Journal ofActs of 1998, No. 122, item 805).
2.4.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and
Forestry from 08.09.1998 concerning release into air of pollutants resulting
from technological processes and technical operations (Journal ofActs of 1998,
No. 121, item 793).
2.5.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protection. Natural Resources and
Forestry from 29.09.1998 concerning detailed principles for determination of
types and quantities of pollutants permitted to be released into air and
requirements for documentation requisite for issuance of decisions fixing types
and quantities of pollutants permitted to be released into air (Journal of Acts of
1998, NVo. 124, item 819).
2.6.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protectior4 Natural Resources and
Forestry from 11.08.1998 concerning detailed principles for protection against
radiation harmful for people and the natural environment, permissible levels of
radiation, and requirements for performance of control measurements (Journal
of Acts of 1998, ATo. 107. item 676).
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                  22
December 1999



3.    Environmental Protection Act of 16.10.1991 (Journal of Acts of 1991, No. 114, item
492; 1992, No. 54, item 254; 1994, No. 89, item 415; 1995, No. 147, item 713; 1996,
No. 91, item 409; 1997, NVo. 14, item 72; 1997, No. 43, item 272; 1997, No. 54, item
349; 1997, No. 133, item 885; Journal of Acts of 1998, No. 106, item 668).
SecondarJ leisation:
3-.1.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protection. Natural Resources and
Forestry from 06.01.1995 concerninig protection of species of animals (Journal
ofActs of 1995, No. 13, item 61).
3.2.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environmental Protection. Natural Resources and
Forestr, from 06.04.1995 concerning protection of species of plants (Journal of
Acts of 1995, No. 41, item 214).
4.    Building Law of 07.07.1994 (Journal of Acrs of 1994, No. 89, item 414: 1996, No.
J100, item 465: 1996, No. 106, item 496, 1996, No. 146, item 680: 1997, No. 88,
item554; 1997, No. 111, item 726; Journal ofActs of 1998, No. 106, item 668)
5.    Spatial Management Act of 07.07.1994 (consolidated text - Journal of Acts of 1999,
IVo. 15, item 139).
Secondary leaislation:
5.1.  Ordinance of the Minister of Environrmental Protection- Natural Resources and
Forestrv from 14.07.1998 concerning determination of types of investment
projects particularly detrimental to the environment and human health or
deteriorating the condition  of the  environment, and requirements for
environmental impact assessments of such investment projects (Journal of Acts
of 1998, No. 93, item 589).
6.   'Waste Management Act of 27.06.1997 (Journal of Acts of 1997, No. 96, item 592;
Journal ofActs of 1998, No. 106, item 668).
Secondarv le2islation:
65.1. Ordinance of the Minister of Enironmental Protection. Natural Resources and
Forestry from 24.12.1998 concerning waste classification (Journal of Acts of
1997, No. 162, item 1135).
3. MVeetings and public consultations
1. Polish Ecological Club - Westem Pomeranian Branch No. 1
2. Scientific Council of the Wolin National Park
FINAL IMPACr ASSESSMENT. EXECUT1VE SUMMARY.                  23
December 1999



3.1. Planned meeting and public consultations
I. Ep)loyees of Szczecin - Swinoujgcie Port AuthoriT'
2. Users of allotment gardens
3. Inhabitants of Ostr6w Grabowski
4. Environmental Protection League
5. Provincial Commission for the Protection of the Natural Environment of the Western
Pomieranian Province
6. Provincial Nature Conservation Officer
7. Academic Environmental Protection Inspectorate
4. Tables with key data
Table 6. Summary information concerning the Sea Waterwav
No.  Specification                         Fairway depth variant
I    m 10.5 m     12.5m
1.    Width at tne bottom                 I I 10 m          120 m
2._   Width at the water level             1200 m           |200 mi
3.   I Fairwav curve                       2000-3000 m     12000-3000 m
4.    Width at the bottom on the approach to  1200 m        200 m
Piastowski Canal from Szczecin Lagoon                 2
5.  ILenzth ofthewaterwav to beimodernized 113.1 km, 13.1 km
6.   1 Flow increase                      !0 %             1 20%
7.    Water speed at the bottom in canals  1 Similar to     Similar to current
_ -  I ___________________  Icurrent speeds                 speeds           l
8.   Increase of mean salinity in Szczecin  Insipificant    Insignificant
I   Lagoon                            I;I
9.   Impact of the Sea Waterway            lnsignificant    I Insignificant
modernization upon the condition of
I == Szczecin Lagoon
11.    Recreation of environmental conditions  I lnsignificant  Significant
Initial cost estirnated with accuracy of ca. 20%  for option 3 and 6 for the Sea Waterway, i.e. canals
(107.175.300 PLN) - breakwaters of Fairway Gate I (I Brama Torowa) - Szczecin Lagoon (129,000,000 PLN).
Total cost: 237 million PLN i.e. ca. 57 million USD.
4.2.   Summanry tables concerning the infrastructure of Eatowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w
Grabowski
Table 7. Scope and cost of infrastructure construction in Ostr6w Grabowski
No. I Structure or work            Parameters                  Quantitv/unit  Tota] cost in
of measure    PLNl
Preparatory work             removal of trees, demolition set           3 800 000
1.1 - Clearance ofthe site   etc.
1    1.:2 - Reconstruction of CPN's   access  rail  track i    3
rail track              discharging tracks +     siding 1 450 m    2 146 000
. _______________________  connection
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                             24
December 1999



1.3 - Drainage ditch                                       500 m
width at the bottom 0.6m;                 140 000
slope 1:1.5                   .            .       _
2    Displarcement of sandy soil   over a distance up to I 00 m -
bulldozers                 162 000 m3      1 782 000
over a distance up to I km -
_ _ ________________    trucks_________
3    Construction of embankment    sandy soil; maximum organic
using sandy soil obtained during  matter content 5 %     82 000 m3      1 886 000
drmedgin workl
Hydrotechnical facilities:   slab construction
4.1 - quay                   length - 442 m; depth - 10.5 442 m         23 868 000
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  nm
4    4.2 - RO-RO bridge            adjustable    with    steel
________________________  construction. hydraulic drive  set        1! 500 000
4.3 - Transition quay (from the   slab construcrion
side of Sp6ldzielcze Quay) length - 80 m-. depth - 6!10.5 80 m    Ij2 240 000
m
4.4 - Bank reinforcements (from  girt/slope construction
the north)              length - 160 m: slone 1: 3    160 m        1 280 000
5    Dredging workl               sandv soil with maxunum 1
-_____________________  lorganic matter content 5%       400 000 ir,      _ 7 200 000
6    Access rail track wiith deliverv tracks:  access  track,  +
anLd reception facility      discharging track - loading 2 200 m        2 860 000
track + transport track (by-
road.nass)
7    Access road                  two-lane road with a width of
7 m
I ODOm         1250 000
Power supply:                                            2 u
9.1- Transformer station     15 / 0.4 kV: 2 x I000 kVA   1 500 m       i285 000
SN 15 kV cable 3 x 120
9.2- Feeding cables         |mm2
9    Drinking water supply system  P p    D
t    {                    { ~~~~~PE pipe Dn 200        1 I500 min     67D5000
Toral cost                                                                    51112000 PLN
12788000 USD
- 22% VAT                                                                     62357000 PLN
15589160 USD
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTVE SUMMARY.                              25
December 1999



Table 8. :Scope and cost of infrastructure construction on Katowicki Peninsula
Quantity/unit Total  cost  in
No. Structure or work            Parameters              of measure   PLN
_ Ship harbor                 length - 100m; dep>th' )- 105 m       1,05.000
10.5m
2    Ship quav                   length - 250m; depth - 250 m         10,500.000
10.5m
3    Ship quay                   length - 140m;n depth - 140 m        4.536.000
1~ ~                    7.01m                      -~
4    RC-RO bridge                width - 14m; depth - set             3.276,000
7.Om
5    Ship harbor                 length - 140m; depth - 140 m         3,178.000
-_   ________    Thin _7.0m
6    Barge quay                 length - lOOm; depth - 100 m         11,950,000
4.5m
7    Barge quay                 length - 190m, depth - 190 m          3.705.000
4.5m
8    Bank reinforcements        length - 90m; depth - 90 m            765.000
0.5m
9    Bank reinforcements         length - 2Oim. depth - 1210 m        945.000
|O.Omrn
__        _    _   ___       !.  I__       _ _    _                               li_
Bank- reinforcements       length - 280m: depth - 280 m          1.260.000
O.Orn
11   Dredgngwork                 upto -10.5m / -4.5m    160,500 m'   2,648,000
12   Dredging work               up to -7.Om / -4.5m    190,000 m'    1,485,000
13   Overload embankment:       Tup to the level of +3.2m | 13 1,000 m'  2,856.000
a) field A               including arrangement of 27.000 m3    589.000
I) | e  |B dumping field
b) field B                            - 
14   Levelling embankment       lup to the level of +2.2m   I60,00 nJ'    ,170,000
15   Denmolition. displacement   underground    utilities, set       11200,000
Istructures    (buildings,|
Jbunker)                _
Total cost                                                            4,113,000 PLN
13,704.300 USD
50,157,900 PLN
+ 22% VAT                                                             16,719,300 USD
FINAL IDPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                          26
December 1999



e
5. Accompanving studies and reports
1. Maritime Design Bureau "BIMOR": Detailed guidelines for target hvdrotechnical
development of Swinoujscie - Szczecin fairwqv taking into account all kvdrological
phenomena within the mouth section of the Odra, in the inland section of the fairway
km 0.0 - 16.5. Part 1: Assessment of technical condition of existing hydrotechnical
structures. Parts II, III, IV: Concept of modernization of the sea waterway (multiple
optiosns) Szczecin 1998 - 1999.
2. Borowiec A. 1999: Elements of environmental impact assessment for the modernization
of the Swinouj9cie - Szczecin fairway. (Maritime Office of Szczecin - typescript 14 pp.).
3. Buchholz W. 1990: Materials for a monograph of the Lower Odra, hydrological and
hydrodynamic conditions. Polish Academy of Sciences, Institute of Hydro-engineering.
Gdaiisk. 22. 1-117.
4. Buchholz W. 1991: Monograph of the Lower Odra. Hydrology and hydrodynamics. Polish
Academy of Sciences, Institute of Hvdi.o-engineering. Gdafisk} 25.1-103.
5. Buchholz W. 1993: Hydrography and hydrology of the Lower Odra. In: The condition of
the natural environment in the Citv of Szczecin and its neighborhood. Threats and
protection (ed. J. Jasnowska). STN, 45 - 48.
6. Buchholz W. 1995: Some possibilities of exploiting and developing the Lower Odra.
Maritime Institute. Gdafisk-Szczecin, 1-58.
7. Chojnacki J.C. 1995: Biodiversitv of the natural environment o' Western Pomeranian.
In: Collection of papers for an International Conference. 26-27.08.1995 Szczecin, 80 -
89.
8. Chojnacki J.. 1997: Hydrobiological characteristics of the Odra and its estuary.
Typescript (18 pp).
9. Chojnacki J.C.. Ceronik E. 1993: Artificial reefs on Pomeranian Lagoon (Southern Baltic)
as biofiltration sites. Mat. 13 BMB Symposium. Riga, 6.
10. Chcjnacki J.C.. Chmielewska G.. Marska B.. 1993: Sewage Treatment Plant in Osrr6w
Grabowski in the Szczecin Port.
11. Chojnacki J.C., W. Kowalski 1998: Projected impact of port plan alteration upon aquatic
animnals and plants in the natural environment. Maritime Institute. J. (typescript ed. bv W.
Buchholz).
12. Chojnacki J.C., Palyga E.J. 1995: European ecological order and environmental
protection problems of the Baltic countries. Collection of papers for an International
CorLference. 26-27.08.1995 Szczecin pp. 267.
13. Chcijnacki J.C.. Zieniko J. 1996: Assessment of environmental impact of the storage facility
for dangerous materials located on "Kana! PrzemvsloKy " quay in the Szczecin Port.
14. Institute of Hydro-engineering, Polish Academy of Sciences: Detailed guidelines..
ibidem. Parl I Description of existing kvdrological, meteorological and ecological
conditions, and selection of representative hydrological situations. Part IT: Collection and
critical description of results of studies. Part II1: Development of a three-dimensional
digital model of the Odra Estuary ESTURO and determination of hydrodynamic
conditions and salinity in Swina Strait and Szczecin Lagoon under extreme flows
(including performance of tests). Part IV: Assessment of impact of proposed solutions
upon hydrodynamic conditions in the Swina Strait and hydrological and ecological
changes in Szczecin Lagoon. Part IVA: impact of modernization of the fairway from the
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                 27
December 1999



Pomeranian Lagoon to Szczecin Luagoon upon water level and salinity in Szczecin Lagoon
(includingperformance of tests) Gdafisk 1998 - 1999.
15. Institute of Sea Navigation. Marine Academy in Szczecin: Stage I Assessment of current
navigation conditions and existing navigation systems within the area between km 0.00
16.5. Stage II: Evaluation ofproposed solutions and preparation of Guidelines in terms of
navigation safety and impact of screw race and sea-way resulting from an increased
speed and size of ships using computer simulation - Szczecin 1999.
16. Komnifiski Cz. Czarnecka M. 1993: The climate of the city of Szczecin and its
neighborhood. In: Condition of the natural environment of the city of Szczecin and its
neighborhood. Threats and Protection. (Ed. J. Jasnowska) STN, 49 - 66.
17. Krzylcawski S.. Szypula J. 1993: Ichthyof-auna- In: Condition of the natural environment of
the city of Szczecin and its neighborhood. Threats and Protection. (Ed. J. Jasnowska)
STNI. 127 - 148.
18. Landsberg-Uczciwek M. 1995: Report on the condition of the natural environment in the
Szczecin  Province.  State  Environmental  Protection  Inspectorate  (Provincial
Environmental Protection Inspectorate). Ed. Mutko T., Environmental Monitoring
Library. Szczecin 1 - 195.
19. Mutko T. 2994: Szczecin Lagoon. Wlelki ZalewA Lagoon. Long-run qualitative changes.
Ed. Mutko T. State Environmental Protection Inspectorate, Environmental Monitoring
Library, Warsaw i - 85.
20. Projected impact of the spatial development plan for the Szczecin Pori upon the natural
environment - prepared by a team led by Prof Wiadyslaw Buchholz in July 1998 for the
Maritime Office in Szczecin.
21. Protasowicki M.. Niediwiecki E.. 1993: Heavy metals content in bottom sediments in the
ports of the Odra Estuary. Materials and Studies of the Maritime Institute of Fishing.
Gdyrai, Series S. 117- 120.
22. Protasowicki M.. NiediAiecki E. 1999: Contamination of bottom sediments. (typescript 7
pp).
23. Protasowicki M.. Nied2wiecki E., Ciereszko W.. Meller E.. 1994: Assessment of
contamination of selected elements of Szczecin Lagoon's ecosystem wAith some heavy
metals and chloro-organic compounds. In: Szczecin Lagoon - Zalew Wielki LagoorL
Long-run qualitative changes. State Environmental Protection Inspectorate. Warsaw, 63-
83 .
24. Report on the environmental impact of the pro.ect: Extension of port infrastructure on
Kalowicki Peninsula in the Szczecin Port. 1999. Anonymous. Typescript - copyright
Szczecin - Swinoujgcie Port Authority (13 pp).
25. Report on the environmental impact of the project: Extension of port infrastructure for
piece and conventional general cargo in Ostr6w Grabowski in the Szczecin Port. 1999.
Anonymous. Typescript - copyright Szczecin - Swinouj§cie Port Authority (12 pp).
26. Rotterdam Maritime Group: Study of modernization of Polish ports. The Maritime
Region of Szczecin and Swinoujscie. Outline of final report, Szczecin 1997.
27. Feasibility study of port infrastructure construction for piece and conventional general
cargo in Ostr6w Grabowski in the Szczecin Port - prepared by BP "BIMOR"' in June 1999
for the Szczecin - gwinouj§cie Port Authority.
28. Feasibility study of port infrastructure extension on Katowicki Peninsula in the Szczecin
Port - prepared by BP "BIMOR" in April 1997 for the Szczecin - Swinouj§cie Port
Authority.
29. Wirdheimn A., Chojnacki J.C.,1992: What is happening in the Baltic Sea? Swedish Society
for Nature Conservation. Stockholm. pp. 85.
FINAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.                  28
December 1999



