Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20552-POL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 29.3 MILLION
(US$ 27.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AND EUR 11.7 MILLION
(US$11.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO
ZARZAD MORSKIEGO PORTU SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE S.A.
(THE SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAPORT AUTHORITY)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY AND PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
November 15, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Poland and Baltic States Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRfENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2000)
Currency Unit = Polish New Zloty
PLN 1 = US$0.235
US$1.00= PLN 4.25
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD          =      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB           =      European Investment Bank
EMP           =      Environment Management Plan
EU            =      European Union
ERR           =      Economic Rate of Return
GOP           =      Government of Poland
ICB           =      International Competitive Bidding
IFAC          =      International Federation of Accountants
MIS           =      Management Information System
MTME          =      Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
MOS           =      Maritime Office Szczecin
PIT           =      Project Implementation Team
PKP           =      Polish State Railways
PMU           =      Project Management Unit
SCL          =       Single Currency Loan
SSSA         =       Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
TA            =      Technical Assistance
TEU           =      Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit
VAT           =      Value Added Tax
VTMS          =      Vessel Traffic Management System
Vice President:             Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:           Basil G. Kavalsky, ECCO9
Sector Director:            Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:             Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:        Graham Smith, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:           Marc H. Juhel, INFTD



POLAND
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY AND PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .......................................................................                                                 3
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE  AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .............................................3
B.  STRATEGIC  CONTEXT  ....................................................................... 3
I. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ............3
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .......................................................................                                 4
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ...............                                             ..........................5
C.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION  SUMMARY  ....................                                        ................................................... 6
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................................                                                        6
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT .................................................7
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION .......................................................................                                             7
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS .......................................................................  7
D.  PROJECT RATIONALE ....................................................................... 9
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ......................................................9
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ............ I 1
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ................................. ............................... 12
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ................................................................. 12
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT .13....................................................................... I 3
E.  SUMMARY  PROJECT ANALYSIS ....................................................................... 13
1. ECONOMIC  .......               ................................................................ 13
2. FINANCIAL  AND  FISCAL ....................................................................... 13
3. TECHNICAL .......................................................................                                                                15
4. SOCIAL .......................................................................                                                                   1 5
5. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ..........................                                                                                      -  15
6. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .......................... 16
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ................................ 16
1. SUSTAINABILITY ............................ 16
2. CRITICAL RISKS ............................                                                                                                       17
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS ............................. 8
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS ............................. 8
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITION ..........................                                                                                               18
2. OTHER .1...........................8
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ........................... 18
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ........................... 18



Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary for Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
Annex 6.     Financial Management Arrangements
Annex 7.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D.     Procurement Plan
Annex 8.     Project Implementation Plan - Seaway Component
Annex 9.     Project Implementation Plan - Port Component
Annex 10     Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit within the Szczecin-
Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
Annex 11     Project Procedures Manual -Szczecin Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
Annex 12     Recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment
Annex 13.    Establishment of a Containment Area for Dredged Materials
Annex 14.    Project Performance Indicators
Annex 15     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 16     Documents in Project File
Annex 17.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 18.    Country at a Glance
Maps IBRD 30667
IBRD 30668



Poland
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Poland and Baltic States
Date: November 15, 2000                             Task Team Leader: Marc H. Juhel
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky         Sector Manager: Eva Molnar
Project ID: PL-PA-8615 I Sector: Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:   Yes  [X] NO  |
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans:
Loan to the Republic of Poland
Amount EURO29.3 million (US$27.5 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                             Multicurrency     [X  Fixed Spread
Grace period (years):    5        []   Standard Variable     Fixed           [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:    15
Commitment fee:    0.75%
Front end fee:   1.0%
Financing plan including taxes (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Govemment                                                   27.4                0.5             27.9
IBRD                                                                           27.5             27.5
Total          27.4               28.0             55.4
Loan to Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (SSSA)
Amount EURO 11.7 million (US$11.0 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        [    Multicurrency     [X]| Fixed S read
Grace period (years):    5        [    Standard Variable     Fixed           [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:    15
Commitment fee:     0.75%
Front end fee:   1.0%
Financing plan including taxes (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority                      16.6                                16.6
IBRD                                                                 _         11.0             11.0
Total          16.6               11.0            27.6
Borrower: Republic of Poland (A); Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (B)
Guarantor:     Republic of Poland (B)
Responsible agencies: Maritime Office of Szczecin (A); Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (B)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):



Page 2
Loan to the Republic of Poland          2001         2002         2003         2004        2005
Semi-Annual             0.5   5.0 1 5.0   7.8   6.0   1.4   1.3   0.5
Cumulative         0.5          10.5         24.3         27.0         27.5
Loan to SSSA                                     I_ml
Semi-Annual             0.2   2.3 12.3   2.0 | 2.0   1. I I 1.0   0.1 I
Cumulative         0.2          4.8          8.8          10.9         11.0
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 04/28/01    Expected closing date: 06/30/05



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of Poland's port sector modernization program, as defined in 1995, is to promote Poland's trade
by developing an efficient administrative/managerial structure and improving physical facilities in the main
ports of Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-Swinoujscie. In this way they will provide efficient services in
competition with other ports serving their potential hinterlands, and facilitate private sector involvement in
commercial operations. Aflrst Project, approved in 1996, the ongoing Port Access and Management Project,
included the components which were of top priority for the overall modernization program and prerequisites
for further modernization and improvements, but mostly outside the port authorities' direct jurisdiction, aiming
in particular at correcting the lack of effective connections with the inland transport system. While this first
project was being implemented, a new legal framework for the port sector was being developed, to which the
Bank contributed through its continuous dialogue with the Government. The new port sector legislation,
enacted in August 1997, created the conditions for effective management of the sector in partnership between
the central Government, the municipalities and the private sector. A protracted implementation period led to
the establishment of the new port authorities vested with their full regulatory duties, in the course of 1999 only.
The proposed second Project, focussing on the Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie, would then constitute a second
stage of the Bank assistance to the port sector modernization program, moving to the practical implementation
of the new balance of roles and responsibilities between the local public authority and its potential private
partners.
Swinoujscie is at the mouth of the Odra River; Szczecin is about 80 km up the river. The proposed project
will help implement the newly established sectoral institutional framework in Szczecin, by strengthening the
landlord function of the new Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority through a concrete example of
capacity modernization and development in partnership with the private sector. The Port Authority, with the
help of the Bank, will upgrade and prepare the basic infrastructure required for private operators to develop
new operational facilities. The size of the public investment will be primarily defined by the expressed
requests of the future private operators, and the sequence of investments on both considered sites will
closely follow the needs of the market, so as to maximize the leverage effect on the total development cost
of modernized assets. Furthermore, the establishment of new operators within the port area will
simultaneously broaden the scope for competition among traditional bulk and general cargo traffic
operators. The project will also complete the program initiated under the first Port Access and Management
Project by improving maritime accesses and navigation safety between Szczecin and Swinoujscie.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16484-POL   Date of latest CAS discussion: April 14, 1997
Poland's maritime sector is recovering from the various blows it has received, including the impact of the
Eastern European crisis on ports and shipping, increased competition in global shipping and shipbuilding,
and significant changes in external trade orientations. But Poland's long Baltic coastline ensures that
maritime transport will continue to play an important role in the Polish economy, even as its trading patterns
change radically toward EU and other western markets. It offers an environment-friendly alternative to road
and rail transport for international cargo movements, but it can realize its potential only if it improves the
timeliness and reliability of the services offered while keeping their costs and prices low. Maritime transport
accounts for about 11% of the total national expenditures on transportation and its ports handle over 50
million tons per year. Poland has four main seaports: Gdanisk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Swinoujgcie. In 1998
Gdarisk handled 41% of the total, Gdynia 15%, and Szczecin and Swinouj§cie 37%. The port sector has
been affected by many of the same forces that have influenced the economy in general after the economic
transition of the early 1990s. With the nature and directions of Polish trade evolving rapidly from year to
year, investing in ports has been a risky business. International road transport, railways and pipelines are



Page 4
competing for the same traffic as the Polish ports. There is also strong competition amnong alternative routes
for cargo between major hub ports (Rotterdam, Hamburg) and eastern Baltic destinations. New port
infrastructure -breakwaters, channels, and land access-- is lumpy, fixed and costly; the State can ill afford
the large minimum investments needed without assurance that the new capacity will be well used. At the
same time, removing the potential bottlenecks that ports can become, for lack of adequate operational
capacity and safe access, is undoubtedly a major concern for the Polish authorities as they prepare for EU
accession.
Within this context, Szczecin, owing to its geographical location, has a specific card to play. Szczecin is the
closest maritime gateway to the Berlin area and a large part of eastern Germany, being only 140 km away
from Berlin, whereas the closest Germnan port, Rostock, is 240 km away from the German capital. This is
one of the main reasons which seems now to attract investors and transport operators to Szczecin, in
particular in view of the phasing out of the border controls between Poland and Germany which will follow
Poland accession to the EU. Several of the investors who have expressed interest in settling down on the
areas of the port to be improved under the proposed project have this strategy in mind. A second
phenomenon, complementary to this one, is the effort made by the EU to promote short-sea shipping as a
means to alleviate land transport congestion. A first review of the potential for Polish ports to benefit from
such a move in the medium term shows Szczecin as well positioned to receive traffic coming and going
between Baltic countries and western Europe, taking into consideration the connection Szczecin enjoys with
the Gernan inland waterway system.
The proposed project is consistent with the main CAS objective of increasing private sector participation in
infrastructure, which it aims to achieve by taking advantage of the new institutional framework to channel
private investments into operational facilities which for many years had been funded with Government
resources only. The development of new private sector activities in the Szczecin port is also in line with the
other main CAS objective of sustaining private sector growth by strengthening legal and regulatory
frameworks, since the proposed project components in Szczecin will constitute the first example of
public/private partnerships in developing port facilities since the establishment of the new port authorities.
In particular, it should help demonstrate the viability of the new regulatory regime in managing operational
contracts and fostering competition among port operators.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Opening up the ports sector to more private sector involvement in commercial operations is a major
objective of the new Ports Law, which took effect in August 1997 and is now finally being implemented.
Difficult legal and financial issues had to be sorted out before the transformation of the port companies, as
provided for in the law, could actually take place. This transformation was completed by the end of 1999,
and the newly established landlord port authorities have taken over from the previously existing public port
companies. In Szczecin, incorporation of the new Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (SSSA) as the
new port authority company fulfilling the requirements of the Ports Law was completed by December 1999.
On January 31, 2000, the former port authority company ceased to exist. Starting February 1, 2000, SSSA is
the port authority exercising all statutory and regulatory functions, as required by the law. SSSA is now in
the process of fine-tuning its organizational structure and consolidating its financial structure, including
establishing a corporate business plan as well as short and long-term budgetary forecasts. Establishment of
the new landlord port authorities also goes along with separating public statutory and regulatory functions
from commercial operations, the latter being then transferred to the private sector. This transfer has already
occurred in Gdansk and is expected to be finalized in Gdynia by the end of the year 2000. In Sczcecin-
Swinoujscie, an agreement has been reached between SSSA and the Ministry of State Treasury, its main
shareholder, on completing full divestiture of SSSA's remaining shares in the port operating companies
(45%) by 2003. The project technical assistance component will help address this particular issue. Putting
the system to work, and to work efficiently, is now the challenge for all stakeholders: the Government as the
main shareholder of the new landlord port authorities through the State Treasury, the Municipalities,
important minority shareholders, and the private sector, either in building partnerships with the port



Page 5
authorities to develop and operate commercial facilities, as proposed in the present project, or in becoming
minority shareholders of the port authorities themselves. In this latter case, careful monitoring will be
required from the port authorities to avoid potential conflicts of interest-a private shareholder linked to a
port operating company, for instance. Open access policies and competition rules will also be strengthened
through complete implementation of the new regulatory framework embedded in the sector law. It should
be noted that this process will also significantly increase contestability in the market for cargo handling
services and other ship support services, by opening up those markets, hitherto limited to existing port-
controlled companies, to outside investors, Polish or foreign.
The effective functioning of the new organization will in part hinge, on the public side, on how the
relationships between the port authorities and the so-called maritime offices are managed. The maritime
offices, which are in charge of maritime safety and sea access along the Polish coastline (there are three of
them, in Gdynia, Slupsk and Szczecin), have not been significantly affected by the reform process. They
were, and still remain, part of the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME), under the
Department of Maritime Administration, Shipping and Fisheries. But the services they provide, in particular
maintenance of the maritime accesses, are critical for the development of the ports, while the question of
how the cost of these services is recovered raises the issue of the financial relationships between the port
authorities and MTME. Since one explicit objective of the new institutional framework is to limit budgetary
transfers to the port authorities, to what extent the cost of services provided by the maritime offices within
their operational area should be borne by the port authorities deserves careful consideration. European
Union policy in this matter would push for elimination of all implicit subsidies, i.e. the ports should bear the
full cost generated by their activities, but one must notice that this is still far from being the case in
practically all EU member countries.
More generally, the EU accession agenda in the field of maritime and inland water transport, which are the
two areas of interest for the project, can be described as follows:
In Inland Water Transport, the EU technical legislation is derived largely from legislation that is already in
place on the Rhine and the Danube. The Polish industry already largely conforms to EU legislation. The
main area where EU legislation would have a significant impact is market access. Liberalization of market
access to the sector, through relaxation of the existing bilateral agreement between Poland and Germany,
will have a favorable impact on Polish inland waterway transport as costs in this sector are well below those
of German competitors. This will only enhance the expected benefits of the project to the Polish economy,
since development of inland waterborne transport between Szczecin and the Berlin area is one main result
expected from project implementation.
In Maritime Transport, freedom to provide maritime services already exists to and from Poland. As there is
already full competition between Polish and international operators on international routes there are no
major impacts expected from EU accession. As far as maritime safety is concerned, all EU legislation is
already implemented in Polish law and complied with by the maritime sector. Actually, Poland is the only
accession country that has full membership of the Paris Memorandum of Understanding on Port State
Control, and Polish Port State Control meets EU standards. In maritime policy however, although Poland is
a member of the International Maritime Organization and adheres to its regulations, EU regulations in the
field of maritime transport still have to be transposed into Polish law. The central objective of Polish
maritime policy is a strong maritime sector in Poland. In this respect, EU accession must be seen as a means
of providing support to this objective. No state aid is given to maritime companies in Poland.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Consistent with priorities established in the CAS (see B.1), the project will focus on sustaining private
sector growth through increased private sector participation in transport infrastructure development. This
will be achieved by supporting realization of basic port infrastructure assets required to offer viable
opportunities for development of private commercial operations, identified following assessment of explicit



Page 6
market demand. Simultaneously, the project will support improvements in protection of maritime accesses
and navigation safety in the Szczecin-Swinoujscie seaway, thus facilitating maritime traffic and enhancing
development of commercial opportunities.
The proposed project will therefore help put into practice the new relationships between the port authority,
as landlord and regulator, and the private sector, as investors and operators. The new port authority will
also have to agree with the Szczecin maritime office on how to compensate it, and to what extent, for the
investments contemplated to rehabilitate the Szczecin-Swinoujscie seaway, in relation to the issue described
above. For all practical purposes, and within the present institutional framework, both agree the only
realistic way to recover the costs on a direct user-pay basis would be through the port dues levied by SSSA
on all ships entering the seaway, the portion of these dues accounting for the seaway costs being transferred
back to the national budget. However, this would inevitably have an impact on the competitiveness of the
port in terms of tariff (recurrent maintenance costs of the seaway after rehabilitation would amount to about
5% of present yearly port dues, but full depreciation of the rehabilitation costs would reach about 20% of
present yearly port dues). Both MOS and SSSA are fully aware of the need to move along in this direction
within the context of EU accession, but this obviously has to be a progressive evolution adjusted to regional
market characteristics.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project focuses on the Szczecin-Swinoujscie port complex, with two distinct parts: (i) the Szczecin-
Swinoujscie seaway, which after having benefited from the implementation of a vessel traffic management
system (VTMS) financed under the Port Access and Management Project, is still in need of physical
rehabilitation (bank protection and southern entrance into the Piatkowski Canal) to complete the
modernization of the maritime access to Szczecin; and (ii) the Szczecin port itself, where two areas are to be
prepared and equipped with some basic port infrastructure to allow private investors to develop new
operational facilities.
a. Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway
The project includes strengthening the banks of parts of the channel, rebuilding intermediate
breakwaters, establishing new containment areas for dredged materials coming from maintenance dredging
activities, and providing technical assistance and training to define and implement environmentally sound
dredging methods (basically systematically separating potentially contaminated mud from usually clean
sand). This technical assistance and training program will be financed directly through MOS budget.
b. Szczecin Port
The project includes land preparation and construction of berthing facilities to provide additional
operational space to be leased out to private enterprises and operators, for cargo handling, storage and
packaging facilities, mainly for general cargo (food products, paper, steel products), containers, chemicals,
and industrial bulks on Grabowski Island and Katowice Peninsula. Eleven private companies have
expressed their willingness to develop operational superstructure on these two locations, for a total
estimated yearly traffic of about 5 million tons by 2010, including 45,000 containers (TEUs).



Page 7
MTME/MOS
Component               Categori       Cost cIn.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies  Total  financint    Bank-
environmentally____ sound) dredging(metodsUfor maitenance of epth in the seaway,thusM)   financingl
MTME/MOS
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway
Slope Protection                      1            29.8       54        14.9        54
Breakwaters                           1            22.1       40        11.1        40
Containment Area                      1             2.9        5         1.5         6
Consultants Services/TA/Training     NA               0.6        1         0.0 as n dir tn
Total        55.4      100        27.5      100
SSSA
Component               Category      Cost Inti.    % of    Bank-        % of
Contingencies  Total  financin      Bank-
Ioan _________________________   ___________      (US$M) amount:(USUM)            financing
Katowice Peninsula                      1            14.6       55         6.2       56
Grabowski Island                        1            11.8_n45              4.8       44
Ioan________amount:______               Total         26.4     100 111.0             100a
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support increased private sector participation in port activities in Szczecin by (i) helping
provide supporting infrastructure within the newly established landlord port regulatory framework, thus
fostering development of new public/private partnerships; and (ii) by improving maritime accesses and
navigation safety, thus consolidating the long-term viability of Szczecin port for regional trade. In
addition, the Training and Technical Assistance component will assist in implementing new
environmentally sound dredging methods for maintenance of depth in the seaway, thus significantly
improving the environmental sustainability of commercial operations in the Szczecin-Swinoujscie seaway
and port basins.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits in terms of more cost-effective port services, lower transit times and increased efficiency of the
sea/land interface in Szczecin will accrue directly to the Polish trading community, and are expected to
reach the national community as a whole, provided a sound commercial competitive framework pushes for
transport cost savings to be transferred to the final customer. Legal adjustments made in preparation for
EU accession increase the likelihood of this occurring.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executint! aa-encies:
The Republic of Poland will be the Borrower for the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway components. The
Maritime Office of Szczecin will be the implementing agency, under the guidance of MTME.
loan amount: US$27.5 million equivalent.
The Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (SSSA) will be the Borrower for the Katowice Peninsula and
Grabowski Island components, and will implement the investments.
loan amount: US$1 1. 0 million equivalent.



Page 8
Proiect coordination:
* MOS will implement the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway components through a Project Implementation
Team (PIT) established in MOS's offices in Szczecin.
* SSSA will implement the Port of Szczecin components through a Project Implementation Team (PIT)
established within the Port Authority offices in Szczecin.
Financial mana gement arranzements:
1.    Assessment of the Financial Management System. The assessment was perfonned in
February and June 2000. The overall risk is assessed as medium. Both MOS and SSSA have in
place minimum required internal controls and an information system.
2.    Disbursement. The loan to the Republic will initially disburse under the Bank's traditional
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) method, with the option of moving to disbursements based on Project
Management Reports (PMR) by agreement of the Borrower and the Bank. The loan to the seaport authority
will use solely direct disbursement. The full disbursement arrangements are presented in Annex 7.
3.    Reporting Arrangements: MOS and SSSA will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports
and annual Project Financial Statements. Additionally SSSA will prepare Annual Financial Statements of
SSSA according to International Accounting Standards, since its financial viability is vital to project
success.
At the time of assessment MOS and SSSA had insufficient capacity to start preparing full PMRs
which could be the basis for disbursement. Moreover in the case of MOS the Ministry of Finance will
require copies of invoices before authorizing the withdrawal of funds from the special account held in the
National Bank of Poland. Therefore no advances would be transferred to MOS. It is expected that MOS
and SSSA will be able to produce full PMRs within 18 months from the beginning of the Project.
The Annual Project Financial Statements will be prepared at the end of SSSA's and MOS's
accounting year, i.e. as at 30 June each year during the Project life and at the closing date of the Project.
Each annual project financial statement will include:
*     Project Sources and Uses of Funds showing separately the World Bank funds and other
counterparts received and expenditures on each project component both for the current year and
accumulated from the beginning of the project;
*     Special Account Statement showing the movements on the Special Account during the year (MOS
only);
*     Summary of Statements of Expenditures (this report should be made in case of disbursement made
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures) showing the number of withdrawal applications
together with the amounts (MOS only)
The Annual Project Financial Statements should be audited and submitted to the Bank together with the
auditor's opinion, report and management letter within 6 months after the end of the accounting year. The
Annual Financial Statements of SSSA should be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards. Like the project statements, the corporate Annual Financial Statement together with the
auditor's opinion, report and management letter should be submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the
end of each accounting year.



Page 9
4.    Audit Arrangements:
Audits of each borrower's Project Financial Statements and of SSSA's corporate Annual Financial
Statements will be performed annually for each fiscal year of the life of the project as well as at its
completion in compliance with the International Standards on Auditing as issued by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC). During negotiations it was agreed that each independent auditor would
be a member of a professional auditing and accounting body acceptable to the Bank, e.g. the National
Chamber of Auditors (Krajowa Izba Bieglych Rewidentow), which is due to become a member of IFAC.
The first audit of the Project Financial Statements is expected for the year 2001. However the first audit of
SSSA's financial statement according to International Accounting Standards is expected for year 2000.
The financial management system of each borrower, including their records and accounts, will be
maintained in accordance with appropriate Polish regulations and principles that respect International
Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee.
The scope of each borrower's Project audit will include an audit of each Annual Project Financial
Statement and additionally Summary Statements of Expenditures (in case disbursement is done on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures). The terms of reference are attached in Annex 6. Each auditor is expected
to issue an opinion on the Project Accounts, and for MOS the Special Account Statement and the Summary
Statement of Expenditures.
The auditors acceptable to the Bank were selected in November 2000.
Other reporting arranaements:
Annual Progress Reports. Each PIT will prepare and submit to the Bank annual progress reports no later
than April 30 of each year. The reports will contain the progress of each component and key indicators.
Quarterly Reports. In order to assure timely reporting to the Bank, the PITs will submit quarterly progress
reports to the Bank, including in particular the following indicators:
(a) status of procurement operations for each component;
(b) updated Project procurement plan;
(c) updated Project implementation timetable;
(d) status of loan commitments and disbursements;
(e) updated disbursement schedules;
(f) utilization of the Special Account (MOS);
(g) development indicators, as described in Annex 14.
Monitorine and evaluation arraneements:
Bank supervision. Bank supervision missions will take place at least twice a year or according to Project
requirements, and will include a transport economist, a port specialist, and at least once a year a financial
analyst.
Monitoring. Project monitoring will be based on indicators confirmed during appraisal, and on the PIP
prepared by the Borrowers, agreed during negotiations.
Mid-term review - to take place in FY 2003.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a. Maritime Accesses:
The Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway physical rehabilitation program has gone through several iterations to
optimize the design and coverage of the works agenda. The breakwaters are a large investment, but it is
not technically feasible to build them in phases. They are needed to reduce crosscurrents and turbulence
that might drive ships off course as they enter the canal from the sound. They also will serve to reduce



Page 10
scouring of the canal bed and hence will stabilize its profile. Hence both walls (east and west) need to be
built at once. Consideration has also been given to delaying the works to reconstruct the slope protection
(repairing the worst damage immediately, but spreading work on less-damaged sections over a longer
period). However, it is concluded that implementation as proposed will pay for itself in terms of avoided
recurrent maintenance works and dredging. The proposed components therefore minimize the investment
cost while ensuring that benefits in terms of easier access and better safety will be achieved, taking the
maximum advantage from the traffic management capacity provided by the implementation of the VTMS
system financed under the Port Access and Management Project.
b. Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie:
Commercial traffic in the port of Szczecin is undergoing a significant change, both in the import/export
balance and in the mix of cargoes. The years 1999 and 2000 have seen stabilization of cargo volumes, but
with different trends according to commodities. Coal in particular is expected to decrease, while there is
more demand for a variety of other industrial bulks (chemicals, bitumen) as shown in port statistics in
Annex 4. The slight decrease in general cargo, when compared to the requests expressed by potential
private developers (see Annex 2), seems better explained by the lack of appropriate facilities than by a
sheer decrease in demand. On the other hand, the shift in traffic structure does not make it realistically
possible to merely reassign port areas in order to match the new emerging demand structure. Though likely
to decrease, large bulk traffics like coal are not likely to disappear, and will therefore continue using the
present dedicated areas, which for environmental reasons cannot easily be shared with other kinds of
traffic, and in particular with general cargo. Moreover, the areas presently dedicated to general cargo and
containers are limited in size, narrow in shape, and do not lend themselves to effective reconfiguration due
to their location in the central port area. The infrastructure works proposed for the Katowice Peninsula and
the Grabowski Island are designed, and phased, according to market demand explicitly expressed by
prospective investors. The traffic forecasts for containers, in particular, are reasonable (40,000 TEUs per
year in the medium term) and match the needs expressed today by prospective operators. In both cases
project design has been optimized in order to reduce costs while meeting market requirements. In
particular, immediate construction of a longer quay length for both Grabowski and Katowice, to
accommodate more ships simultaneously, was evaluated, and rejected. It was concluded that the gradual
build-up of traffic did not warrant the construction of additional berths for several years. Construction in
two phases was selected, as it would not significantly increase the total cost; economies of scale would be
only minor. Taking into account the time-value of money, the phased approach will yield a higher retum.
It is also worth noting that the two project locations will become much more easily accessible from the
main road network once the two bridges over the Regalica and Pamica river, financed under the Port
Access and Management Project and under construction, are completed in 2001-2000.



Page I 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Project                      Ratings
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed in Poland
Transport Sector Restructuring and     First Transport Project         S               HS
Management Reform                     (closed Dec.31, 1996)
Roads Network Management, Road Safety   Roads Project                  S               HS
and Combined Transport
Port Institutional Reform and Transport  Port Access and               S                S
Bottlenecks Removal                    Management Project
Road Network Development and           Second Roads Project            S                S
Modernization
Railways Institutional and Operational  Railways Restructuring
Restructuring                          Project (planned)
Bank-financed in ECA Region
Lithuania: Port Sector Modernization   Klaipeda Port Project           S                S
Albania: Port Sector Reform            Durres Port Project             S                S
Euronean Investment Bank
Railways Development                   First Transport Project -
Railways I
(closed Dec. 15, 1995)
Railways Modernization                 Railways II Project
Highway Development                    Highways Project
Railways Modernization                 Railways III Project
Motorways Development                 Motorway A-2 Project
Motorway A-4 Extension
Project
Eurovean Bank for Reconstruction and
Develonment
Motorway Modernization                 Motorway Development
Project
Railways Modernization                 Railways Modernization
Project
Railways Privatization
Project (planned)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed project is a direct follow-up to the Port Access and Management Project under
implementation, and is effectively the second phase of the Port Sector Modernization Program supported by
the Bank. The Bank has been deeply involved in modernizing port sectors in numerous countries over the
years, and in particular, during the last ten years, in helping define and implement new institutional and
managerial frameworks conducive to more cost-effective delivery of port services. Rehabilitation and
modernization of general cargo and container facilities have constituted the bulk of these projects, so the
lessons learned so far in this area are already quite significant.
Borrower's commitment has been recognized as a major prerequisite for project success (see D.4 below).
On the institutional side, experience shows that basic choices should be made as early as possible in the
project cycle. The decision to run a port under the landlord principle has implications for land ownership,
regulatory environment for private operators, cost recovery policy and distribution of charges between ships
and cargo, among other matters. The choices must then be clarified early on, so that a clear and coherent
policy can be worked out and implemented ahead of individual development activities. This was the
rationale for waiting until the new Port Law was enacted, and then fully implemented with the establishment
of new landlord port authorities, before going ahead with the modernization operations now proposed. It
resulted in delays in project preparation, owing to the protracted period of implementation of the new legal
framework, but was seen as the only reasonable way to realistically bring the private sector to play its full
part in the proposed developments.
Another critical aspect for success in project implementation lies with the real autonomy of landlord port
authorities in management and administration matters. The thrust of the new Port Law is clear in this area,
since it aims at reducing, to the largest possible extent, any budgetary transfer from the national budget to
the autonomous port authorities, leaving them standing on their own feet, with the municipalities becoming
their main partners.
Similarly, the law addresses another crucial point: the necessary separation between statutory and regulatory
functions vested in the public port authority, and the commercial activities to be carried out by independent
private operators. The project illustrates this principle by limiting the investments of the port authority to
providing access and basic infrastructure, while all operational assets, including handling equipment
previously financed by the ports, are left to be financed and operated by the private sector.
Finally, another feature of reform of port authorities today, which seems to be beneficial to their managerial
efficiency, is their gradual move from the status of statutory company to the status of joint-stock company.
The concept retained for the three main Polish ports in the law, the joint-stock company of public utility,
reflects this evolution by establishing a structure where, apart from the central Treasury, municipalities
become important shareholders sitting on the management board of the port authorities. This is the case in
the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port Authority, where the cities of Szczecin and Swinoujscie together hold 49% of
the shares.
Project design therefore followed closely the institutional evolution supported during preparation of both the
Port Access and Management Project and the present one, with direct lending to a new port authority
preferred to an onlending arrangement from MTME, to strengthen empowerment of the new entity and
underscore its financial autonomy, while clearly delineating the distribution of responsibilities between
MTME and the Ports.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Polish Government, and in particular MTME, has been working with the Bank since I 994 to formulate
and implement the port sector institutional reform, then to design the modernization program required to



Page 13
bring existing port facilities to the efficiency level needed to take full advantage of the new policy and
regulatory framework. The ongoing Port Access and Modernization Project has been the first step in
implementing this program, and the proposed project constitutes the second phase, focussing at this point on
the Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie. The practical implementation of the new law, with the new Port
Authority now set up, confirns MTME's and the Port's commitment towards the reforn agenda supported
by the proposed operation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Consistent with the Bank's involvement in the port sector since the initiation of the reform program in 1993,
the proposed project would accelerate the opening up of the sector to increased private sector participation
and practically illustrate how the new institutional set-up works. Furthermnore, it will help manage and
mitigate a permanent environmental hazard by implementing new sound maintenance dredging methods,
which will benefit all dredging operations along the coastline and in domestic inland waterways. Other
international financing agencies (EBRD, EIB) are concentrating either on directly assisting local private
sector development or on other infrastructure sectors, as listed Section D 2 above.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4):
(a) Maritime Accesses: Physical Modernization of Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway
lX] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 40 million (DR=8%); ERR= 19%
(b) Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie: Katowice Peninsula
lX] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$31 million (DR=8%); ERR= 44%
(c) Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie: Grabowski Island
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$12 million (DR=8%); ERR= 22%
2. Financial and Fiscal: (see Annex 5):
(a) Seaport's financial performance: The audited financial accounts statements of the existing Szczecin-
Swinoujscie Port Authority were submitted for the years 1993 to 1998. For the transition year of 1999, audited
financial statements were submitted for both the old Port Authority and the new Seaport Authority (see the
attached summary of Income statements, Balance sheets, and Cash Flow statements). The financial situation is
sound, as the ports have practically no debt and have generated income allowing substantial investments at a
level of about $7 to 8 million per year in the last 5 years. However, the situation has slightly deteriorated in
recent years as the traffic level continued to decrease (from 16.2 millions tons in 1996 to 15.1 million in 1998),
but it recovered in 1999. While the operating revenues (mostly paid in foreign exchange) have increased
steadily over the period 1995 to 1999 by about 10% annually, the expenditures have increased slightly faster,
resulting in a reduction of the operating margin from a level of about 45% to 31% in 1999. The annual
depreciation amounts are in the range of about 9 % of net fixed assets and have increased to about 28 million
Zloty in 1998. This allowed investments using the port own resources of 34 million Zloty (or about $8 million)
for that year, in spite of a slight reduction in net income. Net income represented about 3% of operating
revenues, leaving a return on net fixed assets of less of 1% compared to about 2 to 3% yearly over the 1995-97
period. The Port has only small cash reserves of about 5 million Zloty, but its financial management appears
sound, making it an acceptable risk for the proposed loan, especially as the two port infrastructure areas to be
developed have been already reserved by private operators, who will also invest substantially to generate traffic
and income.



Page 14
The proposed project will help the new port authority in Szczecin-Swinoujscie increase its revenue streams,
and generate adequate return on assets, through increased traffic on one hand, and through additional land to
be leased to private operators on the other, following market demand. The size of the investment has been
fine-tuned to ensure it matches the requirements already expressed by the private developers, some of which
are already paying advanced rents to SSSA to secure their share of the new areas to be made available. This
situation guarantees adequate revenues for SSSA, and in turn will lead to increased fiscal transfers from
both the new port authority and the private operators. Overall fiscal impact of the proposed project is
therefore likely to be positive, and can be roughly assessed as follows:
(b) Fiscal impact: Additional private turnover generated by the project:
Port Operating Companies:  4.2 million tons @ US$2 + 24,000 TEUs @ US$80  US$10.3 million/year.
Developers/Industries:   4.4 million tons ( US$5 = US$22 million/year
Profit Rate: 10%
Profit Tax: 30% (as of 2000)
Expected Profit Tax Revenue: 32.3*0.1*0.3 =US$ I million/year
Expected Additional Tax Income:
VAT: 32.3 *0.22 = US$ 7.1 million/year
PIT: 32.3 *0.2*0.19 = US$ 1.2 million/year
Total Expected Fiscal Impact: US$ 9.3 million per year.
(c) Financial Management System: (see Annex 6)
Financial Management Assessment. The Bank's assessment of the Borrower's financial management
systems is presented in Annex 6 and Section C (Bank staff assessments).
The status of borrower's compliance with audit covenants. In 1999 Szczecin Swinoujgcie Port Authority
was split into two legally separate entities: Zarz4d Portu Szczecin -Swinoujscie S.A. (old SSPA holding the
assets of the Port) and Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin Swinouj§cie S.A. (new SSSA acting under the new
Port Law - this entity has income from fees and tariffs). The two entities were audited in 1999 by
"Finansista Sp. z o.o." and by "W. Frackowiak i Partnerzy Wielkopolska Grupa Auditingowa Sp. z o.o.".
The opinions of the auditors were clean. The management letters have been provided to the Bank. As at
February 1, 2000 the new SSSA acquired old SSPA. The closing balance was consolidated and constituted
the opening balance for the merged companies.
The flow of funds will be set separately for MOS and SSSA.
(i)    MOS - The funds from the Bank will be disbursed through a Special Account established in the
National Bank of Poland and Statements of Expenditures.
(ii)   SSSA - The funds from the Bank will be disbursed through direct payment procedures to the
contractors.
The financial management capacity of the two borrowers is assessed as fulfilling minimum Bank
requirements.
Banking Arrangements. Before the effectiveness of the loans both MOS and SSSA should provide the
Bank with specimen signatures (see Disbursement Handbook Annex 3) of persons authorized to sign the
"Application for withdrawal" of funds from the Bank.



Page 15
3. Technical:
The proposed project will address issues of access and safety on one hand, and help develop basic public
infrastructure facilities on the other, to pave the way for increased private sector involvement in port
operations.
a. Maritime Accesses:
Physical Modernization of Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway: This component is the follow-up to the
installation of a Vessel Traffic Management System (VTMS) financed under the Port Access and
Management Project. It includes strengthening the banks of parts of the channel, rebuilding intermediate
breakwaters, establishing contaimment areas for dredged materials, and providing technical assistance to
define and implement environmentally sound dredging methods.
b. Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie:
Katowice Peninsula: This component includes land preparation and construction of berthing facilities to
provide additional operational space to be leased out to private enterprises and operators, for cargo handling,
storage and packaging facilities, mainly for industrial bulks. Eight private companies have expressed their
willingness to develop operational superstructure on the Katowice peninsula, for a total estimated yearly
traffic of about 3.3 million tons in 2010 (see Annexes 2 and 4).
Grabowski Island: This component includes land preparation and construction of berthing facilities to
provide additional operational space to be leased out to private enterprises and operators, for cargo handling,
storage and packaging facilities, mainly for general cargo (food products, paper, steel products), containers,
and chemicals (methanol). Two private companies have expressed their willingness to develop operational
superstructure on the Grabowski Island, for a total estimated yearly traffic of about 1.7 million tons in 2010,
including 45,000 TEUs (see Annexes 2 and 4).
4. Social:
The project will have a significant social impact directly and indirectly by providing more jobs and income
to the region, allowing a further reduction of poverty related to unemployment. Development of new
activities in Szczecin should generate additional job opportunities. In particular, it will significantly help
mitigate the limited job losses that can be expected from the restructuring of existing port cargo handling
companies. Szczecin is a city with 420,000 inhabitants, and the average unemployment rate in the region is
16%, significantly higher than the national average of 13%. Providing new job opportunities is therefore a
valuable benefit of the project, which should therefore help the city catch up with the rest of the country. In
particular, strengthening the market prospects of the Szczecin Shipyard, which employs 8,500 workers
directly and keeps many more employed indirectly through its purchases, can play a significant part in
helping integrate unemployed people back into the local civil society.
5. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [X] A  [] B    [I] C
The major environmental issue is related to the possible contamination of the materials to be dredged from
the existing seaway channel. An appropriate dredging method during physical rehabilitation of the
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway will be established to comply with the environmental requirements.
However, the extent of dredging in all three project components will be relatively small, with only 5% of the
dredged material expected to be heavily contaminated. These materials will have to be dumped into
contained areas to prevent any spillage. To this end, the project includes the creation of a new dumping site,
the existing ones in Szczecin being close to saturation. Detailed engineering studies will include measures
to reduce any adverse environmental impact of the modernization works. The Environmental Impact
Assessment has been finalized in Polish following review of the draft EA by the Bank and discussions in the



Page 16
field in November 1999, and a updated draft in English was received in the Bank on December 22, 1999.
The document was reviewed by ECSSD/ENV before appraisal. The full EA, including all annexes, was
submitted to the Bank on January 25, 2000. The Environmental Management Plan was provided prior to
negotiations and deemed satisfactory. The MOS informed that five main parties had signed an agreement to
establish the proposed containment area for contaminated dredged materials, and that the Municipality of
Szczecin was processing confirmation of the proposed location. Final authorizations and preparation of
bidding documents were expected for mid-2002. The parties acknowledged that this site was intended for
spoils coming from future maintenance dredging operations and that contaminated materials expected from
the Project works could be accommodated at existing sites. The EA recommendations are attached in Annex
12.
6. Participatory approach.
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority, the Municipality of Szczecin, and maritime operators and
customers of port services are the primary beneficiaries of the project. By extension, Polish shippers,
importers or exporters, stand to benefit from improved nautical access conditions to the port and new
infrastructure facilities made available to commercial port operators. Both the Szczecin Municipality and
the private sector have been involved in project preparation, through market assessments and participation
of the Municipality as a shareholder of the new Port Authority company.
The Environmental Assessment was carried out in consultation with the following NGOs:
* Polish Ecology Club (Western Pomeranian branch)
*  Scientific Council of the Wolin National Park
* Local NGO Net.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other users of the ports, for fishing or leisure purposes, will benefit from the project in so far as the overall
safety of navigation within the port area and approaches will be enhanced.
c. Results Dissemination:
The Borrowers and the Bank will undertake to disseminate the results of the project (i) locally in meetings
with local stakeholders, and (ii) regionally in technical seminars with counterparts in neighboring countries,
so that the lessons of the project can be timely and widely shared among interested communities.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Privatization and commercialization are key elements of the Government's economic reform policy, so that
the establishment of "landlord" port authorities and the privatization of stevedoring and other port services
are expected to be sustained. All previous and most recent MTME transport policy documents (under
discussion in the government at the moment) confirm the commitment of Polish authorities to removing
bottlenecks and enhancing the competitiveness of the port sector to respond to the changing pattern of cargo
flows and the new opportunities offered by the integration of Poland into the European Union.
Implementing the provisions of this transport policy in the port and maritime sub-sectors, and the proposed
project in particular, will help further the objectives of the Ports Law of August 1997 (amended in June
1 999).
The implementation of a new sound institutional set-up establishing landlord port authorities and delineating
public and private functions within the sector bodes well for stable development and operations of port
facilities. In particular, the full establishment of SSSA as the single Port Authority company for Szczecin-
Swinoujscie on February 1, 2000, provides a clear financial and administrative framework to manage



Page 17
contractual relationships with the private sector, the activities of which will be developed as a consequence
of the project.
On the ministerial side, the improved definition of main statutory responsibilities, in navigation safety for
instance, significantly reduces the risk of seeing these tasks under-funded, as happened in the past.
Improvements brought about by the investments in the seaway therefore stand a strong chance of being
sustained and further developed in the years ahead.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Delays in completing the works and meeting  M       Thorough supervision and close
agreed deadlines with potential investors           monitoring of progress, with regular
disclosure of information to investors.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Availability of counterpart funding from the  M     Phasing in of project components
National Budget for MTME components                 according to budgetary possibilities
Financial sustainability of the new Port    M       Review of the Business Plan now
Company for port authority components               prepared by SSSA and of the needs to
adjust SSSA's tariff policy in light of the
new market conditions.
Disposal of contaminated dredged material   M       The EA provides an explicit plan to safely
handle dredged materials, and the project
includes the creation of a new contained
dumping site for heavily contaminated
soils.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
None.
2. Other:
*  Both borrowers should ensure that all measures necessary for carrying out the Environmental
Management Plan are taken
*  Both borrowers should monitor and evaluate achievement of the Project's objectives in
accordance with agreed performance indicators
* SSSA should earn an annual return of not less than 5% on current net fixed assets in operation
* SSSA should maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5
* SSSA should maintain a ratio of debt to the sum of debt and equity of not more than 0.5



Page 18
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. Detailed designs are being finalized and procurement operations have started with
the prequalification stage in August 2000. The General Procurement Notice was published in Development
Business on March 31, 2000.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plans have been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
___________                                      __/_2_____aX --_________
Program Team Leader, Graham Smith, ECSIN         Sector Director, Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Country                  V      --
Country Manager/Director: Basil G. Kavalsky



Annex I
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions and
Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Amount of private sector      Quarterly progress reports and   (Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustaining private sector    investments in Szczecin port    supervision missions       Failure of the new regulatory
growth through increased                                                                system to ensure long term
private sector participation in                            Follow-up by Bank resident   financial sustainability of
transport infrastructure                                   mission after project        private investments and
development                                                completion                   operations
Project Development          MOS:                                                       (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   *  Oversized Ships Traffic in   Quarterly progress reports and   Constraints to open market
Facilitate private sector        the Seaway               supervision missions          access in port services
involvement in port operations   *  Ship Sailing Time in
through improvement of           Piastowski Canal          Follow-up by Bank resident
physical facilities and better                             mission after project
navigation safety            SSSA:                         completion
*  Number of private port
operators
*  Monthly port traffic
statistics, including
container and ro-ro/ferry
traffic
*  Average ship service time
on new facilities
Outputs:                     MOS:                                                       (Outputs to Objective)
Improved navigation safety to    *  Piastowski Canal       Quarterly progress reports and   Failure to train adequately
approach and enter main Polish   maintenance costs        supervision missions          Maritime Office staff to use
ports                        *  Statistics on navigation                                new VTS equipment.
incidents on Piastowski
Canal
New basic infrastructure     SSSA:                                                      Delays in completing the works
facilities to be leased to private  Areas leased to private                             and meeting agreed deadlines
sector developers, following  operators (% of total available                           with potential investors.
market demand                areas)
Project Components/Sub-      Inputs: (budget for each     Quarterly progress reports and   (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2for  component, including         supervision missions
project description)         contingencies, in US$million)
MTME                                                                                    Availability of counterpart
Physical Modernization of    55.4                                                       funding from the National
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway                                                             Budget for MTME components
Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie:                                                           Financial sustainability of the
Katowice Peninsula           14.6                                                       new Sczcecin-Swinoujscie
SeaPort Authority Company
Grabowski Island             11.8



Annex 2
Page I of 2
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$54.8 million (total cost of component)
Physical Modernization of Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway:
The Szczecin-Swinoujscie seaway is 70 km long, from the anchorage area in Swinoujscie to the port of Szczecin.
The seaway has a nominal depth of 10.5 m. The seaway width, on average 90 m and in bends on average 130 m,
is the dominant restricting dimension. Relatively strong currents may occur on certain trajectories within the
seaway.
A wide variety of sea-going ships call at Szczecin and Swinoujscie, including tankers and chemical carriers
carrying dangerous liquids in bulk. Barges for inland traffic and ferries are adding to the traffic density. The
number of sea-going ships calls is expected to increase steadily in the coming 10 years, and among those the
ships carrying dangerous commodities will follow the same trend.
An analysis of accident probabilities suggests that, in view of the expected traffic growth, the situation can
become much more unfavorable unless the present level of safety management is improved. Measures to
improve the seaway configuration are therefore required to keep the risk figures at the present level without
hampering the expeditious flow of traffic.
The slope protection in the Piastowski canal, in the northern part of the seaway, is in poor condition and needs to
be repaired and upgraded. The breakwater at the Southern entrance of the canal is almost completely dilapidated
and does not protect passing ships from transverse currents any longer. If nothing is done, protection works and
the breakwater will deteriorate further, leading to landslips and the increased risk of grounding of ships. The
deteriorating banks will decrease the effective width of the channel and add to the already severe navigation
constraints.
The project includes strengthening the banks of parts of the channel over a total length of 2,600 meters on both
sides, rebuilding intermediate breakwaters, establishing containment areas for dredged materials in the vicinity of
Szczecin, and providing technical assistance to define and implement environmentally sound dredging methods
which will make it possible to separate potentially contaminated soils, like mud, from potentially clean ones, like
sands.
Slope protection:                               US$ 29.8 million
Breakwater:                                     US$ 22.1 million
Containment areas                               US$ 2.9 million
Total                                           US$ 54.8 million
Project Component 2 - US$0.6 million (total cost of component)
Maritime Office Szczecin Technical Assistance and Training:
This component provides for technical assistance and training to help MOS define and implement
environmentally sound dredging methods (basically systematically separating potentially contaminated mud
from usually clean sand).
This technical assistance and training program will be financed directly through MOS budget.



Annex 2
Paae 2 of 2
Project Component 3 - US$14.6 million (total cost of component)
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority: Katowice Peninsula:
This component includes land preparation and construction of berthing facilities to provide additional operational
space to be leased out to private enterprises and operators, for cargo handling, storage and packaging facilities,
mainly for industrial bulks. The works will include:
a) Construction of new berthing facilities along the peninsula: 410 m for sea-going vessels, and 80 m for river
barges
b) Bank/slope protection on 580 m along the banks not to be used for berthing purposes
c) Leveling and land preparation on 160,000 sqm.
Project Component 4 - US$11.8 million (total cost of component)
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority: Grabowski Island:
This component includes land preparation and construction of berthing facilities to provide additional operational
space to be leased out to private enterprises and operators, for cargo handling, storage and packaging facilities,
mainly for general cargo (food products, paper, steel products), and containers. The works will include:
a) Construction of new berthing facilities on 232 m along the western side of the island
b) Construction of a roll-on/roll-off platform
c) Bank/slope protection
d) Dredging 400,000 m3
e) Access road, drainage



Annex 3
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                               Local            Fore_2n        Total
------------------------US $ million--------------------
Szczecin Maritime Offie:
Modernization of Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway:
Slope Protection                                      12.5             12.5           25.0
Breakwaters                                            9.3              9.3           18.6
Containment Area for Dredged Materials                 1.2              1.2            2.4
Technical Assistance (MOS financed)                                 -                0.5            0.5
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                     2.3              2.3            4.6
Price (Exchange Rate) Contingencies (9%)                         2.1              2.2            4.3
Total Government Component                                         27.4             28.0           55.4
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority:
Katowice Peninsula:
Vessels Quays                                          2.9              2.9            5.8
Ro-Ro Berth                                            0.5              0.5            1.0
Bank Protection                                        0.1              0.2            0.3
Dredging                                               0.8              0.8            1.6
Embankments                                            0.5              0.5            1.0
Demolition                                             0.1              0.1            0.2
Grabowski Island:
Vessels Quays                                          1.9              1.8            3.7
Relocations/preparatory works                          0.7              0.8            1.5
Ro-Ro Berth                                            0.0              0.1            0.1
Bank Protection                                        0.2              0.1            0.3
Dredging                                               0.4              0.5            0.9
Earth works                                            0.2              0.1            0.3
Railway Access                                         0.3              0.4            0.7
Road Access                                            0.1              0.2            0.3
Utilities                                              0.2              0.1            0.3
Total Baseline Cost                                                 8.9              9.1           18.0
Value Added Tax (22% on Civil Works)                             4.2               -             4.2
Total Baseline Cost Including VAT                                  13.1              9.1           22.2
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                      1.3             0.9            2.2
Price (Exchange Rate) Contingencies (9%)                          1.2             0.8            2.0
Total Port Component                                               15.6             10.8           26.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                 43.0             38.8           81.8



Annex 4
Pane I of 13
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
(US$ million, base year 2000)
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal [mpact
Economic       Financial
Analysis       Analysis        Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits               US$81.8
million
Costs                  US$61.5
million
Net Benefits:                                         US$9.3 million
IRR:                   33% - 19%                      per year
Port Traffic Statistics (1992-1999) and Forecasts (2000-20 10) are displayed on the following page.



___         Szczecin-Swinoujscie PORT TRA .FFIC STA.TISTICS 1992-1999 and FORECAST 2000-2010
_______  (In Thousand Tons)  -         ~~1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997          1998     1999     2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010
T'otal ~Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port Authority (a)±Q(N_..   16,202   18,112   19,794  20.034  20,093   20,046    19,153    19,523   18,620   19,364   19,999   20,358  20,159   19,895   20,065   21,165   22,107  22,401   22,482
General growth trend in %:  ______  _____ 11.8%    9.3%         1.2%     0.3%     -0.2%    -4.5%     1.9%    -46%    4.0%       3.3%      1.8%    -1 0%    -1.3%    0.9%      5.5%     4.4%     13%X    0.4%
(a) Szczecin port total (i) + (ii)  -_________        11,453   11,894   13,6191 13,516   13,1171 13,362  1,60~3   12,961   12,8701 13,799   14,609   1513 15,214   15,170   15,350   16,505   17,507   17,861   18,002
Annual trend in %;                                            3.9%     14.5%    -0.8%    -3.0%    I 9%     -5.7%     2.8%     -0.7%  17.2%      5.9%     3.9%     0.2%    -0.3%      1.2%     7.5%     6.1%     2.0%     0.8%
(i) Szceezeia otduhest  epiai                          7,580    8,208    9,492    9,051    9,289    8.862    8,603     9,455    9,325    9,355    9,310    9,155    9,065    8,995    9,190    9,330    9,475    9,628    9,710
Annual trend in %:_____________    ___ 8.3%    15.6%   -4.6%    2.6%    -4.6%    -2.9%                               9.9%     -1.4%    0.3%  -0.5%  -1.7%  -1.0%           -0.8%    2.2%   _1.5%       1.6%     1.6%     0.9%
Coal       _______            _________                1,895    2,650    4,516_ 4,398__4 186__4,085    4,154  _4,823    4,860    4,530 -4,210  3--,890    3,560    3 230    3,150    3,035    2,925 __2,818    2,710
iron ore                                                810      445-    612        727     832      778       700       576      500      530     550      550       550     550       565      565      565      565      565
otherbulk cargo          _________    ~~~~1,639    1,669    1,394    1,2721  1,065    1,088    1,251     1,084 -  1,300    1,3101  1,320    1,325    1,330  :1-,34-0   1,370    1,400    1,4251  1,455    1,480
Grain                                                   543      4711    270       598      949      540       522      716       315      500     580      600      685       795      850      900      955    1,010    1,060
Timber                                                  271      124      128       5        38       42        49 -      53  __                                                              ________
general cargo    -                      ~~~~~ ~~~2,422  _ 2849    2,572    2,000    2,219    2,329  1,927  2__,20-3 _2,350    2,485    2,650-2,790    2,940    3,080    3,255    3,430    3,605    3,780    3,895
(i)Seein piaeoears() -3,873    3,686    4,127    4,465   3,828    4,500    4,000                                   3,506    3,545    3,405    3,400    3,395    3,390    3,385    335       ,35    3,335    3,332    3,330
incl. Katowice and Grabowski_new development           --____                                                                   3,545   4,444    5,299    6,0281  6,149    6,1751  6,1601  7,175    8,032    8,233    8,2921
Annual trend in %:                       ___         _       -4.8%    12.0%    8.2%    -14.3%   17.6%   -11.1%    -12.4%    1.1%    25.4%   192%    13.7%    2.0%    0.4%    -0.2%    16.5%    11.9%    2.5%            0.7%
Coal              _________                                __90                                                                        85       75       70       65  __60           55 __55  __55              52    50
iron ore                                                                                                        i~~~~~~~____14  40-   145    145      145         145   100      100       100-    100 _   100
other bulk cargo ~~____                                                                                             330      975    1,275    1,485    1485    1,485    1,485    1,860    2,220    2,220_ 2,220
Grain  ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ______250                                                                                           250 __800         800      800      800      800    1,050    1,100    1,150    1,150
_petroleurn___                                         __    _______                                                            1,100    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,450    1,600    1,600    1,L600
General cargo; plus steel prodw__ __                                                                               1500   -1500   -1,500    2000O   2,0         210      2,1600   2,350 _2.600    2,700    2,700
oth ~  cargo     _ Cotainer tonnag  only                                                     _____                   26      135      144      154      18       24       235      270      310      357      411 . 472
ofwhich Container         __12,000   12,4    379 1401                                                                                                696 1,41 22,358  25711   29~,5658  34,003   3,104  4496
_____rowth rate forecas  as   _________    ______                                                                 --        _7%           7%       7%      15%      1%       15%      15%      15%      15%       15       15
Containerization ratio___                                                                                                0,0  005         0.05      0.06     0.06     0.07     0.07     0.08     0.09     0.09     01
consultant's TEU    32,000                   consultant's TEU    66,800
'hi_Svvmounjscie port daughter Co.                     4,749    6,218    6,175    6,518   6,976    6,684    6,550       6,562    5,750    5,565    5,390    5,175    4,945  4,7,25    4,715    4,660    4,600    4,540     4,480
Annual trend ini %:                                          30.9%    -0.7%    5.6%     7.0%    -4.2%    -2.0%       0.2%   -12.4%  -3.2%   -3.1% -4.0%   -4.4%   -4.4%   -0.2%---1.2%  -t13%   -1.3% -1.31%
_________________________________________   ______  ______  ______                             ~~~~~~~4,000    3,735    3,460   -3190  -2,92 5    2,660    2,595    2,510    2,420    2,330    2,240
iron ore  ~ ~         ~        ~        ___                                 ___1,200    1,260    1,310    1,310    1,310    1,310    1,335  1,335    1,335    1,335    1,335
other bulk carg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                300      310      310      315      315      320      325      330      335  _340         345
Grain    ~_________                           ___   ___                           __100                                             100     130      170       195     225      240       255      270      285      300
_____                                             ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~150  160  180  190  200 __-210  220  230  240    250      260
Total Polish Ports -                    387  ~~~~~~50,49   5-2 3 84  417  89    50 985   50,996   49,700
(1) These ports operators are based within the Purts Authority boundaries on the Odra river. This excludes the_port of Police, an independent entity with traffic in the range of 3.5 million tons per year, mainly chemicaUlfertilizer cargo.
Sources: Szczecin-Swinusi SaotAuthority/131MOR Consultants, Januar  00,an    orld Bank staff estimates June 2000                 _____________________________
00
en>



Specific Traffic Projections for existing private operators in Szczecin port and future operators on Katowice and Grabowski Developments
~ and                                           in 000 tons _I_I                                                                            Variations in 000 Tons
19991    200       2001      2002      2003      2004      2005     2006      2007      2008      2009      2010            2000 to      2000 t
_____________________   ______  ______           ______~~1100  _ _ _    _ _                                                                                              2005         2010
(i) Szczecin Private operators (1) excluding future operators on
Katowice and Grabowski new_developments____ ____ ____ ____ ______________ _____
_______________________   ~Total     ____ ____               3,410     3,405     3,405    3,400     3,395    3,395    315         3,355     3,365     3,367     3,375 __              (15)         (35
coal                       _    _      __90                                       85        75        70        65        60        55        55         55       52       50                  3)40
iron ore                   _______    ___10                                      10        145       145       145       145      100F      10         00       10         0  __
other  bulk  cargo   ________  _______    _______    _______  330  330   335       335       335       340       3451     350       360       365       375   ___ _           l            45
grainI____20 250                                                                      250       250            250       250-    250F       250       250       250       20 ___         ____-                 -
petrolewn products        ____ _______1,100                                     1,100     1,100    1.100     1,100     1,j00     1,100     1.100     1,100    1,100      110__                     
general cargo             _______1,500                                          1,500    1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     1,500     I 500     I 500     1,500     1,500 __
(ii) Szczecin future private operators on
Katowice and Grabowski new developments________ ____ ________                                                                                                                          ______ _____
______________________    ~~Total tonnage      ____ ____               1,039     1,899    2,633     2,759    2,790    2,825       3,840     4.697     4,901     4,962               2,790        4,962
(a) Katowice new development        total      ___      J________                 895      1745      1955     1955      1955      1955      2680      3240      3290      3290                1,955        3,290
number of 4500 DWT vessels/y eu              199       388,      434      434       434       434       596       720       731       731 ________
other buk caro            ____subtotal   ____ ____ ____                          645       945      1155      1155      1155      1155     1530      1890      1890,    1890 ___              1,155       1.890
Paper                    ____                  ___                                        300       300       300       300       300       400    6 00         600       600  __             3600         600
Fertilizer                          ______ ____                                  110       ItO      320       320-      320       320       450       540       540       540 ___320                       540
Cement                                                                          250       250       2501      250       250 __250           350       400       400       400         ___ 250              400
Sulfuric acid              ________                                               S        150      1501      150       1-50     -15-0      15_0      150     -150        150 ___150 _____IS
Limestone                                                                        135       135       135      135   -135          135       180       200       200       200 ___135                       200
grain                               subtotal                                               550       550       550       550       5501     800       850       900       900 ______  550                   900
Operator 1                ____         __                                                  300      300       300       300       300       500       500       500       500                 300           500
Operator 2                                              ___                                250      250       250       250       250       300       350       400       400                 250          400o
netroleum products         _______                          ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~250  250  250  250  250  250  350    500        500      500                  250          500
(b) Grabowski development           total      ____           16        135       144       1541     678       804       835~   870        1,160     1,4571   1,611      1,672                  700        1,537
numsber of 7000 DWT vessels/y ar              21        2          7       15        19       124       166       20         3         3   __19239
Containers TonsOQ                                             126       135       144       154       1781     204       235       270       310       357       411    -472          -100                   337
in TEU           ____        12,000    12,80       7392!  14,701    16,906    19,441   22,358   25-,7 11    29,568   34,003    39,104    44,969 TEU  -         9,518       32,129
7%        7%       7%       15%        5%       15%       15%       15%1      15%       15%1      15%  ___ _____-                      -
Metallurncal Products              *subtotal                      _______                            500       600       600       600       850     1100       1200      1200 ___-600                     1,200
finished steel                                          _________100                                                    100       100       100       200       200       200 ___100                        200
scra  and in ut                ______  ______  ______  ______              ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~      ~~~500  500  500  500  750  9Ft)    1000  1000 ___-500                   1,000
Sources: Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority/B3IMOR Consultants, Januasy 200,adWrdBn  tf siae  ue20
co



Annex 4
Page 4 of 13
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Economic Evaluation
The benefits to be derived by the Polish economy from the proposed investments are:
1. Construction of breakwaters at southern entrance to Piastowski Canal and strengthening of canal
banks to preserve the canal's profile
The proposed investments will stabilize the canal's depth of 10.5m over a width of 120m and avoiding
deterioration of the profile. This will:
(a) preserve Szczecin Shipyard's ability to deliver new-built ships whose size is at the limit of what can pass
safely through the canal;
(b) avoid the need for large expenditures each year to maintain the canal's banks and dredge to restore the
canal's profile;
(c) avoid the need for speed restrictions and one-way-only operations during the passage of large ships,
reducing the time ships spend in the waterway; and
(d) reduce the risk of collisions and groundings in bad weather due to cross-currents and turbulence.
2. Construction of new berths and cargo handling and storage areas on Katowice Peninsula and
Grabowski Island
The proposed investments will provide facilities which, compared to Szczecin port's existing berths, are less
crowded and more custom-designed to the specific commodities. This will lower the costs of handling
existing traffic flows, enable Szczecin to attract traffic which would otherwise transit through other ports or
go overland, and make possible new trade flows which would otherwise have been deterred by high transport
costs. (These may be thought of as existing, diverted and generated traffic respectively.) In particular, the
construction of adjoining berths, which allow, for the first time, low-cost transshipment from river barges to
ocean-going ships, will attract water-borne traffic from Berlin and its vicinity. As Poland approaches EU
membership, this will enable Szczecin to play more fully its role of natural port for the Berlin area.
A. Breakwater at Southern Entrance to Piastowski Canal and Slope Protection
I .    The MOS's consultants provided estimates of the benefits to be gained from improving the seaway's
navigability, reducing the collision risk, and avoiding recurrent maintenance outlays. To this the Bank added
its own estimate of the benefits to the Szczecin Shipyard, using information gleaned from the company's
annual financial reports and an interview with its senior management.
Value added by Szczecin Shipvard
2.     Szczecin Shipyard is one of the largest private companies in Poland. In 1999 it was also the third
largest shipyard in the world in terms of numbers of contracts. The dozen largest shipyards in the world are
otherwise all Korean and Japanese. The Szczecin yard specializes in large container ships and medium-size
dry bulk carriers and chemical tankers of up to 40,000 DWT. In 1999 it sold 19 new ships totaling about 530
million DWT and worth $550 million. It employed 8,500 workers directly; with an annual payroll of about
$130 million, and kept many more employed indirectly through the inputs it purchased. For example, it
consumed 120-140,000 tons of steel produced elsewhere in Poland. The yard is a major operation,
assembling resources worth about $2 million per day. It is highly organized and automated, launching a new
ship on average every 3 weeks, taking only about 5 months to complete a large ship from the laying of the
keel to delivery. All these ships are for export. The buyers are worldwide. While the market for ships is



Annex 4
Page 5 of 13
notoriously boom-and-bust, the Shipyard aims to keep output stable by raising productivity while gradually
reducing its workforce. In late 1999 it completed a larger slipway that could accommodate ships of 50,000
DWT.
3.    Each new ship makes a sea-trials voyage into the Baltic, retuming to the shipyard for final fitting
before delivery. Thus each ship makes three trips through the seaway. Shipyard newbuilds thus average one
passage per week. Of the 39 ships on order in mid-1999 16 were of 35,000 DWT or larger; the largest was
45,000 DWT. These are all at the limit of what can safely pass through the canal. They require its full
10.5m depth. Although the canal is straight, the ship's length is also a constraint whenever there is a
crosswind, since it has to sail partly crabwise to offset the wind. For this reason the normal maximum length
allowed is 180m. Longer ships require a special operating regime, under which the canal is closed to traffic
in the opposite direction, while the ship passes: 2-3 hours in the canal and 6 hours in the seaway altogether.
They are allowed through the canal only in daylight. The largest ships built at the shipyard are 210-250m
long.
4.    Any deterioration of the canal's profile will inhibit passage of these ships. Initially it might restrict
them to movement during calm weather; beyond that the shipyard might simply have to withdraw from this
profitable market.
5.    The ships of 35,000 DWT and bigger accounted for about two-thirds of sales in 1999, i.e. about $360
million (each ship costs about $1 million per thousand DWT; an average ship of 30,000 DWT costs $30
million; the large container ships now being built cost $40 million each). Value added in the Shipyard is
about $160 million and of that; value added on the larger ships is about $110 million. This includes wages,
depreciation and profit. The market trend is toward larger ships, and since fewer shipyards can supply them,
they are more profitable than smaller vessels.
6.    We have no basis for judging how far the Shipyard could redeploy resources to smaller ships and
other business. The more it could do so, the less would be the cost to the Polish economy of deleting large
ships from its production. However, in late 1999 16-17% of the local workforce was unemployed. At the
same time, curtailing production of the large ships would have repercussions not only on the Shipyard but
also on its suppliers, most of whom are Polish. The aggregate effect on the economy might well be 2-3 times
the impact on the Shipyard alone.
7.    If we assume that the economic loss from production foregone would be 30% of the value added on
the larger ships within the Shipyard and 10% of the value added by its Polish suppliers, the cost of total
withdrawal from this market would be about $60 million per year ($35 million in the Shipyard + $25 million
among the suppliers). The degree to which the canal's profile would deteriorate without the proposed
investments is hard to predict, but as a conservative estimate, production of the largest ships might have to be
cut by 10-15%. On these assumptions, it would cost the economy $6-9 million per year.
Avoided Recurrent Maintenance of Canal
8.    If the breakwater is not built and the slope protection not renewed, the Maritime Office can expect to
have to spend $1-2 million every year on recurrent repairs: dumping rock on segments of the bank which
will have suffered localized collapse and dredging to restore the canal's profile. Expenditures of this
magnitude have been incurred each year since 1995, just to preserve the present operating speeds. The
proposed investments would largely eliminate the need for such repairs. Savings are thus estimated at about
$1.2 million per year.
Transport Cost Savings Through Ouicker Transit of Seaway
9.    The proposed investments will allow ships to save time in transit through the seaway, and allow the
safe passage of larger ships. Traffic will have to be stopped on fewer occasions for bad weather or to allow



Annex 4
Page 6 of 13
large ships to pass. Night-time use of the waterway can be extended. The present speed limit of 7 knots is
motivated in part by the need to protect the slopes from further erosion; faster speeds may be permissible
after the slopes are stabilized --up to 8.5 knots for loaded ships and 12 knots for ships in ballast. It is
estimated that the average ship -not counting the shipyard traffic already evaluated above-- will save about
15 minutes per passage. The resulting transport cost savings will correspond to about $0.4 million per year
(about 10,000 passages x 0.25 hours @ $150 per hour).
Reduced Risk Of Collisions And Groundings
10.   It is hard to estimate the expected economic cost of future collisions and groundings, if the Canal's
profile were left to deteriorate. Few such accidents have occurred in the past two decades, and none can be
blamed on the conditions in the southern end of the Piastowski Canal. However, the number of ships using
the Canal is growing; so is their size. Passenger ships, now few in number are expected to make greater use
of the seaway.
11.    The expected cost is the product of the probability of an accident and its cost in terms of damage to
the ship or ships involved, damage to the canal infrastructure, the cost to other traffic of the seaway's
temporary closure, damage to the environment from pollution -in an ecologically sensitive area-- and loss of
life. The scenarios with the gravest consequences are probably a ship carrying toxic chemicals being
breached in a collision, and the sinking of a passenger ship with loss of life. The probability of such
scenarios is negligible for small vessels, all the more so since the start-up in January 2000 of the radar-based
vessel tracking and management system financed from the Bank's loan for the Port Access and
Modernization Project. Marine insurance companies do not consider the seaway a special risk. But the
probability of an incident in severe weather involving the largest ships will begin to become significant as
their number grows.
12.    Against that background, the MOS's consultant used a computer-based simulator to assess the
probability of collisions and groundings of varying severity in the period 2005-2010. It concluded that, with
the project, the probability of a serious accident will be negligible; but without the project, about one serious
collision with the bank or grounding per year can be expected in the southern end of the Piastowski Canal
every three years. It would involve one of the largest ships using the canal; and it would have a cost of about
$1 million, in terms of (i) salvage operations, (ii) repair of the ship, (iii) lost revenue for the time the ship is
out of service, and (iv) cost to other traffic of the seaway being closed. Thus the annual saving would be $0.3
million.
Conclusions
13.   The total benefits will be more than $8 million per year in the period 2005-2010, broken down as
follows.
Benefit category                           $ million
Value added through Szczecin Shipyard           6.0+
Recurrent maintenance avoided                   1.2
Cargo transit cost savings                      0.4
Collisions and groundings avoided               0.3
Total                                           8.0+
Construction cost                              43.6
Economic return                                19%+
Sources:   Szczecin Shipyard -World Bank staff estimate, January 2000
Remainder -Szczecin Maritime Office, January 2000
Benefits are expected to start accruing at this full level as soon as the works are finished, that is, in 2003. If
traffic grows at an average rate of 3% per year - a median forecast - the internal rate of return on the



Annex 4
Page 7 of 13
investment ($44 million) will be about 19 percent. If traffic does not grow the ER will be 16%. A cost over-
run of 20%, other things being equal, would reduce the ER to 16%, while the minimum benefits needed to
yield a return of 12% are $5 million per year. A worst-case scenario of no traffic growth, a cost over-run of
20% and benefits 25% below forecast would yield a return of 9%. The risk of this scenario is small enough to
be acceptable.
Alternatives analyzed and rejected
14.    The breakwaters are a large investment, but it is not technically feasible to build them in phases.
They are needed to reduce cross-currents and turbulence which might drive ships off course as they enter the
canal from the sound. They also will serve to reduce scouring of the canal bed and hence will stabilize its
profile. Hence both walls (east and west) need to be built at once. Consideration has also been given to
delaying the works to reconstruct the slope protection (repairing the worst damage immediately, but
spreading work on less-damaged sections over a longer period).  However, it is concluded that
implementation as proposed will pay for itself in terms of avoided recurrent maintenance works and
dredging.
Table 1 presents the economic calculation of NPV and IRR for the seaway investments.
B. Katowice Peninsula and Grabowski Island
Traffic flows likely to use the new berths and storage areas are listed in the attached table. In most cases the
port is already handling these commodities over existing berths, but transferring them to the new facilities
will attract increased volumes of throughput. It is not feasible to determine what part of these will be
diverted traffic and what part generated traffic. For purposes of evaluating the benefits, we assume
conservatively that all additional traffic is generated and apply the "rule of half'.
The savings to the Polish economy will be shared among the Seaport Authority, the cargo handling
companies (referred to elsewhere as "investors" or "operators"), the transport companies (shipping lines, the
railway and trucking firms), and the cargo owners. The Seaport Authority has compiled information on the
cost of transporting the main commodities from origin to destination with and without the proposed new
facilities that is, by present routes and via Szczecin.
For this purpose SSSA supplied information on typical costs (price quotations from freight forwarders) for
four typical cargo flows from their origin to their destination. These are:
*  Paper in rolls to be exported from Finland to Berlin, passing through the port of Rostock and thence by
rail in the one case, and through Szczecin and thence by barge in the other.
* Steel scrap and plates carried from western Russia by rail to Antwerp and thence by ship to the USA in
the one case, and by ship from Szczecin in the other.
*  Grain in bulk exported from eastern Germany to the rest of the world, by rail to Germany's Baltic ports
in the one case and by barge to Szczecin in the other. (The new route will be attractive to grain silos
located on canals, of which there is a relatively dense network in the vicinity of Berlin.)
*  A typical movement of full containers of high-value general cargo being imported from the USA to
western Poland via Hamburg and thence by train in the one case and by feeder ship in the other.



Annex 4
Page 8 of 13
In each of the four examples the cost of transit through Szczecin port before and after the improvements is
estimated as follows.
Commodity         Origin-Destination    Transport cost   Competing route    Transport
via Szczecin      origin-dest'n                           cost
($ per ton)                       origin-dest'n
($ per ton)
Paper                Finland-Berlin             40.5      Via Rostock               50.5
(sea-barge)                         (sea-rail)
Steel scrap & plate    Russia-USA (sea)         55.0      Via Antwerp (rail)        70.0
Grain               E. Germany-Israel           25.0      Via Rostock               43.5
(barge-sea)                          (rail-sea)
Hi-value gen cargo    USA-Hamburg-W.            95.0      Hamburg (rail)           101.0
(in containers)     Poland (sea-rail)
(DEM 2 = USD 1)
It is further estimated, by reference to international experience, that the above savings are gross; adjustment
needs to be made to take into account other costs that will be incurred along the proposed transport chain
through Szczecin. We estimate these at an average of $5 per ton for bulk cargoes and $2 per ton for
containerized cargo.
Table 2 summarizes the main commodity flows.
Benefits to Port Authority
Incremental net revenue to the Seaport Authority is expected to be about $4 million per year, made up as
follows:
Katowice      Grabowski         Total
(US$ 000)    Peninsula        Island
Land leases: containers/gen cargo                       1,200
Land leases: bulks                        323
Wharfage                                  218             218
Ship (tonnage) dues                      1,333          1,056
Total                                    1,874          2,474           4,348
Construction cost               9,800          8,100          18,000
Economic return                   44%            22%            33%
Source: BIMOR Katowice Peninsula feasibility study, April 1997
Grabowski Island feasibility study, supplement January 2000 World Bank staff estimates
Costs are based on prices of the end of 1998.
Benefits accruing to other parties
The benefits associated with these new traffic flows will be shared among many stakeholders: the cargo
owners, transport companies (truckers, railways and barge operators), and port operating companies. Since
most of these are private companies it is not possible to obtain information on each party's share. For present
purposes we conjecture that half will accrue to Polish entities.
Altematives analyzed and rejected
On Grabowski Island only the first phase of development is foreseen in the Project. That is, a quay of 232m
will be constructed initially, long enough to accommodate one ship. It can be lengthened later to 442m (two
ships' length) when the build-up of traffic warrants it.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 13
The immediate construction of the longer quay, to accommodate two ships, was evaluated. It was concluded that
the gradual build-up of traffic did not warrant the construction of the second berth for several years.
Construction in two phases would not significantly increase the total cost; economies of scale would be only
minor. Taking into account the time-value of money, the phased approach will yield a higher return.
Risk and sensitivity analysis
The economic return is robust to reasonable levels of risk. In the event of a cost over-run of 20%, the ER on
Katowice Peninsula would still be about 37% and on Grabowski Island 19%. If benefits were 25% less than
the central forecast, the effect would be of similar magnitude. In the event of both these risks combined, the
ER will still be 21% over all and acceptable on both areas. Benefits would have to be two-thirds less than the
base forecast (other things being equal) for the overall return to fall below 12%.
Table 3 displays IRR and NPV calculations for Szczecin Port.
C. Summary of Benefits and Costs
Physical Modernization of Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway:
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 40 million; ERR= 19%:
Cost over-run of 20%:      ERR = 16%
Benefit short-fall of 3 5%:  ERR = 12%
Combination of 20% cost over-run, 25% benefit shortfall, no traffic growth:   ERR = 9%
Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie: Katowice Peninsula:
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 31 million (DR=8%); ERR= 44 %
Benefits:    Added Value generated by the companies developing commercial activities on the Katowice
Peninsula
Added value generated by other transport modes as a consequence of the development of the
Peninsula.
Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie: Grabowski Island
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 12 million (DR=8%); ERR= 22 %
Benefits:    Added Value generated by the companies developing commercial activities on the Grabowski
Island
Added value generated by other transport modes as a consequence of the development of the
island.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Assumptions made:
Investment cost over-run of 20 % for:
Katowice Peninsula - ERR = 37%
Grabowski Island - ERR = 19%
Benefit short-fall of 25% for:
Katowice Peninsula - ERR = 34%
Grabowski Island - ERR = 17%
Combination of 20 % cost over-run, 25% benefit shortfall for:
Katowice Peninsula - ERR = 28%
Grabowski Island - ERR = 14%
Switching value of benefits:   36% of best estimate (both port areas combined)



Table 1
Seaway IRR Calculation
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY              ____
Traffic growth    3%
rate:
j - 2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  219  2020  2021  2022
(million)  Year -   0      1     2      3      4     5      6      7     8      9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Benefits    __              8.0   8.2   8.5   8.7   9.0   9.3 9- 6   9.8  10.1  10.4    1.   11.1  11.4  11.7 _12.1  12.5  12.8  13.2  13.6  14.0
cost   43.6  26.2  17.4           __
Net            -26   -17      8      8      8      9     9.     9    10    10    10-  10    11    11    1.  112            12    12    13    13    14    14
IRR  - __ 19%________ __
NPV@ (_8%    $40
EFFECT OF TRAFFIC GROWTH                   - --   _
Traffic growth    0%
rate:                                      2        007200
2001  2002  2003  2Y004  2005  2006207 08  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  2021  2022
(million)  Year-   0                         4       5      6      7     8      9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Benefits8.                        8.     8.     8.    8.     8.    8.     8.     8.     8.    8.     8.    80  8.0   8.0   8.0  8.0   8.0  8.0   8.0
Cost   43.6  26.217.
Net   __       -26   -17      8      8      8     8      8      8      8     8 _8         8      8      8     8      8      8      8  _8        8      8      8
IRR           16% __
N PV ((@   8%    $25__
COST OVER-RUN OF 20%
Traffic growth    3%
rate:
2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007                                    200820Y0021    0220321I0521    07  2018  2019  2020  2021  2022
$million)   Year -   0     1     2      3      4     5      6      7     8      9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
Benefits                    8.0   8.2   8.5   8.7   9.0   9.3   9.6   9.8  10.1  10.4  10.8  I11L          1.   11.7  12.1  12.5  12.8  13.2  13.6  14.0
_Cost   52.3  31.4  20.9 __               _     ____    __            _   ____
-Net      ~~-31  -21 __ ~ 8                  8      9     9-   9    10    10. 0.    io    II            1     1      12   12       12    13    13 _14   14
NPV              $32D
_ _  _ _  - _ _ _   -   -    _ _          L . _    _    _ _   _ _           _ _           _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,  



BENEFITS REQUIRED FOR 12% RETURN                              __
Traffic growth   3%=/
rate:2202                                                                                   21620721 209 00
2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  2021  2022
($ million)  Year-   0     1     2     3      4     5     6      7     8      9     10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
_ ~~~~~I        _ =__ =__ _-__
Benefits                  5.0   5.2   5.3   5.5   5.6   5.8   6.0   6.1   6.3   6.5   6.7   6.9   7.1   7.3   7.6   7.8   8.0   8.3   8.5   8.8
Cost   43.6  26.2  17.4 ____
Net           -26   -17      5     5      5     5      6     6     6      6     6     7      7     7      7     7     8      8     8      8     9     9
RR   _       12%  __=_ _       __    __
NPV_  8%  $10                                                     -  ___                                                                      _
COMBINATION OF NO TRAFFIC GROWTH, COST OVER-RUN OF 20% & BENEFITS 25% BELOW FORECAST
Traffic growth   0%
rate:  |        _||__-
___    2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  2021  2022
($million)  Year-   0      1     2     3      4     5     6      7     8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
1         ______    ______  ____t ____- _1-__                                                                 |1                 
Benefits                  6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.01 60    .0   6.0   6.0   6.0                 6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Cost   523   31.4  20.9         __
Net   _       -31   -21      6      6     6     6      6     6     6      6    6      6      6 66             6 66           6     6      6     6      6
I               1                     _R__ _.
NPV @    8%    $1  __  ___                                                   ;     0      i2                 ;        
1 CD
w1



Table 2
Main Commodity Flows
POLAND: SZCZECIN PORT                                                               _
Katowice Peninsula
2 sea berths: 410m                  Throughput (000 T/yr)   Area  Turnover                         Share
2 barge berths                   "Old"       New berths    Leased  Period  iMport Origin-Destination  of '08          Phasing
berths
Ro-m ramp                         1999   in 2004  in 2008  (OOOm2) (months) eXport                           tonnage
paper                100      300      600      10    0.20 M->X    Sweden-SEU        24%
granular fertilizer  415      110      320       7    0.76 M->X   Germany->world    13%  (Phase 1) 110k, (2) 320k, (3) 540k,
(4) 600k
grains (wheat)       IE       300      300       7    0.28   X      Poland->world    12%
cement                IE      250      250     4.6    0.22 M & X  Germany/Poland    10%        Could expand to 500k T
grains               100      250      250      28    1.34 M->X   Germany->world    10%.6
bunkering            NA       250      500      30    1.44   M     world->Szc port    20%  (Phasel) 250k, (2) 500k, (3) 1m tons
sulfuric acid        NA       150      150      10    0.80   X       Szc->world       6%
limestone             IE      135      155      11    0.98   M    Sweden->Szc p.p.    6%         2nd phase: 155k T
________         (power plant)
Total                                       1,745    2,525     108    0.74                          100%
NA=not applicable IE=included       ratio      16                1
elsewhere
Grabowski Island                        .                                 _
1 sea berth: 232 m                 Throughput (000 T/yr)    Area  Turnover
Ro-ro ramp                       "Old"       New berths    Leased  Period  iMport/ Origin-Destination                 Phasing
berths
1999   in 2004  in 2008  (000m2) (months) eXport
containers           100      150      200     120    9.60   M     world/SPB->Pol  =24k     2004: 150k, '05: 175k, '06: 200k
steel scrap/plate    NA       500    1,000     400    9.60 M->X                                (Phase 1) 500k, (2) lmT
Total                                         650    1,200     520    9.60                          100Gb
ratio               1      .1
. _ _ = _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5b



Table 3
Szczecin Port IRR Calculation
POLAND: SZCZECIN PORT  Exchange rate                USD/    2               Benef 100%         Over-  0%
DEM                        its              run
coeffi
______    _______                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~cient
_____    2001  2002  2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
BASE CASE              Year -2   -1      0      1    2      3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20
KatowicePeninsula         (million)               4     4     5     S    5      5     5      5     5     5     5     5     5     5      5_   5      5     5      5     5
Invest 1 $9.8       0.1     3.4   3.2   3.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0 .1         0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
ment
____I_.cos_.
E t   Net cashJlow    0      -3   -3      1     4     5      5     5    5      5     5     5     5     5      5     5     5     5 5          5     5     5     5
V    cost per       $5                                                                                                                                 IRR         44%
ton
_                                                                                                                                         - l   l  |   _   _  _   __ .   _  _   __  NPV    8%   $31
Grabowski Island       _     miion)               1_    2 2         2  3        3     3      3     3     3     3     3     3     3      3     3     3     3      3     3
Invest 1 $8.        0.9     4.2   3.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       0.1 0.1         0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
ment
I   costi                                - -__I
Netcashflow        -1     -4   -3       1    2      2     2     3     3    3      3      3     3     3     3     3     3      3     3     3     3      3     3
Extra cost per      $2                                                                                                                                 IRR         22%
ton
-   -~~~~.      --        NPV ~~~~~~ 8%   $12
Total                  ___              6  6  7  7 88   8  8 88 8  8   81 8   8  8 8   8  81 8
lInvest   $17.9      1.0     7.6  6.2   3.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.21  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.27  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2
Imentj        I_   __  _  I_                                                   I_  __                                      __  __L                 I
Net cashflow    -1.0   -7.6   -6        2                                   8     8      8     8     8     8     8     8      8     8     8     8      8     8
|NPrV ( 8%( $42
_  I  I  I                                                                                        l      l     l     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



Annex 5
Page I of 11
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Financial Evaluation
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAPORT AUTHORITY (SSSA)
A. Institutional Set up and Corporate Structure
1.    Institutional Situation of SSSA.  The incorporation of the new Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport
Authority (SSSA) was completed in December 1999, fulfilling the requirements of the new Ports Law
(1997). The Ports Law approved by Parliament in December 1996 became effective on August 6, 1997. The
law's main objectives aimed (a) to transfer partly the ownership of the ports from the central government to the
municipalities and (b) to vest the managerial responsibility to new landlord port authorities. The new landlord
ports are, in turn, to divest over the next three years all their capital shares held in daughter port operating
companies by selling stocks to private investors and to sell the leased port superstructure equipment to ports
operators.
2.     Corporate Structure. The transfer of ownership of the State Treasury (from 100 to 51 % of the port
capital) started in June 1998 with the establishment of the new Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (SSSA).
The participation of each city in the capital of the new authority has been set at 24,5 % and consists essentially
of land contribution. The SSSA coexisted for a little more than a year with the forner Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Port Authority which attributions were gradually phased out, and ceased to exist on January 31, 2000.
3.     The SSSA is now the landlord port authority exercising all statutory and regulatory functions, as
required by the law, leaving all operating functions to separate port operating companies to be soon entirely
privatized. An agreement has been reached between SSSA and the Ministry of State Treasury, its main
shareholder, on completing full divestiture of SSSA's remaining shares in the port operating companies
(45%) by 2003.
4.     The re-capitalization process included the evaluation of ports assets by independent auditors which
assessed the market value of capital, on the basis of replacement cost to determine the value of shares and the
contribution made by the municipalities as new shareholders. For the superstructure assets to be sold by 2003 to
ports operators, value closer to the actual market value will be used. The revaluation of assets resulted in an
increase in capital equity value and a new share distribution. The recent evaluation of the capital base of the
new Seaport Authority is the basis on which the financial forecast for year 2000 were established, enabling the
port Supervisory Board to confirm the investment capacity to borrow from the World Bank to finance the
proposed project components.
5.     SSSA is now finalizing the process of fine-tuning its organizational structure (see chart) and of
consolidating its financial structure, which includes the preparation of a draft corporate business plan as well
as short and mid-term budgetary forecasts. The business plan being prepared, is specifying the port's strategy
and objectives, focusing on port perforrnance to be monitored closely and setting goals for improved quality of
services through more comprehensive lease agreements with existing and future port operators. In the next few
years, the capital base will be gradually adjusted according to actual value of port assets sold and to incorporate
the new port investments at Katowice Peninsula and Ostow Grabowski to be financed partly under the present
project. A new corporate structure with 6 directorates has been established, incorporating new functions and the
transfer of a few functions to be discontinued in the future, namely related to the maintenance of port assets to
be sold. The staffing plan and staff transfer is being completed to meet the new functions requirement. The port
administration has a labor force of about 300 staff, to which some 200 security and firemen are attached as
direct employees, in accordance to Polish law.



Annex 5
Pa2e 2 of 11
B. Past and Present Financial Performance
6.     Financial Situation. The audited financial accounts statements of the existing Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Port Authority were submitted for the years 1993 to 1998. For the transition year of 1999, audited financial
statements were submitted for both the Port Authority and the Seaport Authority (see attached the summary of
Income statements, Balance sheets, and Cash Flow statements). Key ratios have been calculated to perform the
financial analysis, which can be assessed as good. The data below highlights the ports financial situation:
KeyData          1995         1996         1997         1998         1999
Operating        52,897       56,995       61,604      82,204        90,720
Revenues
(000 Zloty)
Operating        43.9%        41.8%        46.3%       33.7%         31.3%
Margin
(NOVOR)
Return    on     7.3%         7.4%         8.5%        8.1%          8.3%
investment
(NOI/NCA)
Debt/Equity      0%           0%           0.7%         1.3%         1.5%
Traffic           15,569      16,265       15,546       15,153       16,017
(000, Tons)
NOI = net operating income         NCA  net current assets
7.     The financial situation is sound as the ports have practically no debt and have generated income
allowing substantial investments at a level of about $7 to 8 million per year in the last 5 years. However, the
situation has slightly deteriorated in recent years as the traffic level continued to decrease (from 16.2 millions
tons in 1996 to 15.1 million in 1998), but it recovered in 1999. While the operating revenues (mostly paid in
foreign exchange) have increased steadily over the 1995 to 1999 period by about 10% annually, the
expenditures have increased slightly faster, resulting in a reduction of the operating margin from a level of about
45% to 31% in 1999.
8.     The ports revenues consist in fees from leased port areas and equipment (35%), in ship dues for port
entrance and wharf use (30%), in fees for port infrastructure maintenance paid by ports operating companies
(15%) and other revenues for utilities and other services. The new port tariffs issued in 1999 are no longer
setting the charges paid by the cargo owners for stevedoring, mooring, tugs, pilotage and provided by the
daughter port operating companies since those tariffs are to be controlled by the private operating companies,
based on market forces. Income from investment of the ports in the daughter operating companies have been
very small, since their profitability was weak due to overstaffing, old equipment and low value cargo (mainly
bulk coal and iron ore, and steel products). The privatization will help those companies to modernize their
management, improve the quality and diversify their services, and generate more income; part of which will
accrue to the Port Authority through the leases agreement which will be renegotiated. The new lease tariffs for
operators on the Katowice Peninsula and the Grabowski Island will comprise fix and variable fees in relation to
turn over.
9.     The annual depreciation amounts are in the range of about 9 % of net fixed assets and have increased to
about 28 million Zloty in 1998. This allowed investments on the port own resources of 34 million Zloty (or
about $8 million) for that year, in spite of a slight reduction in net income. Net income represented about 3% of
operating revenues, leaving a return on net fixed assets of less of 1% compared to about 2 to 3% yearly over the
1995-97 period. The Port has only small cash reserves of about 5 million Zloty, but its financial management
appears sound, making it an acceptable risk for the proposed project loan, especially as the two port
infrastructure areas to be developed have been already reserved by private operators which will invest as well
substantially to generate traffic and income.



Annex 5
Pa2e 3 of 11
C. Financial Objectives, Strategy and Projections
10.    Financial Strategy: The SSSA management financial strategy will be to secure a sound financial
position with specific policies and measures including to (i) manage the borrowing costs for new investments
meeting market demand; (ii) enlarge the revenue base and cost recovery of services; (iii) manage operating costs
and tariffs effectively and competitively; (iv) upgrade the institutional capacity with strengthening of the finance
and administration units to improve planning, marketing and prepare corporate plans setting the objective and
strategy of the ports.
11.    SSSA will keep building upon its past strength in generating cash for self-investment, but will rely in
addition on the mobilization of external resources such as loans and capital sales, the sub-products of the port
law reform. Management will upgrade its investment policy, based so far on restrictive budgeting principles, to
meet new opportunities offered by market demand and its favorable port location, in order to capture more
valuable and revenue earning traffic flows. Such traffic diversification will materialize faster with the private
investors co-financing in the port investment at Katowice Peninsula and Grabowski Island, in addition to public
borrowing under the project. The ongoing marketing for these developments has been quite positive in securing
the direct commitment of several investors.
12.    Minimum port tariffs adjustments will be made by SSSA to recover the capital investment made while
maintaining the Szczecin port competitiveness based on upgraded service quality and operating costs reductions.
The tariffs to yield additional revenues from increasing new traffic comprise mainly ship dues (paid in US dollar
foreign exchange equivalent) and lease agreements revenues. Ship dues (for sea going and inland river vessels)
include a tonnage fee for vessels entering and leaving the port based on the ship's gross capacity in volume
(measured in m3) and a wharefage fee which will be based on ship quay length and time used. New tariffs will
be issued in year 2000 and regularly updated to incorporate several changes and be based closer to a cost base
strategy once the factor costs to be analyzed as part of analytical cost accounting exercise under the technical
assistance provided by the project will be completed.
13.    The area or terminal lease revenues will include a fixed rent as well as a variable charge based on the
annual throughput of products handled. The general conditions for Lease agreements have (i) very specific
terms regarding environmental protection and waste management, (ii) regular rent adjustment provision based
on a cost of goods and services index, and (iii) no fixed lease period. Performance monitoring and variable
charges on throughput earnings are to be negotiated with each operators and type of cargo handled. In
particular, for general cargo including containers, the lease should evolve into concessionaire contract with
performance targets, the terms of which will be defined through the technical assistance provided under the
project. Existing lease agreements with the former daughter operating companies will be renegotiated with the
new owners once privatized. The areas lessees will either have the cargo or goods handled by a port stevedoring
company which will have no exclusivity or organize the service by its own means.
14.   In addition, ship tonnage dues will be collected on all vessels using private port facilities entering the
port boundary and not only on vessels docking at the former port daughter operating companies, as it was done
up to now. This will yield about 3.5 million tons in additional revenues worth about $1.5 million US dollar,
which will cover part of the cost of inner port dredging done by the port Authority but which were not recovered
up to now. The other ship charges such as pilotage, tugging, mooring are collected by private operating
companies, as well as cargo handling and storage are paid to the stevedoring companies.
15.    The sale of port supra-structure (boilers, power plants, machines, cranes and moving equipment) used
by the daughter operating companies by the SSSA will bring additional revenues. The net potential income of
the sales is yet to be determined based on what the market can bear. An evaluation of ports assets was carried
out by independent auditors who assessed the market value of capital, on the basis of replacement cost, at 325
million Zloty, compared to a book value of 88.6 million. The sales of those supra-structure assets has been
estimated to yield about 119 million Zloty (or about 28 million US$) in SSSA forecast up to year 2003. The
equipment is generally old and rundown, but fairly well maintained. Part of the maintenance cost charged by



Annex 5
Page 4 of 11
SSSA to the daughters companies will no longer apply when the sales of the supra-structure assets will be
completed. This will also result in a reduction in maintenance operating cost for SSSA. The remaining stocks
owned in the daughter companies by the SSSA (45%) under the joint-stock companies, will be sold by 2003.
The actual market value of the capital will be determined based on the market and interest for these activities.
The book value of the equity capital owned by SSSA in those companies is only about 1.8 million Zloty (see
attachment). The sale of the shares will not bring a significant return to the Port Authority, but will allow the
daughter companies to operate in a more competitive environment.
16.    Financial Projections: The financial forecast for 2000-2003 have been prepared by the new Seaport
Authority and are setting the financial objectives of the port (mainly expected income, expenditures, net return
on fixed assets and debt/equity ratio limits). The last two key financial objectives have been established
together with World Bank and have been selected to be included in the loan financial covenants to be agreed
upon during negotiations. The year 2000 is a major transition as it is the first year of operation of the new
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority. The corporate objectives and strategy are stated in draft Corporate
Plan covering the next three years (2000-2002). A new capital structure has been set reflecting the new
ownership and the assets revaluation. The equity capital has been increased from 10 million Zloty to 15.5
million, with both cities owning 24.5 % of the shares each. Long term financial projections for the 2000-2010
period, have also been prepared incorporating traffic forecast figures based on the project feasibility study, the
proposed loan amount distributed over the 2001-2004 period, and the related increases in port revenues and
possible expenditures reduction. The projections include the tariffs adjustments required to generate sufficient
returns to ensure interest and debt servicing once the 5 year loan grace period is over (see attached the summary
of Income statement, Balance sheets, and Cash Flow statements).
17.    Assumptions used for financial projections are as follows:
(i) Basic documents
* Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port and Seaport Authorities Financial Statements (1992-1999)
*  Bimor Consultants Feasibility study for Katowice Peninsula and Grabowski Island 1997 and revised
version 2000
* Maritime and Port Statistics of MTME
* Draft of Corporate Plan and financial projections by SSSA for 2000-2003
(ii) Data and assumptions used in financial statements forecast
*  The forecast for the first four years (2000-2003) is based on the transition whereby the port will sell
its supra-structure assets to the daughter companies and other operators.
*  Revenues are projected to decrease somewhat during this first period because the leased assets will
loose part of their value, and the new facilities to be constructed under the project will not yet bring
income. Revenues are planned to increase in real term by 3.5% annually after 2003 with the volume
of traffic and leased areas. In addition, harbor dues will be applied to the vessels entering the port
with an annual tonnage estimated at 3.5 million tons and which are using private piers. Port tariffs
will have to be raised slightly by about 2% per year in real term, given the slow growth of the overall
traffic.
*  Operating expenditures are assumed to increase in real term by 2% annually after 2003, but will first
decrease given the reduction of the Port Authority in the supply of services and utilities to the port
operating companies.
*  Traffic is assumed to increase in average by 1% from 2000 to 2003 and 1.8% thereafter, given the
combination of factors pushing in opposite directions, namely the gross national product forecast
expected to continue to grow at 5 to 6% and the reduction by half in coal traffic over 10 years;
container traffic is projected to increase by 8% annually until 2003 and by 20% per year thereafter
when new facilities will be operational
*  Depreciation is on the basis of a composite useful life of 40 years for keys and terminals, and 20
years other service equipment (e.g. utilities distribution and fire protection)



Annex 5
Page 5 of 11
*  Interest charges and capital repayment are computed on the basis of loans terms
*  Cash available is invested in market security instruments at current market yield
*  Inflation is assumed at 4.5% throughout the period; but forecast are in constant term
*  Specific provision was made for limited foreign exchange gain as the SSSA earns its revenues in
foreign exchange, matching assets and liabilities
*  Foreign exchange is assumed to be Zloty 4.25=US$ I
18.   Financial Covenants. The financial forecast indicate that provided the above components of the
strategic plan are properly implemented, SSSA can expect that the cash generation would be sufficient to
service its debt and leave a surplus to meet its own financial contribution for the investment projected for the
Katowice and Grabowski berths development. The annual depreciation level will remain substantial and will
allow other modernization investment on a self-financing basis. The return on net fixed assets would be
within the range of 5% annually after 2006 and the debt/equity ratio would not get close to the 50/50 set
limit. Finally, the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on
all debt of the Borrower including the debt to be incurred. The loan financial covenants are limited to these
three ratios which are quite sustainable in the medium and long term.
19.   Project components for Katowice and Grabowski berths and terminal development. A financial
calculation was performed to ascertain the financial viability of the two investments from the port as investor,
based on a comparison of the costs of construction and earning potential. The data are extracted of the Bimor
Feasibility Studies for each investment and adjusted to present value. The total investment costs including
the VAT, but excluding contingencies are Zloty 93.5 million (US$ 22 million) and respectively Zloty 51.4
million (US$ 12.1 million) and Zloty 42.1 million (US$ 9.9 million).
20.    The areas to be developed include for Katowice 490 m of berths for two seagoing vessels and barges
and 160,000 m2 of land area and for Grabowski 232m of berths and 520,000 m2 of land area. The cargo
handling capacity will be about 3.2 million tons at Katowice which could handle yearly about 700 vessels
with an average of 4500 DWT, while the handling capacity at Grabowski will be about 2.1 million tons with
about 300 vessels with an average of 7000 DWT. These figures are estimates when both areas will be fully
utilized, but it will be reasonable to expect in the early year's volumes of paying traffic of about half. On
Grabowski island, in addition containers handling is expected to reach about 20,000 TEU by 2004, with a
tonnage of about 200,000 tons and to almost triple by 2010.
21.   The ship dues are about $0.44 per DWT and the lease rate based on area occupied is expected to be
about US$ 3.00 per m2 per year. An annual wharf fee of 3.5% of the value of the quay investment and
related works could be charged as well.
22.   Financial returns for the Port. For Katowice Peninsula, the financial returns estimated would reach
about US$ 1.4 million for ship dues based on 700 calls per year when 100% of the capacity would be
operational, the first year being half of this amount going up gradually to 70% on year 2, to 80% on year 3
and 90% on year 4. The wharf fee could yield about US$ 300,000 per year. The lease could yield for all
areas about US$ 480,000. Total income could be close to $2.2 million when the areas are fully operational.
The Net present Value (NPV) would be about LJS$ 4.7 million assuming a discount rate of 8%. The
minimum financial rate of return would be about 13.1 %.
23.    Grabowski Island, the financial returns estimated would reach about US$ 920,000 for ship dues
based on 300 calls a year on year 5 when 100 % of the return would be expected, the first year being half of
this amount going up gradually to 70% on year 2, to 80% on year 3 and 90% on year 4. The wharf fee could
yield about US$ 190,000 per year. The lease could yield for all areas about US$ 1,200,000. Total income
could be close to 2.3 million $ when the area is fully operational. The Net present Value (NPV) would be
about US$5.8 million assuming a discount rate of 8%. The minimum financial rate of return would be about



Annex 5
Page 6 of 11
14%. The most likely return would about twice if the traffic materialize as originally expected of more than
2 million tons/year.
24.   It is worth noting that the increase in net operating income expected in the global financial
projections is about US$4 million dollar per year from 2004 and reaches close to 8 million in 2010. The pay
back period for the project cost would be thus less than 5 years.



Organization Tree of The Szczecin Swinoujscie S.A. Seaport Authority
Ce AManagement Board  
OfcTem                           Function DFuncnDiisonDiiso
Secretaiat    Ofice   _      egal Consel   _Seaportl Drescu    r   Recruitment           Por Charges           __________|
tFinancial DirSetor        ADirector orM et         Investment Director     &Persoel and                                  Asset Supervision 
(Board Member)  }               Band Deelombe)|L     Mermber)            A dministration Director    Comrca Diretor           Director 
Chief ccountnt |  X Controlling         Marketing   |         Investment  |        Personinel   |    P Cortdiunatover         Technical|
Function            Division             Division            Division              Division                Division
-  Accounting  |         AFinalysisalnd      Development |  0   IT Division  |  0       Padnroll            TariWOC Office          Saet a Woer
Managcment
Fixed Assets           Diiin|Hire and Purchase
Accounts and                                           lPSeaport Rescue            Recruitment                                Daag LidSection
-  Settlement        |  Stocktaking    | _  Assets Section                             & _  Division  _    &Training  _ PSection Cha
Section             Division                        IDivision|Eniomta                                                                         |
|Financial  |                                                                      diitaie{         ll                       |Protection and |
Account  |                                              X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Division    l    aif  em i X   Division 
|Insurance and |7
Control   |                                                                       Port Securit|                               Damage Liquidation |v
Functio                                                                  Ser vice                                      Function                 _  X



Annex 5
Page 8 of 11
SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE FOR SSA AND SSSA IN THE DA UGHTER COMPANIES AS OF
31.12.1999
Description                   Value of the shares % of shares in
in PLN         the base
capital
A. Share of the SSA in the base capital:
1. "Drobnica - Port Szczecin" Sp. z o.o.                 158,350          45,0
2. PUP" Elewator Ewa" Sp. z o.o.                         35,700           40,0
3. "Bulk Cargo - Port Szczecin" Sp. z o.o.               173,650          45,0
4. "Port Handlowy Swinoujscie "Sp. z o.o.                293,000          45,0
5. Zaksad UsSug Seglugowych Sp. z o.o.                   49.500           45,0
6. "PZR - Port Crane Service" Sp. z o.o.                 29.700           45,0
7. "Infra - Port" Sp. z o.o.                             52,400           45,0
8. PCWMSp.zo.o.                                          38,500           45,0
9. Doker - Port Sp. z o.o.                               20,000           25,0
I  Total shares in the port companies (Ito 9)           850,800
10. Euroafrica Sp. z o.o.                                 35,000          0,71
11. Baltona SA Gdynia                                      2,100          0,08
12. Fast Terminals Ltd.                                  612,100           50,0
13. Bank Morski SA (w PBK SA)                              3,320          0,92
14. SpedycjaPolska "Polkombi" SA Spedpol - Warszawa        3,800          0,17
15. "BALT SPED" Spol. s.r.o. Ostrava (Sp.z o.o.)           2,920.39        36,0
16. Dom Poiski SA Ostrava                                27,819.45         0,5
17. Sudecko-Pomorskie Towarzystwo Drogowe SA (w           10,000           1,64
likwidacji)
18. Kombi Terminal - Poznani "KTP" SA (w likwidacji)     300,000          1,73
19. "Huta Szczecin" SA                                       510          0,01
II. Total other companies (10 to 19)                   1,007,569,.84
III. TOTAL (1+11)                                      1,848,369.84
B. Share of the SSSA in the base capital:
_. World Trade Center Szczecin Sp. z o.o.               4.500,00          100,0
C. TOTAL (A+B)                                         1.852.869,84



. .ZEIN-SWINOUJSCIE PORT AUTHORITY until 1998 and SEAPORT AUTHORITY from 2000
As of December 3 1, in Billion old Zloty until 1994 and thousansd new Zloty thseseafter, and based on sale of suprastrocture onsets from 2000
Fees from leased assets                        234       292      25,684   26,100  26,152 _34,063 3,26           10       336                                                24,565 2,4    26,314   27,235    28,189    29,175    30,196
Traffic tonnage dues (ship & rnhorfage do-s)(2)  103     133      14,184    17,277  20,225  21,647    5,982  2i,955      279727,661   28,630    29,632   30,669    31,742    32,853    34,003
Fees onport infrantruct.resmaintenance         155       148       9,157    9,951   12,015   10850   12,200        0      122011,006   11,391    11,790    12,203    12,630    13,072    13,529
O6therr~evenues                                 24       90        3,872    3,667   3.212   15,644   16,869      378      17,247                                              31,384   32,483    33,620   34.796    36,014    37,275    38,579
Ojsep ra..ag Res.ease (OR)                    516       653      52,897.  56,9958  61,604  82,204   68,257  22,463       907094,6171  97,928   108,56  104,903   108,575   112,375   116,308
Salaries, Wages, SiaScrty7                               92       9,325    11,127   13,088   15,131   12,480   491         7,92356                                                      408      2,29       501      2,520    26,030   2,5
Materials                                            5   5           92       884    1,004    1,068      307     41          38,09                                                      1,060      1,102     1,124     1,146     1,169     1,2
Energy                                          6         8        1,460     1,867    1,897    7.960    8.469     77       8,546                                              11,563    11,794    12.030    12.270    12,516    12,766    13,022
Repairs sod maintenance                         27       50        5,137    4,932    6,225    5,749    2,679   2,088       4.767                                              3,264    3,329      3,396     3.464      3,533     3,604     3,676
Dredging anod other services        -           13       15        1,534      913    1,235    2,040      299   3.776      4,075                                               3,988    4,068      4,149    4,232       4,3 17    4,403     4,491
Taxes on buildings and land                     22       29        302       389     483      573      606         0       ,06,13                                                        ,93      4,175     4258       4,343     4,430     4,519
Other expenditures                              55       80        8,278    9,557   4,793   16,850   10,879   9,130      20,009                                              26,205   26,729  27,263    27,0          835       2,932    29,511
Operating Esprni rs(OE)                       284      279       29,698   33,159  33,865  84,531. 41,919  20,413        62,332                                              73,667   75,141    76,644   78.1761  79.740    81,335   82,962
NtOeaigIncome (NOt)                     32       374    _23,199   23,836  28,539  27,673   26,338   200            28,388                                              2099     22,7871   24,712 2677           8,3      3,00       334
Depreciation                                   134       220      20,1t50   21,128   21.496  2,8,23   28,172     161    283317,283    17,888    18.514    1912                                                        19,833    20,527    21,245
Interest expenses (10)                                                                                                                                                        293       293       781       759        726       693       664
Loss (gain) on exchongen                                                                                     
RewtaI from Operations                       178       154       3,049,   2,708,  7,043  (1,150)  (1,834)   1,889          55734                                                       1,967   (1,614)~    45        1,776     3,581     5,462
income from investments & other               -62        65        3,501     3349   4,350    3,683    1,865       49      3,828                                               2,00    2,070       2,4        ,1        ,9        2,7        ,5
Profit tax, wages (POPIWEK), eqiytx            lt       85         1,838    1,90     4799 __23t4          2        0          4                                                                                             
Net Incaome (NI)                             139       134       4,802    4,148    6,594    2,2991      291  1,938       1,967                                              2,74    4,037         87,8    2,2631   4,871       9,9561   7,920
KCen Rationg on Operating Reeenacs
Operatingma-gin(N4OUOR,)                       605%      57 3%    43.9%/   41.8%    46 3%    3 375/   38.6%    9.1%       313%       310!       26        21        1%        22.1%    23.3%     24 4%     23.5%      26.6%     27.61%    28.7%
Operating Ratio (0F/OR)                        35!, 47%            6.        82%     337%/   66.3%    61.4%   909         687        68%       77%                 77.99'  97,  79'    76.77,    75 6%      74 5 /    73.4%     72.4%     71.3%
Interest espenses (10/OR)                       00        0.%      00         .%      0%      00        .7,00%             0.0%       6.2%      8.4%      5.2%      2.6%       3.1%     30'       7.7%      7.2%       67/        .%       57
Net income (NJJOR)                             26 9'!/   2.5       9.1%      7.3%/    077',   2.8%     0.0%    8.6%        2.2%      11.0%/    7.9%!      5.4%      2.1%       2.9%     4.1%      -0 5%     2 2%       3.7%      5.3%      6.8%
Variation ia part operating revenues                    2.%        6.8%     7.%      81%   33%             .       -    10,4%        7.%       29         3,%        ,%       3,5%;     3.5%I/    35 %      3%        3%         35%       3%
Variatian ia port aperati.sg expenses                   36./s      1.1%    11.7%    -0.3%   64.9%          -       -      14,3%      -7.3%    16.2%       3.8%      3.6%      2,8%      2.0%      2.0%      2.0%      2,8%       2.0%I/    2.0%j
Traffic)( in thonsand Tans)                   21,730   15,667   15,569   16,265   15,546   15,153          .       -     16,017      18,5335   18,674    18,814    18,955    19,296    19,644    10,296    19,644    19,997    2037       20,7241
V,iatia.iofototal-traffse                              -2'79.9%   -0.6%      4.5%1   -4.4% I  25%                          5.7%      15,7%     O.S%       0.%       0.7%       1.8%     I  I.8%   1          I .8%     1.8%      1.8%      1.0%
Total employeeson&ar atsrty               708       649      538       524      521      525     346      140       486        40         80        80         80        80        80        80       480       480        48        40
Assmed reveues increase from 2004:            3.5%
Assu,ned expenditues increase from 2004:    215!
Assuaned traffic, increase from 2000        06           n   rm20:    .%---.-.
(1) For year 1999 accounts ore given for both the Scci-nioscePort Authority (SSPA) & Szczecin-Swinoajncie Seaport Authority (SSSA) which co eitdta  er                                                                                                               P
(2) Stevrdoring charges paid by cargo owners are collected hby port operators___________jj                                                                                                                                 J
-T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
CD f
- ./s



Correolrotio(CAICL)         16~~l"  1.94    335       296       l7         M           9     1"9 2002230  .  220.0093.                          .         2004       20.5        20          207008 0.27007                      20.7
DebllEquily(D/E)  0%  0%    0~/,      0%       0.70/.    13%       1.5      O.0~/,   15%      5.8%      3.8%       .09'.     9.2%316.2%9220%0391 12.7%2203%                                         87%              433
Less cumati,e depr1eciatios         9.3%8  2300      3867 6   54686    56.08/4   5863%7    6.06%0             8.95' 66129.2       .%       5%           41                    513%4        715.6%    7504%        77.%5       791%8       81.37%
RjeturFionAsertixds  els(NA /FA       440  183%    .T,46%       4         2         7/        0      574%    06%53.91. 26%                  3.3%3037%209                       35993       364,0/7    2232%                    .136
OEquityi- esturents  nvn           201    21%       7.%        7495%85%                     7 16.%983%82.%    1.3%                         23.0/      30.2%        5     3   62%5         66%5        71%5       17.53           1953      18.4%
S.pastctA ea
Net capital assets (NCA)  1,554   1,776  318,864  320,626  335,180  340,320   335,7071 4,414  340,121  ..... . ....  382,541    387,257    391,967    396,6661   401,352    406,02
Cash, deposits & short tem  182  94  5,277  9,340  2,794  5,053  3,539    876  4                                6,568       6,765      6,968       7,177       7,392       7,614~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
invssmeptos fr   Blo  fSI   ilo   roor4   ilo   l
19,658                                     jei~20      26 98       27 497      28 037      2,597      29,169      29o73
Debtors, accmed intem  --f73  247   20,891    16,385  3,521  933~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



F                                                                                                                              ____0 __._1 t=1  =L   I =[   t    {    t            < EPOT 
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE PORT AUTHORITY until 1998 and SEAPORT AUTHORITY from 2000
As of Decenmber 31, in Billion old Zloty until 1994 and tho.satnd new Zloty thereafter, and based on sale of superstructure assets from 2000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r 1T   1-mrT - F-1                                                                                        -  7f -- 
0~~~~~~~~~1993   1994                     s      1996   1996          199       1999     1999       199          22002-  2003                             2004      2005       2006      2007       200S       2009    2010
Sources of funds:
Nlet ocote              _1= i39    134i                 0 4,802   4,t41i  6,594       2,249        2S    1,938    t     ,961  . 9  299  2 ,7                                                  34 4,037 528  2,263    4,071      0,906      7,920
Depreciation                            134    220    20,150    21,128    21,496    28,823    28,172       161       28,333                                               17,253    17,888    18,514    19, i62      t9,833    20,527    2 1,245
Profit loss on sales ofassets              -                             -                 -          -
Gainort (loss)onexschango         _               -         .         -    2,437       3t159     2,188        -        2,188                                               1it,245 1,288        1,333     1      ,380 1,428      1,478      1,530
Total internal fuds                  273    354    24,952    25,276    30,527    34,281    30,389    2,099         32,488                                              21,261    23,213    20,375    22,805       25,332     27,961    30,696
Increase in eqoity/other source           7       -         -               3,742     6,805 =            2,242        2,242
Increase in current liabilities           8       3         -       200       150          I        I I                   I I
Total funds                           288    357    24,982    29,264    34,419    41,087    30,400    4,348        34,741                                              37,411    23,213    20,375    22,805       25,332     27,961    30,696
Applicttion of funds:
Capital OlpendiItre.                       - I                                          463      1,572                    72
Investments                             238    330    24,548    22,890    36,050    33,965    24,987    3,158        28,145                                               20,150    20,755    21,377    22,08       22,679     23,359  24,060
Parttfprofiotpaiutotorkets                7       9     1,130       776       919      1,326      529                    2
Loottepsytoent & lehIsetste      r       27     06        565         .    3,956      3,162      3,619     539        4,158                                                                     5,100     5,tOO|    5,00        5,100      5,100
l3tc,oose in current liabilities  .  19   1,412       248          .07~
Gap; in 2000 loans to PZM &PZB            2       I     1,075    1     7        0 :t                <1 2  656
Total noes                            274    4451  29,033    25,201   40,9651  38,928    31,6S2    3,697           35,379                                              36,300    20,755    26,477    27,118       27,779     28,459    29,160
hC supls or) de-i_t)                     14   (88)   (4,)         4,863   (61                  (112        644         (638)                                               1._   _2,459   (6,102)   (4,314)    (2,447)           (498)     1,535
Cashat beinning of year             |16          82       35      5,277     9,340.   2,894       4,821     232         5,053                                               7,188     8,300    10,758      4,656        343    (2,104)   (2,602)
Cash at end of the year                 182     94      5,277     9,340     2,794      5,053     3,539     876        4,415                                                8,300    10,758     4,606        343    (2,104)    (2,602)    (1.067)
Assumption for a WB loan of S 11 million or about 47 million Zloty                                                                                                                _         _         _____
fit
ftx
-1-f



Annex 6
Page I of 10
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Financial Management Arrangements
1. Summary of the financial management assessment:
The assessment was performed at the Financial Management Appraisal mission in June 2000. MOS and SSSA have
in place minimum required internal control and information system. However, MOS and SSSA agreed to take steps
to strengthen their financial management systems as listed in the plan below.
Action Plan for Maritime Office regarding financial management system:
Action                          Responsibility       Deadline
I     Preparation of accounting financial procedures manual showing  MOS      July 15, 2000
the tasks and responsibilities for Project team members with
regard to e.g. accounting and control procedures, preparation of
reports, withdrawal application, audit, cooperation with
relevant ministries.
2     The chart of accounts has been updated with new sub-accounts  MOS       July 15, 2000
for the project transactions.
3     Preparation of PMR formats according to the Project          MOS        July 15, 2000
specifications.
4     Selection of auditor for the audit Project Financial Statement  MTME    Before Board
acceptable to the Bank.                                                 Presentation in
December 2000
5     Preparation of full Project Management Reports (PMR)         MOS        December 31, 2001
including Project Cash Withdrawals and Project Cash Forecast
reports.
Action Plan for Szczecin §winouj§cie Seaport Authority regarding financial management system:
Action                         Responsibility       Deadline
I   Providing the Bank with Management Letters issued by auditors  SSSA       June 30, 2000
in conjunction with audit 1999
2   Selection of auditor for the audit of SSSA and Project Financial  SSSA    Before Board
Statement acceptable to the Bank.                                        Presentation in
December 2000
3   Training of accounting staff in International Accounting       SSSA       As soon as possible
Standards                                                                - before year end
4   Preparation of full Project Management Reports (PMR)           SSSA       December 31, 2001
including Project Cash Withdrawals and Project Cash Forecast
reports.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 10
Review of Financial Management System
1.    Understanding the Project
1.1.   The objective is to contribute to the development of an efficient administrative/managerial structure
and improvement of physical facilities in the Szczecin Swinoujgcie Port, so that they will provide efficient
services in competition with other ports and facilitate private sector involvement in commercial operations.
1.2.   The project will be made of two loans:
(a)    a loan to MTME, to be implemented by MOS, to improve navigational conditions within the
Szczecin-Swinoujscie fairway: rehabilitation of breakwater and slope protection in Piastowski Channel.
(b)    a loan to SSSA with the guarantee by Polish Government, to help finance the establishment of two
new port operational areas: Katowice Peninsula and Grabowski Island;
1.3.   The flow of funds will be set separately for MOS and SSSA.
(a)    MOS - The funds from the Bank will be disbursed through a Special Account established in the
National Bank of Poland and Statements of Expenditures.
(b)    SSSA - The funds from the Bank will be disbursed by direct payments to the Contractors.
1.4.   The project might be affected by the Seaport law, Law on Accounting and Auditing, Government
Subsidies, Public Finance law.
2.    Information Required
2.1.   Information will be provided quarterly in form of PMR. However additional information may be
requested ad hoc by Task Team Leader, Financial Management Specialist or during supervision missions.
2.2.   Physical information will be presented in percentages of completed works or in cubic meters.
3.    Internal Controls
3.1.   Country risks - The overall risk is assessed as medium. Polish accounting principles are on the way
of harrnonization with European Union Directives but are not fully compatible to IAS. The
accounting/auditing profession has a tradition in Poland and National Chamber of Chartered Auditors is
scheduled to become a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The big 5 audit firms
are operating in Poland, which also has a positive impact on the quality of local audit companies. The
prepared new law on accounting will introduce the international accounting standards.
3.2.   Organizational risks. The overall risk is assessed as medium.
MOS
3.2.1   General information. The Maritime Office in Szczecin (MOS) is a budgetary unit supervised by
MTME. As such MOS is not a revenue earning entity. It receives funds from the state budget to cover its
statutory tasks and any revenues resulting from e.g. fines or fees are treated as budgetary income. MOS has
an organizational regulation (dated March 11, 1999) describing the responsibilities of each department, job
description and flow of documentation instructions. MOS is audited by government auditors - Regional



Annex 6
Page 3 of 10
Clearing Chambers (Regionalna Izba Rozrachunkowa). All transactions related to the project will be
recorded in MOS and its Annual Project Financial Statements will be verified by an independent auditor.
SSSA has in place a financial system adequate for its size and complexity.
3.2.2. General information. In 1999 Zarzqd Portu Szczecin Swinoujscie S.A. (ZPSS- old SSSA) carried
out activities in parallel to Zarz4d Morskiego Portu Szczecin Swinoujscie (ZMPSS) which was established in
September 1998 on the basis of the Port Law. Old SSSA was the owner of the assets, which were leased to
associated companies. SSSA has 45% of the shares in the majority of these companies, which are rendering
port services. The organization of SSSA was focused on: administration and management over the land and
leased assets, technical supervision of leased assets, maintenance and development of infrastructure,
marketing and tariff policy, management services for associated companies e.g. accounting and financial,
investment, IT, legal and security support. As a result of the incorporation of the new company Zarz4d
Morskiego Portu Szczecin Swinouj§cie in 1998, SSSA departments were rendering services to ZMPSS to
allow it to fulfill its legal statutory obligations. Those services were provided based on a mutual cooperation
agreement. As at January 31, 2000 ZMPSS acquired ZPSS. The closing balance for the two companies was
prepared and consolidated to form the new opening balance for ZMPSS (SSSA).
3.2.3. Audit of SSSA. The two Port companies were audited in 1999 by "Finansista Sp. z o.o." and by
"W. Fra,ckowiak i Partnerzv Wielkopolska Grupa Auditingowa Sp. z o.o.". The opinions of auditors were
clean. The management letters were provided to the Bank by June 30, 2000.
3.2.4. Organizational structure. Following the merger the new organizational structure were prepared
and implemented in accordance with SSSA management resolution dated June 1, 2000. Its organizational
regulation includes the hierarchy of departments and sections, segregation of authority on management level,
rights and obligations of management, list of internal procedures applied in SSSA, and a description of tasks
for all departments. SSSA has an adequate accounting financial system including written procedures and
instructions: internal control, flow of documentation, cash management, stock take, and payroll policy.
4.    Project Accounting
MOS
4.1    The Chart of Accounts will be updated in order to allow project transactions to be separately
identified. This can be done by adding new sub-accounts allowing for gathering information in a breakdown
by category and components.
4.2    Accounting software. The Maritime Office in Szczecin uses the Unisoft v.3 accounting system,
which is adequate for the needs of MOS and the Project.
SSSA
4.3    The Chart of Accounts will be updated to allow project transactions to be separately identified. This
can be done by adding new sub-accounts allowing for gathering information in a breakdown by category and
components. The project sub-accounts are presented in Annex 11.
4.4    Accounting software. SSSA uses accounting computer system SKIBILANS created by Merinsoft.
However, this will be replaced by a new system TETA delivered by Elwro, which will be implemented in
phases. A personnel module has been implemented first and the full implementation of the fully integrated
system is planned for 2002. The new system would address the more sophisticated information requirement
for both accounting and management purposes. The new system will include the 4 integrated main modules:



Annex 6
Page 4 of 10
*     Finance
*     Logistics
*     Personnel
*     Production
The existing accounting system Skibilans is providing sufficient accounting information. However, some
modules were not integrated (e.g. fixed assets) and the development of SSSA requires more management
information available from the system. Therefore the management decided to implement the new system.
Internal control. SSSA has in place written internal control procedures:
*     Internal audit regulations
*     Flow of documents instructions
*     Cash management instructions
*     Stock taking instructions
*     Payroll policy.
The above procedures are applied by SSSA and provide sufficient assurance that the assets and
documentation are safeguarded. Moreover the SSSA has an internal audit department and control section in
its finance department. All project transactions will go through the regular flow of authorization in separate
departments and additionally they will be subject to special scrutiny and verification by the project team
manager.
5.    Staffing
MOS
5.1    The Finance department employs 19 persons. The chief accountant of the finance department is
also responsible for the financial management of the project. The finance department includes:
*     Chief accountant
*     Finance section
*     Accounting section
*     Stock taking section
The experience of financial staff is sufficient for the project requirements.
SSSA
5.2    The Finance Department of SSSA consisting of 35 persons is headed by the Chief Accountant who
is qualified as an auditor. Mrs. Stefania Bojakowska and Mrs. Malgorzata Machera have been designated to
be responsible for financial management and accounting/reporting issues. The Finance Department consists
of:
*     Accounting department
*     Assets evidencing section
*     Financial transactions section
*     Control section
*     Analysis and financial management department
*     Stock taking department



Annex 6
Page 5 of 10
Each department/section has a defined scope of responsibilities included in the organizational regulations and
each person has a job description. The staff working in SSSA has adequate experience in both
accounting/financial and port activities issues. There was a strong recommendation for providing the SSSA
accounting staff with training in International Accounting Standards, which was completed by November
2000.
6.    Project Management Indicators
6.1    The PMRs prepared by MOS and SSSA will show apart from financial information on expenditures
made and variances compared to the plan based on the PIP and the payment schedules included in contracts.
The physical output information will include e.g. work completed in cubic meter and percentage terms.
7.    Reporting Arrangements
7.1    MOS and SSSA will prepare Quarterly Project Management Reports, Annual Project Financial
Statements and additionally SSSA will prepare the Annual Financial Statement of SSSA according to
International Accounting Standards.
7.2    Quarterly Project Management Reports as presented in the Project Financial Management Manual
will be prepared by MOS and SSSA quarterly (at the end of each calendar quarter) and submitted to the Bank
within 45 days thereof MOS and SSSA will start preparing transitional PMRs which include:
3     1- A Project Sources and Uses of Funds;
3      11- B Uses of Funds by Project Activity;
3      1- C Special Account Statement;
3     2- A Output Monitoring Report (Contract Management) or 2- B Output Monitoring Report (Unit of
Output by Project Activity);
°     3- A Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works);
*     3- C Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works);
7.3.   At the time of the Bank's assessment MOS and SSSA had in-sufficient capacity to start preparing full
PMRs which could be the basis for disbursement. Moreover in the case of MOS the Ministry of Finance
require copies of invoices before authorizing the withdrawal funds from the special account. Therefore no
advances would be transferred to MOS. It is expected that MOS and SSSA will be able to produce full PMRs
within 18 months from the beginning of the Project.
7.4.   Annual Project Financial Statements will be prepared at the end of MOS's and SSSA's accounting
year i.e. as at 30 June each year during the Project life and at the closing date of the Project. The Statement
will include:
*     Project Sources and Uses of Funds showing separately the World Bank funds and other counterparts
received and expenditures by project categories and components both for the current year and
accumulated from the beginning of the project;
*     Special Account Statement showing the movements on the Special Account during the year (MOS
only);
*     Summary of Statements of Expenditures (this report should be made in case of disbursements on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures) showing the number of withdrawal applications together with
amount in a breakdown by loan category (MOS only).



Annex 6
Page 6 of 10
7.5.   The Annual Project Financial Statements should be audited and submitted to the Bank together with
the auditor's opinion, report and management letter within 6 months after the end of the accounting year.
7.6    SSSA's corporate Annual Financial Statements should be prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards and should be subject to audit performed in compliance with International Standards
of Auditing. The Annual Financial Statement together with the auditor's opinion, report and management
letter should be submitted to the Bank within 6 months after the end of the accounting year.
8.    Audit Arrangements
8.1    The financial management system of the project, including its records and accounts, will be
maintained in accordance with appropriate Polish regulations and principles that respect International
Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC).
8.2    The audits of MOS's and SSSA's Project Financial Statements and SSSA's corporate Annual
Financial Statement will be performed annually for each fiscal year of the life of the project as well as at the
completion of the Project in compliance with the International Standards on Auditing as issued by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The first audits of the Project Financial Statements are
expected for the year 2001. However, the first audit of SSSA's financial statement according to International
Accounting Standards is expected for year the 2000.
8.3    The scope of the Project audit will include an audit of the Annual Project Financial Statement and
additionally the Summary Statement of Expenditures (in case disbursement is done on basis of Statement of
Expenditures). Terms of reference are attached. The auditor is expected to issue an opinion on the Project
Accounts, Special Account Statement and Summary Statement of Expenditures.
8.4    The audited financial statement should be prepared and submitted to the Bank in two originals within
6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
8.5    The auditors have been selected by early November, 2000. In order to ensure continuity the auditor
appointed for the first year of the project implementation may continue the work for the following year(s) in
the event the borrower and the Bank confirm their satisfaction with the audit report delivered and invite the
firm to perform such assignment for the following year(s), in order to avoid appointment of different auditors
for each year of project implementation. The independent auditors should be members of a professional
auditing and accounting body that is acceptable to the Bank, e.g. a member of IFAC or KIBR. The audit
must be conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as issued by IFAC.
AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS
The Bank requires the audit of Annual Project Financial Statements and SSSA's corporate Financial
Statement. The auditor will be selected in accordance with the Polish procurement procedures since its cost
will be financed by the borrower. The method of procurement will be least cost selection after the quality
evaluation phase. The short list of auditors should be accepted by the Bank before the quality evaluation. The
auditor should be a member of professional auditing and accounting body e.g. IFAC, KIBR. If the short list
includes a local audit firm, the Bank will require additional information about the firm as per the
questionnaire included in Annex XVII of the Financial Auditing Reporting and Accounting Handbook
(FARAH). The auditors to be selected should be of high professional standards, well qualified to perform
the required audits and acceptable to the Bank. Criteria for selection of the auditors include familiarity with
Polish and international auditing and accounting standards, and proven experience in auditing companies
listed on the stock exchange and large enterprises.



Annex 6
Page 7 of 10
Terms of reference for audit of Project Financial Statement have been provided to the borrowers in hard and
computer copy and are attached below.
Terms of Reference for External Auditors
Audit of The Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project Financial Statements
Under SOE or PMR disbursement
Objective:
The objective of the audit of the Project Financial Statement (PFS) is to enable the auditor to express a
professional opinion on the financial position of the Project at the end of each fiscal year of Project
execution and of Project preparation in respect to the funds received and expenditures as reported by the PFS
as well as separate opinion on Special Account Statement (SAS).
The Project accounts (books of account) provide the basis for the preparation of the PFS and are established
to reflect the financial transactions in respect of the project, as maintained by the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU).
The Scope of Audit:
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The auditor should
indicate the extent (if any) to which the examination would not conform to those standards. The audit will
include such test and controls, as the auditor considers necessary to enable him to form an opinion under the
circumstances. In conducting the audit, special attention should be given to the following:
1.    That World Bank funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the Loan Agreement
(Loan number PL -.... Dated .... ) and the Project Appraisal Document (Report No .....dated .   ), and only
for the purposes they were provided;
2.    That source of funds from other agencies including the Government of Poland (GoP), local
authorities have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant financing agreements, with due
attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for which they were provided;
3.    That goods and services financed or co-financed by the World Bank have been procured in
accordance with the World Bank procurement procedures;
4.    That all the necessary documentation, records and accounts have been kept in respect of all project
ventures, including expenditure reported via Statement of Expenditures (SOE), the Special Account
Statement (SAS) or if applicable via Project Management Report (PMR). That there is a clear linkage
between the project's books and the reports submitted to the World Bank;
5.    The reliability of the system that produced the PMR (if applicable) and assessing of the possible risks
of continuing to use this method of disbursement in the future;
6.    That the Special Account is reconciled and maintained in accordance with the provisions set out in
the Loan Agreement and the Guidelines on Financial Reporting and Auditing of projects Financed by The
World Bank;
7.    That the project's reports have been prepared in accordance with consistently applied International
Accounting Standards (IAS) and give true and fair view of the financial situation of the project as at end of
each fiscal year and of resources and expenditures for the year ended on those dates; and
8.    The auditor should indicate any material deviations from IAS, where relevant, and their effect on the
annual Project Financial Statement.
Project Financial Statement:
The Project Financial Statements, prepared by the PIT and given to the auditor, should include as shown in
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook Annex XIII:



Annex 6
Page 8 of 10
9.     Project Sources and Uses of Funds showing separately the World Bank funds and other counterparts
received and expenditures by project categories both for the current year and accumulated from the beginning
of the project;
10.   Uses of Funds by Project Activity showing the expenditure by the project components both for the
current year and accumulated from the beginning of the project;
11.   Special Account Statement showing the movements on the Special Account during the year; and
12.    Summary of Statements of Expenditures (this report should be made in case of disbursement made on
basis of Statement of Expenditures) showing the number of withdrawal applications together with amount in
breakdown by loan category.
If the Project is using Statement of Expenditure (SOE) as a basis of disbursement the Summary of Statements
of Expenditures should be attached to PFS and be a subject of audit. Summary of Statements of Expenditures
is a schedule listing individual SOE withdrawal applications by specific reference number, loan category and
amount. The total withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be part of the overall reconciliation of the
Bank's disbursement.
As an annex to the Project Financial Statement, the auditor should prepare/obtain the reconciliation between
the amounts shown as "received by the project from the World Bank" and that shown as being disbursed by
the Bank. As a part of that reconciliation, the auditor should indicate the mechanism for the disbursement, i.e.
via Special Accounts, or direct reimbursement.
In addition to the audit of the Project Financial Statement, the auditor is required to audit expenditures
recorded in PMRs or SOE during the year, against which the Bank has made disbursement. The auditor
should apply such review and tests and controls, as he considers necessary. In particular the expenditures
should be carefully checked for project eligibility against relevant financing agreements (e.g. Loan
Agreement) and by reference to the Project Appraisal Document. Ineligible expenditures should be
identified. The Project Management Reports (PMR), prepared by the PIT and given to the auditor, should
conform with the format presented in the Project Financial Management Manual and the Project Appraisal
Document.
Disbursement based on PMRs is a matter of specific concern to the Bank. In summary, to provide the
necessary degree of reassurance with respect to PMRs, the auditor should:
1.    Examine the PMRs prepared during the year, the amounts disbursed on them and the movements and
balances on the Special Account and project bank account(s) during the year to ascertain how well the system
is working in general;
2.    Assess the methods used to compile PMRs to ascertain that the information given in PMRs
accurately reflects the underlying records and documents;
3.     Compare the format and content of PMRs prepared during the year, with those of the annual financial
statements for the year, verifying that the year to date figures in the final quarter PMR, are reconcilable with
the annual statements;
4.    Carry out tests to assess whether PMR-based disbursement has been used only for expenditures
eligible for Bank funding and list departures which have occurred; and
5.    Refer specifically in the audit opinion to the reliability of PMRs as a basis for disbursement and the
management of the Special Account.
Where ineligible expenditure is identified as having been included in withdrawal applications and reimbursed
against, the auditor should separately note these.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 10
Special Account Statement:
In conjunction with the audit of the Project Financial Statement, the auditor is also required to audit the
activities of the Special Account associated with the Project.
The Special Account usually compromises of:
1.    Deposits and replenishments received from the Bank;
2.    Payments substantiated by withdrawal applications;
3.    Interest that may be earned from the balances and which belong to the borrower;
4.    The remaining balance at the end of each fiscal year.
The auditor must form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the Bank's procedures and the balance
of the Special Account at the year-end. The audit should examine the eligibility and correctness of the
financial transactions during the period under review and fund balances at the end of such period, that the
operation and use of the Special Account is in accordance with the financing agreement and the adequacy of
internal controls for this type of disbursement system.
For this project, the Special Accounts are referred to in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement.
Audit Opinion:
Besides a primary opinion on the Project Financial Statement the annual audit report of the project accounts
should include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn
under the SOE or PMR-based procedures and the extent to which the Bank can rely on the SOE or PMR as a
basis for loan disbursement.
The auditor is also required to issue a separate opinion and report on the Special Account Statement. The
sample audit opinions are presented in FARAH in Annex XXI.
The Bank should receive the Project Financial Statement, including the audit opinions and report, no later
than 6 months after the end of the accounting period to which the audit refers. The PIT should submit two
originally signed copies of the audit opinions and report together with the Project Financial Statement to the
Bank.
Management Letter:
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter" in which the auditor will:
I.    Give comments and observations on the accounting records, system and controls that were examined
during the course of the audit;
2.    Identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and controls and make
recommendations for their improvement;
3.    Report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing agreement
and give comments, if any, on external matters affecting such compliance;
4.    Communicate matters that have caught the attention during the audit which might have a significant
impact on the implementation of the project;
5.    Bring the borrower's attention any other matters that the auditor considers pertinent
In case nothing comes to the attention of auditors, the auditor is required to confirm this in writing in the
Management Letter.



Annex 6
Page 10 of 10
The Management Letter should be delivered in two originally signed copies to the Bank.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other information
associated with the Project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation should also be obtained of
amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Bank. The Bank Financial Management Specialist can assist in
obtaining these confirmations.
It is highly desirable that the auditors become familiar with a copy of the Bank's Guidelines on Financial
Reporting of Projects Financed by the World Bank, which summarizes the Bank's financial reporting and
auditing requirements. The auditor should also be familiar with the Bank's Financial Accounting Reporting
and Auditing Handbook, The Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) - Implementation Handbook,
Project Financial Management Manual and Disbursement Manual.



Annex 7
Page I of 9
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
1.    Procurement Arrangements
1.    The proposed Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project's components, their
estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in Table A of this annex. The Bank's review
process is presented in Table B of this annex. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated
schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table C. The actions and findings of the capacity
of the implementing agencies are presented in Table D.
2.    The project will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed US$27.5 million loan to the Republic
of Poland and the US$11 million loan to the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority and the local
expenditure contributions from the Government. The total cost of the project would be $81.8 million.
Procurement activities under the project will all fall in the areas of civil works. These would be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January
1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
3.    A Country Procurement Assessment Review was prepared in January of 2000 (copy available in
RPA's office). The procurement administration capacity of the Project Implementation Units of the Szczecin
Maritime Office and the Port Authority has been assessed. They were both assessed as having an average
risk. The assessment report is attached to this Annex.
4.    The first General Procurement Notice was published in the Development Business issue dated March
31, 2000. The total value of IBRD financed contracts is estimated at $81.2 million. This amount will be
procured as follows:
5.    Civil Works: Periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction works. All Works contracts
will be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
6.    Prior and Post review of contracts: All IBRD financed works contracts under ICB will be subject
to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 9
Annex 7. Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other      N.B.F
1. Works
Physical Modernization of      54.8                                            54.8
Szczecin-Swinoujscie          (27.5)                                          (27.5)
Seaway
Port of Szczecin-              14.6                                            14.6
Swinoujscie: Katowice          (6.2)                                           (6.2)
Peninsula
Port of Szczecin-              11.8                                            11.8
Swinoujscie: Grabowski         (4.8)                                           (4.8)
Island
2. Services
Technical Assistance for                                          0.6           0.6
Dredging                                                          (0.0)        (0.0)
Total                       81.2                                0.6          81.8
(38.5)                             (0.0)        (38.5)
Note: N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed. This is the Technical Assistance component for MOS which will be
financed from its budget.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan



Annex 7
Page 3 of 9
Annex 7. Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
Us$                                        Us$
1. Works                    >2mill.                ICB             >2mill./8 1 .2mill.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  81.2 mill.



Annex 7
Paee 4 of 9
Annex 7. Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan to the Government of Poland
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Financing Percentage
.___________________________________________  US$million
1. Works
Physical Modernization of Szczecin-                    25.0              50%
Swinoujscie Seaway
2. Fee                                                  0.3             100%
3. Unallocated                                          2.2
Total            27.5
Loan to Szczecin-Swinou scie Seaport Authority
Expenditure Category                 Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
1. Works
Katowice Peninsula, Grabowski Island                 9.9               45%
2. Fee                                                  0.1             100%
3. Premia for Interest Rate Caps and Collars            0.0              100%
4. Unallocated                                          1.0
Total            11.0 



Poland: Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Annex 7. Table D: Procurement Plan
1                  2            3            4            5                                     6. Estimated dates
Description                   BID ID   No. of         Estimated   Procurement  Pre-qual /SL        (BD/RFP)         Bid                 Contract     Contract
slices/items/   cost      Method                                                                Signing      Completion
sub-packages   $ Million                1. Invitation       1. Preparation    1. Invitation
GNP/SPN/Local                       GNP/SPN/Local
2. Opening                          2. Opening
3. Eval & Recom.                    3. Eva) & Recom.
1. Works
1.1. Maritime Office Szczecin-
Swinoujscie Seaway
MO. I                                  ICB       1. August 16, 00    From Jan 20, 01   1. March 26, 01   Aug. 1, 01    Dec. 31, 03
Slope Protection           MO.la          2           29.8        Lot 1      2. October 3, 00    To March 1,01    2. May 21, 01
Breakwaters                MO.lb                      22.1        Lot 2      3. Nov. 27, 00                      3. June 22, 01
Containment Areas           MO.2          1           2.9         ICB              NA
1.2. Port Authority
Port of Szczecin
PO.I                                  ICB        1. Oct.30, 00      From Dec 15, 00  1. May 21, 01       Sept.10, 01   Jun. 30, 05
Katowice Peninsula         PO.la          2           14.6        Lot 1      2. Dec 15, 00      To Apr. 25, 01    2. July 23, 01
Ostrow Grabowski            P0.1b                     11.8        Lot 2      3. Jan 15, 01                       3. August 13, 01
2. Services                    _
2.1. Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Seaway
I'A and Training for New
Dredging Methods             I           1           (0.6)       NBF              NA                 NA                NA              NA           NA
TO TA L                       _ _ _  _  __     81.2      _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   _ _  _ _  _  _ _   _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _
° >
-e<



Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Annex 7. Table E: PROCUREMENT CAPACITY ASSSESSMENT
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND ACTIONS
Item Assessed                       Assessment                                          Risk Assessment
Null    Poor    Fair    Satis-       Major Weakness                                               Actions              Proposed
factory                        Low         Ave.        High             Proposed            Completion
Date
(a) Legal Aspects
(i) Laws & Regulations                                                    X                _X
(ii) NCB Procedures                                        X                            X
(iii) Intemal Codes and                                    X                            X
Manuals
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.                                                                                                  Proc. Consultant will be
hired for the PIT by
Negotiations in July
(i) General handling                             X                                                  X
ii) Proc. Planning                                X                                                  X                  MOS and SSSA will follow
Proc. Plan agreed at
appraisal
(iii) Preparation of Documents                             X                                        X                  MOS and SSS Proc.
Specialists will attend 3
day procurement training at
___________      ~project launch.
(iv) Mgmt. Of Process                            X                                                  X
(v) Bid Evaluation                      X                                                                       X      WB guidelines on
evaluation will be allowed.
(vi) Contract Award                              X                                                              X
(vii) Preparation and signing                    X                                                              X
of contracts
(viii) ContractManagement                        X                                                              X
(c) Organization and Functions
(i) Organization of Unit and                     X                                                  x
Functions
(ii) Internal manuals and                        X                                                  X
Instructions
(d) Support and Control
System
(i) Auditing                                     X                                                  X
(ii) Legal Assistance                            X                                                  X           .
(iii) Technical and                              X                                                  X
Admin. Controls
(iv) Code of Ethics                                                     .
(v) Anticorruption Initiatives                   X                        X _
(e) Record Keeping                                                                                  Xto > 
(i) Public Notices                               X                        X                         x                                                                   x
NC0 -4



Item Assessed                       Assessment                                          Risk Assessment
Null    Poor    Fair    Satis-       Major Weakness                                               Actions              Proposed
factory                      Low                   Ave.     H           Proposed            Completion
i                                 Date
g
h
(ii) Bidding Documents                           X                                                           X
(iii) Bid Opening Information                    X                                                           X
(iv) Bid Evaluation Report                       X                                                           X
(v) Formal Appeals and                           X                                                           X
outcomes
(vi) Signed Contract                             X                                                           X
Document
(vii) Claims and dispute                         X                                                           X
Resolution Records
(viii) Comprehensive                             X                                                           X
Disbursement Data
(f) Staffing
(g) General Procurement                          X                                                           X
Environment
(i) Promoting a Culture of                       X                                                           X
Accountability
(ii) Reputation of Procurement                   X                                                           X
Corps
(iii) Salary Structure                           X                                                           X      _
(iv) Freedom From Political                      X                                                           X
Interference
(v) Existence of Experienced                     X                                                           X
and Capable Staff
(vi) Clear Written Standards                     X                                                           X
and Delegation of Authority
(vii) Sound Budget/Financial                     X                                                           X
Systems
(h) Private Sector Assessment
(i) General Efficiency and                       X                                                           X
Predictability
(ii) Transparency                                X                                                           X
(iii) Quality of Contract                        X                                                           X
Management
(iv) General Reputation                          X                                                           X      =
" X
'o x.



Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                                    Overall Risk Assessment
High
Works: All Contracts
Consulting contracts with firm US$100,000 or more (equivalent)                        Average       1
Post Review Ratio: 100%                                                                  Low
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed: Once                        Form Prepared By: Els Hinderdael
every 6 months in the first year of implementation and then every year.             (Senior Procurement Specialist/Accredited Staff Assigned to the
Project)
Signature: Els Hinderdael
Date: June 12, 2000
Comments: The Public Procurement System in Poland is economic, efficient and transparent. The Public Procurement Office of Poland,
which reports directly to the Council of Ministers, ensures an effective implementation of the provisions of the Public Procurement Law.
This Office, since its establishment, has made continuous efforts to improve the law in order to make it more transparent. It has introduced
standard bidding documents and guidelines. Therefore, the existing procurement law and the relevant pieces of legislation have created a
procurement environment in Poland, which is conducive to transparent, fair and economic and competitive. Nevertheless, since the
implementation agencies, which will implement the project, have little experience in WB procurement, these have to be placed in the average
risk category. The procurement monitoring and reporting will be coordinated by the PITs, who will submit the quarterly reports from the
MOS and SSSA to the Bank.
q >
00
'.0 -w



Annex 7
Pa2e 9 of 9
2.    Disbursement Arrangements
The MOS will start with the traditional method of disbursement based on Statements of Expenditure
with an option to move to PMR based disbursement agreement with the Bank. Withdrawal applications
should be presented on a monthly basis. SOE and eventually PMR supporting documentation will be kept in
the MOS premises in the finance department. They should be made available for the Bank supervision and
auditor. SSSA will use solely direct payments.



Annex 8
Page 1 of3
Szczecin - Swinouj§cie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Project Implementation Plan for the Seaway Component (MOS)
Action                            Responsible               Date
I. Project Inception Phase
Establishment of the Project Implementation Team (PIT)  MTME / MOS           March 1, 2000
Credit negotiations in the Lender's seat- signature of the    MTME/MoF/MOS    July 20, 2000
agreed Minutes from Negotiations
Acceptance of the resolution on approval of the       THE CABINET           November 2, 2000
negotiation results, authorization of the Minister of
Finance for signature of the Loan Agreement
Taking decision on granting loan by the Board of           WB               December 7, 2000
Directors of the Bank
Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement                        WB                March 5, 2001
Training of the Expert for Public Orders in the scope of  MTME / MOS       September 6/7, 2000
bidding procedures of the World Bank
II. Pre-qualification of contractors
Defnition of the scope of works covered by the contract   MOS                 June 30, 2000
for the purpose of pre-qualification of contractors
Finalization of pre-qualification documents
Analysis and approval ("non objection") of pre-           MOS                 July 27, 2000
qualification documents                                    WB               August 11, 2000
Publication of the call for pre-qualification in the
domestic and foreign press as well as in the embassies of  MOS               August16, 2000
the World Bank member countries
Filling in the pre-qualification forms and submission of  CONTRACTORS        October 3, 2000
bids
Assessment of forms submitted by contractors and        MOS BC             November 14, 2000
recommendations
Analysis and approval of the results of the pre-           WB              November 27, 2000
qualification of contractors
Notifying the contractors about the results of pre-       MOS              November 28, 2000
qualification
III. Detailed definition of the scope of works covered
by the project*
Finalization of the bidding documents for working out of  MOS                 June 1, 2000
the project documentation and invitation for bidding
Bidding for project documentation                        MOS BC               July 15, 2000
Selection of contractor and signature of contract for the  MOS BC           October 16, 2000
project documentation
Carrying out of the project documentation            DESIGN OFFICE          January 22, 2001



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
IV. Bids for civil engineering works
Finalization of the bidding documents                          MOS               March 1, 2001
Analysis and approval ("non objection") of the bidding         WB               March 22, 2001
documents
Calling of the qualified Contractors for submission of bids    MOS              March 26, 2001
Preparation and submission of bids                       CONTRACTORS             May 21, 2001
Assessment of bids and recommendations                       MOS BC              June 22, 2001
Analysis and approval ("non objection") of recommendations      WB               July 16,2001
Notifying contractors about the results of the bid and call for  MOS             July 18, 2001
contract negotiations
Negotiations and signature of contract                         MOS               August 1, 2001
First advance payment                                      MTME / MOS           August 15, 2001
Commencement of works                                     CONTRACTOR           September 1, 2001
V. Establishment of the investment trustee, representing
the Maritime Office in the investment process*
Formulation of bidding documents for the investment trust and  MOS              March 15, 2001
invitation for bidding
Bidding for the investment trust                             MOS BC               May 2, 2001
Selection of the investment trustee (IT) and concluding of   MOS BC              May 15,2001
contract. The appointment for the post of the Contract Engineer
shall be defined within the contract.
Detailed arrangements in the scope of monitoring and control  MOS / IT           May 30, 2001
of the project implementation with regards to the assessment of
execution, method of settlements and reporting between MOS
and the Contractor
Arrangements in the scope of accountancy, reporting and      MOS / IT            June 15, 2001
accounting audit between the World Bank and MOS and
investment trustee
Approval by the World Bank of the arrangements in the scope     WB               July 16, 2001
of accountancy procedures and reporting procedures
VI. Technical assistance for definition and implementation
of modern, ecological procedures for the execution of
dredging works
Finalizing of the Terms of Reference for the technical         MOS               June 25, 2001
assistance
Calling of the qualified Consultants for submission of bids    MOS                July 5, 2001
Preparation and submission of preliminary bids            CONSULTANTS           August 16, 2001
Preparation and submission of final bids                 CONSULTANTS            August 30, 2001
Negotiations and signature of contract                       MOS BC               Sept. 6, 2001
Training of the selected group of approximately 14 persons in    CONSULTANTS     Oct. 15, 2001
the scope of the approved form of technical assistance.
VII. Deposit Field for Contaminated Dredged Material    MOS/MTME/WB               2004-2005
VIII. Execution of civil engineering works, partial          MOS/IT/         According to contracts
acceptances                                              CONTRACTORS
IX. Final acceptances and final settlement of contracts      MOS/IT/         According to contracts
CONTRACTORS
* Bidding procedure for Not-Bank-Financed components shall proceed in accordance with the domestic regulations.
Abbreviations: MOS - Maritime Office in Szczecin MTME - Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
MoF - Ministry of Finance WB - World Bank MOS BC - Maritime Office in Szczecin, Bidding Committee



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
Proiect implementation principles
1. Rehabilitation and modernization components: They will be managed and implemented by the Maritime
Office in Szczecin, relying on its technical staff. The Contract Engineer shall be employed under separate
contract. The works supervising unit and the Contract Engineer (acting within that unit) shall be selected in
the way of bid organized on the basis of the Polish Law (Act on Public Orders) and shall be financed with
own funds of the Maritime Office in Szczecin.
2. Overall Project Co-ordination: the Chairman of the Project Implementation Unit is the project Co-ordinator.
As the Project Implementation Unit consists of the employees of the Maritime Office in Szczecin, those units
provide themselves with any assistance that may be essential with regards to the implementation of tasks
resulting from the Project. The training program shall be managed and implemented by the Project Co-
ordinator.
3. Proiect Procurement Plan: the Overall Procurement Plan directly results from the Project Implementation
Plan (see the table). Detailed Procurement Plan shall be made on the basis of the dates of works execution,
defined in the course of the bidding procedures.
4. Project Supervision: responsibility for the continuous supervision over the Project shall be vested with the
Project Co-ordinator. As the Maritime Office in Szczecin is responsible for the content-related
implementation of the Project, and the financial service is conducted by the Ministry of Transport and
Maritime Economy, the particular components of the quarterly reports shall be accordingly prepared by those
units. Quarterly progress reports shall be submitted to the Bank, including in particular:
(a) status of procurement operations for each component (MOS),
(b) updated Project procurement plan (MOS),
(c) updated Project implementation timetable (MOS),
(d) status of credit commitments and disbursements (MTME / MOS),
(e) updated disbursement schedule (MTME / MOS),
(f) utilization of special accounts (MTME).
5. Accountancy: Project accounts shall be submitted yearly to the Bank (MTME).
6. Supervision from the Bank side: the Bank supervisory delegation shall carry out control at least twice a year
or according to the Project requirements and shall consist of a port specialist, a transport economist, and at
least once a year a financial analyst.



Annex 9
Page I of 4
Szczecin - Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Project Implementation Plan for the Port Component
Project scope and objectives
The objective of the port modernization program is the improvement and development of physical
facilities in the port of Szczecin, so that it will provide efficient service in competition with other ports.
The project will help implement the newly established framework in Szczecin, by strengthening the
landlord function of the new Szczecin-Swinoujgcie Seaport Authority (SSSA) through a concrete example of
capacity modernization and development in partnership with the private sector. The project will support
increased private sector participation in port activities (involvement in commercial operations).
The final scope of the project was established following a detailed update of present requests submitted to
SSSA by existing and prospective private operators. The scope has been reduced to adapt the first
development stage to immediate market needs, and to match SSSA's financial possibilities. The final project
scope is as follows:
v Katowice Peninsula: Construction of 390m of new berthing facilities for both sea-going ships and river
barges, and land preparation of 160,000 sqm, with related road and rail access. Total cost (including 22%
VAT): US$13.9 million; proposed loan amount: US$6.0 million (50% of total cost without taxes).
- Grabowski Island: Construction of 232m of new berthing facilities for sea-going ships and land
preparation of 150,000 sqm, with related road and rail access. Total cost (including 22% VAT): US$11.4
million; proposed loan amount: US$5.0 million (50% of total cost without taxes).
Economic Aspects
The benefits to be derived by the Polish economy from the proposed investments are as follows. By
providing facilities which, compared to Szczecin port's existing berths, are less crowded and more custom-
designed to the specific commodities, the proposed investments will lower the costs of handling existing
traffic flows, enable Szczecin to attract traffic which would otherwise transit through other ports or go
overland, and make possible new trade flows which would otherwise have been deterred by high transport
costs. These three categories may be designated existing, diverted and generated traffic respectively.
The project implementation
The projects will be implemented by Project Implementation Team. The Project Implementation Team
has been set up in order to ensure the long-term and comprehensive co-ordination and integration of
investment undertakings to be implemented on Grabowski Island and Katowice Peninsula by S§SA. The
assignments of the Project Implementation Team are in particular:
* to integrate and co-ordinate implementation undertakings in each stage of the investment process,
implemented by the particular functional departments of the Company,
* to provide a uniform management system of the whole Project,
* to set up and constantly implement procedures (in accordance with requirements of the World Bank).
The project Implementation Team (PIT) established by SSSP is responsible for the management,
administration, and coordination of the project. The PIT is composed of 12 persons who are employed in
various departments of SSSA. This Team is managed by the Project Director, member of the Board in SSSA.
The assignments connected with the project implementation have been divided among particular members of
the Project Implementation Team. The main subjects of the Team are: programming of environment
development with particular regard to influence of changes on implemented projects (3 persons are



Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
responsible), investment supervision and management of bidding procedures (2 persons are responsible for it),
and financial management and accounting supervision (2 persons are responsible).
The main functions of the Project Implementation Team.
* !IMonitor and coordinate the activities of the project until its completion, including the one-year
guarantee maintenance period of civil works,
*    Liaise with the Bank in all matters concerning project implementation and supervision,
*   Provide advice and assistance on procurement matters, and clear procurement documents in order to
ensure that they meet Bank Procurement Guidelines,
*    Submit to the Bank disbursements applications; in particular, provide documented submission of
withdrawal applications to the Bank to permit the project account to be replenished in time to ensure
that payments to contractors are not delayed, and that the progress of works and services are adhered to,
*    Monitor and supervise the project accounts,
*    Providing financial monitoring of all expenditures under the loan and for requesting such assistance
from implementing agencies to ensure this occurs (this includes, among other requirements, quarterly
and annual progress and financial reports to the Government, and the Bank, in accordance with their
reporting requirements),
*   Provide comprehensive information on rehabilitation and new construction works, including the extent
of work progress, labor involvement, work quality and payments due and made to contractors, and the
overall situation; provide copies of any amended design proposals, consultants construction manuals and
project operational performance indicators,
*    Submit to the Bank the annual Project audit reports, prepared by independent auditors, as described in
the legal documents.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
ACTION                         RESPONSIBLE                  DATE
I. PROJECT INCEPTION PHASE
Establishment of the Project Implementation Team       SSSA                 June 1, 2000
(PIT)
Loan negotiations in the Lender's seat - signature of
the agreed Minutes of Negotiations                 WB/MoF/SSSA             July 18-21, 2000
Acceptance of the resolution on approval of the
negotiation results, authorization of the Minister of
Finance for signature of the Loan Agreement        THE CABINET            November 2 2000
Taking decision on granting loan by the Board of
Directors of the Bank                                   WB                December 12, 2000
Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement                     WB                  March 5, 2001
II. PRE-QUALIFICATION OF CONTRACTORS
Definition of the scope of works covered by the
contract for the purpose of pre-qualification of        PIT                August 20, 2000
contractors
Finalization of pre-qualification documents             PIT               September 20, 2000
Analysis and approval ("non objection") of pre-         WB                 October 20, 2000
qualification documents
Publication of the call for pre-qualification in the    PIT                October 30, 2000
domestic and foreign press as well as in the embassies
of the World Bank member countries
Filling in the pre-qualification forms and submission of   CONTRACTORS    December 15, 2000
bids
Assessment of forms submitted by contractors and        PIT               January 15, 2001
recommendations
Analysis and approval of the results of the pre-        WB                February 12, 2001
qualification of contractors
Notifying the contractors about the results of pre-     PIT               February 20, 2001
qualification
III. DETAILED DEFINITION OF THE SCOPE
OF WORKS COVERED BY THE
CONTRACT*
1. Katowice Peninsula
Finalization of the bidding documents for working out   PIT                 June 1, 2000
of the project documentation and invitation for bidding
Bidding for project documentation                       PIT                 June 15, 2000
Selection of contractor and signature of contract for the  PIT              June 20, 2000
project documentation
Carrying out of the project documentation         DESIGN OFFICE           November 1, 2000
2. Grabowski Island
Finalization of the bidding documents for working out   PIT                 July 25, 2000
of the project documentation and invitation for bidding
Bidding for project documentation                       PIT                 July 31, 2000
Selection of contractor and signature of contract for the  PIT             August 5, 2000
project documentation
Carrying out of the project documentation         DESIGN OFFICE            January 1, 2001
IV. BIDS FOR CIVIL ENGINEERING WORKS
Katowice Peninsula and Grabowski Island
Finalization of the bidding documents                   PIT                 April 20, 2001
Approval of the bidding documents and sending them      PIT                 April 25, 2001
to the World Bank



Annex 9
Pave 4 of 4
Analysis and approval ("non objection") of the bidding    WB                   May 14,2001
documents
Calling of the qualified Contractors for submission of    PIT                  May 21, 2001
bids
Preparation and submission of bids                  CONTRACTORS                July 23, 2001
Assessment of bids and recommnendations                   PIT                 August 13, 2001
Analysis and approval ("non objection") of                WB                  August 27, 2001
recommendations
Notifying contractors about the results of the bid and    PIT                September 3, 2001
call for contract negotiations
Negotiations and signature of contract                    PIT               September 10, 2001
First advance payment                                     PIT               September 25, 2001
Commencement of works                                CONTRACTOR               October 25, 2001
V. EXECUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERING                 PIT/CONTRACTORS          According to contracts
WORKS, PARTIAL ACCEPTANCES
VI. FINAL ACCEPTANCES AND FINAL                   PIT/CONTRACTORS          According to contracts
SETTLEMENT OF CONTRACTS
* bidding procedure for Not-Bank-Financed components shall proceed in accordance with the domestic regulations.
Abbreviations:
SSSA - Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
MoF - Ministry of Finance WB - World Bank
PIT - Project Implementation Team



Annex 10
Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
Within the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE
SEAPORT AUTHORITY S.A.
Szczecin, I June 2000
Ordinance No. 16/2000
on establishing coordinating unitfor implementation of capitalproject
to befinanced in cooperation with the World Bank
In consideration of a need to establish at a corporate level a system of long-term and comprehensive coordination and
management of capital tasks to be implemented on Ostrow Grabowski and Katowice Peninsula within the frames of
proposed investment project financed under the World Bank loan
I hereby order to:
I.     Appoint a Coordinating unit for implementation port investment project to be financed under the World Bank
loan, composed of:
Mr. Leszek Bursiak, Member of the Management Board - Project Manager
and the following members:
I)     Ms. Jurata Kacalska,
2)     Ms. Danuta Morawska,
3)     Mr. Marek Trojnar - programming officer responsible for coordination of project background and changes
therein, which might affect the project,
4)     Ms. Hanna Kulifiska,
5)     Mr. Andrzej Rosa - investment supervision and procurement procedures,
6)     Ms. Stefania Bojakowska,
7)     Ms. Malgorzata Machera - financial management and accounts supervisions,
8)     Mr. Zygmunt Pasieka - legal advisor,
9)     Mr. Daniel Lysakowski - IT,
10)    Mr. Zbigniew Pietka - coordination of technical aspects,
11)    Ms. Elibieta Brocka - administration and secretarial services.
The Project Manager has a right to appoint new members of the team, as required.
2.     The team shall in particular:
1)     manage and coordinate implementation of tasks through individual stages of investment life cycle, to be
implemented by selected divisions of the Company,
2)     implement harmonized management system for the whole project,
3)     introduce and consequently implement relevant procedures, as required by the World Bank.
3.     Managers of individual divisions of the Company and their services shall undertake to cooperate closely with the
Unit within the scope of implemented tasks.
4.     This ordinance shall become effective as of the date of signature.
Signed: Andrzej Montwill
President of the Management Board



Annex I I
Page I of 6
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
Project Procedures Manual
The main functions of the Project Implementation Team.
*     Monitor and coordinate the activities of the project until its completion, including the one-year
guarantee maintenance period of civil works,
*     Liaise with the Bank in all matters concerning project implementation and supervision,
*     Provide advice and assistance on procurement matters, and clear procurement documents in order to
ensure that they meet Bank Procurement Guidelines,
*      Submit to the Bank disbursements applications; in particular, provide documented submission of
withdrawal applications to the Bank and other cofinancier to permit the project account to be replenished in
time to ensure that payments to contractors are not delayed, and that the progress of works and services are
adhered to,
*     Monitor and supervise the project accounts,
*     Providing financial monitoring of all expenditures under the loan and for requesting such assistance
from implementing agencies to ensure this occurs (this includes, among other requirements, quarterly and
annual progress and financial reports to the Government, the Bank, and cofinanciers, in accordance with their
reporting requirements),
*     Provide comprehensive information on rehabilitation and new construction works, including the
extent of work progress, labor involvement, work quality and payments due and made to contractors, and the
overall situation; provide copies of any amended design proposals, consultants construction manuals and
project operational performance indicators,
*     Submit to the Bank the annual Project audit reports, prepared by independent
*     Auditors, as described in the legal documents.
The Financial and Accounting Specialists responsibilities.
*     Review the statutory requirements of the country on accounting, financial management, financial
reporting and auditing, government's role in determining accounting, auditing practices, standards of the local
accounting profession (such review will provide a framework and good basis for assessing project accounting
and financial management systems) and next arrange system which will be in keeping with internationally
accepted standards,
*     Make judgements on the management, maintenance of books of accounts, and on the production of
financial information,
*     Orient PIT with all World Bank's disbursement guidelines,
*     Design and install project accounting package for the PITI,
*     The scope of work will incorporate both local requirements and World Bank requirements,
*     Design Chart of Accounts which is the primary tool for ensuring the availability of the information
required for achieving consistency in the account classification (Minimum requirement for the project is to
report by major disbursement categories: works, goods, and consultants' service. Project costs need to be
classified and reported in a way that allows them to be directly related to specific work activities and outputs
of the project. The design framework will need to include, inter-alia, the ability to track and report on the
following project elements: cash receipts by funding source; cash disbursements by Loan Agreement
category, project component and sub-component; funding source, Special Account - payments,
replenishments, bank account reconciliation; actual expenditures vs. Budget contract expenditures and
procurement management; and performance monitoring indicators).



Annex 1 I
Page 2 of 6
* Review arrangements to record project impacts, outcomes, outputs, and inputs that are required to assess
project progress toward project objectives and implementation goals, ensure that the indicators derived are
measurable and have a direct relationship to the related project components, and ensure that the indicators are
available and reliable,
* Post test entries and design Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) format for review and comments
by the World Bank,
* Develop internal control procedures, assess features of project internal control and define procedures which
enhance the safeguarding of project assets, minimize the potential for unauthorized or inappropriate use of
project resources and provide for the timely and efficient projection of project financial management reports,
* Advise on developing a filing and record management system to meet international audit guidelines,
* Be available and ready to answer any questions about financial management and accounting system of the
project.
The Procurement Specialists responsibilities.
The Procurement Specialists will be responsible to the Project Director for implementing project responsibilities
in respect of management of international and local procurement of works, goods and services in accordance with
bank guidelines. The Procurement Specialists will work in close coordination with the International Procurement
Specialist (Consultant). Specific duties are:
- Prepare bidding documents in compliance with the World Bank Guidelines,
- Coordinate preparation of Technical Specifications for the bidding packages,
- Ensure that the commercial as well as the technical clauses of the BD's are of a high quality and are in
conformance with of the requirements of the latest World Bank procurement Guidelines,
- Prepare properly all bidding packages,
- Obtain necessary approvals and clearances for the bidding documents,
- Prepare advertisements of Bids,
- Participate in bid evaluation and prepare the Bank's standard bid evaluation reports for all contracts subject
to prior review,
- Prepare the procurement plan/schedule in consultation with the Borrower/Bank and rationalize the bidding
packages to ensure timely handling of the bidding procedures,
- Accordingly, determine the appropriate procurement method, prepare a procurement time schedule for the
implementation of the procurement plan to reflect the major stages in the procurement process (availability of
technical specifications, issuance of bidding documents, Bank's no objection dates, submission of bid
evaluation reports, contract signing and contract closing dates) and agree it with the World Bank,
- Coordinate creation of a record keeping system for all prior review and especially post review contracts,
- Check payment requests within the Project Implementation Team (PIT) for compliance with the contractual
provisions before they are authorized by the Project Director for execution (from the Special Account or
Credit Account),
- Prepare quarterly procurement reports,
- Participate in the preparation of the progress reports,
- Strengthen the procurement management capabilities of the PIT,
- Assist the PIT in contract management and administration of all signed contracts under the loan.
Financial management system and financial and account procedures for the Project of SSSA
1. The circulation of Project documents and their account recording will be performed in conformance
with the Accounting Act of 29.09.1994 with the further changes and General Instructions concerning with
making out, circulation and checking of account records. This Instruction foresees audit and verification of
account records in respect of substantial, formal and account aspects - before their acceptance by Chief
Accountant and approval of Director.



Annex II
Page 3 of 6
The scope of substantial audit contains among other things checking of:
* prices being in use;
* carrying out of deliveries, works and services in respect of quality, quantity and value and conformity with
agreements, orders and Acceptance Reports;
*  carrying out of services in accordance with schedules, and terms of agreements; and
* contents of all type of book entries and financial transactions contained in documentation.
Within the formal and account audit there is necessity to settle that account record has been made out in right
way, with all elements of correct record and without any account errors. Such audit has been performed by the
account staff and within the scope of its duties.
In order to exact identification of documents connected with the Project, all account records will be described
and qualified respectively by the tasks: Katowice Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski.
2. The account records connected with implementation of the Project will be written down in the account
instruments with the use of electronic methods on separated accounts and in accordance with the standing
account principles (see chart of accounts to the Project, being an integral part of Port's Chart of Accounts - in
enclosure). This chart enables classification of data in groups, which are necessary to make quarterly, and yearly
Project Management Report. The account records and account books will be kept in the seat of Company and
they will be protected against third party.
3. The payment application concerning the World Bank's means will be prepared in one-month periods by
the Financial Settlement Section on the form no. 1903 1 E (1-92). The first advance will be paid out on the base
of delivered contract containing investments work and connected with the Project. Further advances will be paid
out on base of the application and statement of invoices (encl. no. I) with their copies. Applications connected
with release of means of World Bank credit and orders to pay for the Special Account will be signed by the two
empowered persons. The power of attorney to sign "orders to pay " from the Special Account of the World Bank
has been granted on the following persons stipulated in the Trade Register:
Andrzej Montwill Chairman of the Board
Janusz Catewicz   Member of the Board
Krzysztof Zyndul Member of the Board
Ryszard Dzikowski Member of the Board
Leszek Bursiak          Member of the Board
Krzysztof KaminiskiAttorney
Marek Trojnar           Attorney
Ewa Stefanowicz Attorney
Hubert Binerowski Attorney
Zygfryd Zelman   Attorney
We intend to open Special Account for the Project in the 3rd Branch of Bank PEKAO S.A. in Szczecin.
4. The quarterly Project Management Reports will be made out in conformance with the fixed form (in
enclosure) on base of information gathered from book entries, on separated - in analytical way- accounts and on
base of actual plan of implementation of the Project. The quarterly financial reports containing: Project Sources
and Uses of Funds (I-A), Uses of Funds by Project Activity (1-B), Special Account (S.A.) Statement will be
performed by Mrs. Malgorzata Machera and Mrs. Stefania Bojakowska. The Output Monitoring Report Contract
Management (2-A) will be worked our by the Mrs. Hanna Kuliniska and Mr. Andrzej Rosa. The Reports,
approved by the Project Director and by the Chairman of the Board, will be delivered to the World Bank within
45 days after the end of each quarter.



Annex I I
Page 4 of 6
5. The yearly financial reports of the Project containing:
a)  statement concerning sources and uses of funds (I-A),
b)   detailed statement of the Project expenditures (l-B),
c)   Special Account (S.A.) Statement,
d)   Summary Statement of Payments,
will be made out till the 30th of April of the next year by Mrs. Malgorzata Machera and Mrs. Stefania
Bojakowska.
The yearly Project Statement subjects to the auditor's examination. The examined the Financial Project Statement
with proper opinion, Report and Letter of Intent will be delivered till the 30h of June of the next year to the
World Bank in two original copies in English. The yearly financial Reports of SSS-A will be made out in
accordance with account principles and International Accounting Standards. The verified and examined
statement will be delivered to the World Bank up to June 30th of the next year with two original copies of Report
and opinion of the auditor (in English language).
6. Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works) Reports (3-A) and Contract Expenditure Reports
(Goods and Works) (3-C) will be prepared by Mr. Andrzej Rosa and Mrs. Hanna Kuliniska.
Principles of the analytical recording concerning of economic events and financial transactions of the
SgSA Project in collection composing subsidiary books in connection with the proper accounts of the Main
Book in the SSSA.
1 . The element of account symbol with the first three marks means synthetic account; with this account there is
connected the group of analytical accounts being the further extension of this account's symbol.
2. The analytical accounts contain also index of contractor "K" - in order to settle the particular transactions
regarding purchase of materials, works and services and financial settlement.
3. Statement of symbols and names of accounts.
3.1.           Type of economic transactions of the Project
1  2 3 4  5 6 7 8 9 10   1   1
0  8 3                               Commenced investments
I  0 0                      Project - Katowice Peninsula
6                   Investment materials - purchased
I                from abroad
2                in Poland
7                   Construction and assembly works - implemented by
foreign deliverers
I                domestic deliverers
2                Others
9                   Foreign
I                interest in time of investments implementation
difference of rates
2              domestic
2                interest in time of investments implementation
Project - Grabowski Island
I  0     1_                    _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _   _     _
1 2 3  4 5 6 7 8 9 10  11  12
0 8 4                                Completed investment
I 0 0                       Project - Katowice Peninsula



Annex I I
Page 5 of 6
3                     Capital goods
4                     Property rights, licences, patents
I     1                     Project - Grabowski Island
0 1 1                                Capital goods
x x                          by type groups - accepted to operating activity on
base of account evidence of acceptance of fixed
assets
0 2 0  ____________________________ Property rights, licences, patents
x x                          by type - accepted to use on base of account
evidence
of acceptance of fixed assets
3.2 Contracting parties
1  2 3 4  5 6 7 8 9 10  11  12
2  0 4                               Settlement with home deliverers and receivers
1 K                          Liabilities by contracting parties
I                      To finance with the World's Bank means
2                      To finance with own sources
3                      Prefinancing by SSS-A
2  K                         Payables by contracting parties
I                      To finance from the World Bank means
2                      To finance from own sources
3                      Prefinancing by SSS-A
2  0 6                                Settlement with foreign deliverers and receivers
I K                          Liabilities by contracting parties
I                      To finance with the World Bank means
2                      To finance with own sources
3                      Prefinancing by SSS-A
2                            Payables by contracting parties
K  I                      To finance with the World Bank means
2                      To finance with own sources
3                      Prefinancing by SSS-A
2 2 5                                 VAT rate counted for services connected with the
Project of SSS-A
Services of current month
2                          VAT rate directly counted
I                       VAT invoices
2                       Correcting invoices (-)
3                       Correcting invoices (+)
3                          VAT rate indirectly counted off
I                       VAT invoices
2                       Correcting invoices (-)
3                       Correcting invoices (+)
2                            Services of next month
2                          VAT rate directly counted off
I                       VAT invoices
2                       Correcting invoices (-)
3                       Correcting invoices (+)
4                          VAT rate indirectly settled



Annex 1 I
Page 6 of 6
VAT invoices
2                        Correcting invoices (-)
_ 3                      Correcting invoices (+)
2 4 7  x x                            Other settlements in virtue of implementation of the
Project
Legal basis: Accounting Act of September 29, 1994.
The Scope of Audit
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing. The auditor should
indicate the extent (if any) to which the examination would not conform to those standards. The audit will
include such test and controls, as the auditor considers necessary to enable him to form an opinion under the
circumstances.
The objective of the audit of the Project Financial Statement is to enable the auditor to express a
professional opinion on the financial position of Project at the end of each fiscal year of Project execution and of
Project preparation in respect to the funds received and expenditures as reported by the PFS as well as separate
opinion on Special Account Statement.
The Project accounts (books of account) provide the basis for the preparation of the PFS and are
established to reflect the financial transactions in respect of the project, as maintained by the Project
Implementation Team. In conducting the audit, special attention should be given to the fact: That the project's
reports have been prepared in accordance with consistently applied International Accounting Standards and give
true and fair view of the financial situation of the project as at end of each fiscal year and of resources and
expenditures for the year ended on those dates.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 8
Environmental Assessment Recommendations
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
(Extracted from the full Project Environmental Impact Assessment)
In connection with planned works on the investment of modemisation of elements of infrastructure of the Port,
there is expected including to the actual structure of the managing with the environment existing in the Western
Pomerania Province. The following scheme shows additionally the part of the investor, it means the Szczecin
Maritime Office and the Szczecin-Swinouj9cie Port Authority JSC in controlling and managing with the
environment within which the preparing, construction works will be executed, as well as the operating the
investments handed over for using, which will appear as the effect of execution of the project.
The environment will be directly managed by:
* for the sea waterway existing within the area of internal sea water - the Manager of the Szczecin Maritime
Office with the help of own services (the blue colour in the scheme)
* for modernisation and development of the infrastructure within the port area - in the land territory the
Governor of Western Pomerania Province (the public administration - the beige and violet colours) via the
Szczecin-§winoujgcie Port Authority JSC.
The authorities establishing interference and management with the environment will be:
1. the local sanitary services (depending on competence and location)
2. the territorial self-governments (provincial, administrative districts or communal)
3. Inspection of the environment protection.
In cases of catastrophes or break-downs, rescue operations are organised and executed in accordance
with the orders of the Maritime Office, the Szczecin- Swinouj9cie Port Authority, or other institutions:
a. own services of the Maritime Office of Szczecin
b. own rescue services of the Szczecin- Swinoujgcie Port Authority (the fire brigade etc.)
c. The "Shipservice" specialist enterprise



Annex 12
Page 2 of 8
FIG. 4. MANAGING THE ENVIRONMENTAL MODERNISATION OF THE ELEMENTS OF PORT
INFRASTRUCTURE,
IN SZMi i    Ofi  in
Szczecin- wnjsi
/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~epr Authorithy, 
MARITIMCEF ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Maitm  Office in
Regional rescue services, Mariime Office's services,
Port Authority Services
Polish Salvage Company, "Ship Service" - (fighting oil spills)
Experts: Maritime Academy, Maritime Institute, Agricultural
Academy, Szczecin Universitv, other experts and consultants



Annex 12
Page3 of 8
There are governmental services in the area of planned modernisation of the Port infrastructure. These
services are engaged in protecting and managing of the environment and, also, inspecting (the yellow
colour). A final acceptance of the investment depends on these institutions, what depends on fulfilling of
requirements of evaluation of influence on the environment.
Essentially important for decisions about the investment territorial self-governments and depending on
them specialist services are marked with the grey colour. At last the existing services responsible for the
managing of the environment protection in the territory of modernisation of the elements of the
infrastructure, controlling either everyday or in the short time intervals the whole area subordinate to the
Maritime Office of Szczecin (SUM) and the Szczecin- Swinoujgcie Port Authority JSC - observational
permanent stations and controlling boats.
At last, acting under orders of the Investor and the Territorial Self-Governments researches and
controlling of the natural environment ashore and in water plus researches of atmosphere are executed.
These institutions responsible for above are marked in this diagram with the violet colour.
9.1. Management with the environment and acting in situations of the extraordinary
threat of the environment in the territory of the Szczecin- Swinoujscie Port Authority joint stock
company (ZPS-S S.A.)
There is the instruction no 5/98 related to executing of "The Plan of Acting in case of the
extraordinary threat in the territory of the Szczecin- Swinoujgcie Port Authority JSC". This Regulation
was issued basing on provisions of the Resolution about the protection and forming of the environment
(The Journal of Laws no 133 of 1997, item 885/ the uniform text/) and the Ordinance of the Council of
Ministers dated May 13& 1997 year about the method for fighting against sea pollution (Journal of Laws
no 53, item 337) binding in the territory of the Szczecin- Swinouj§cie Port Authority joint stock
company. The risk for appearing of the extraordinary threat in the territory of the Szczecin- Swinoujscie
Port Authority Joint Stock Company is possible in the following places:
* warehouses of dangerous cargoes,
* stocking yards of dangerous goods, including container yards, terminals,
* installations for stevedoring and storage of the liquid pitch and tar,
* standard berths,
* roads and railway sub grades,
* supply warehouses, handy warehouses of dangerous materials,
* fuel stations,
* repair shops,
* port water regions.
The extraordinary threat of the environment in the port territory can appear during:
* stevedoring and storage of cargoes,
* land and sea transportation.
A co-ordinator of activities leading to delimit effects of the extraordinary threat of the environment and
executing of the rescue action in the territory of the Szczecin- Swinoujscie Port Authority joint stock
company in Szczecin is Portowa Slu2ba Ratownicza (the Port Rescue Service). Technologies of



Annex 12
Page 4 of 8
stevedoring of cargoes ensure, admittedly, the safety of service of all cargoes, however the risk always
exists. Reloading of crude oil and fuels is not executed in the Szczecin- gwinouj§cie Port Authority Joint
Stock Company. Most of stevedored cargoes do not create danger for the extraordinary threat of the
environment.
9.2. Protective measures
The natural environment, which remains under the execution of modernisation of the Port infrastructure,
will be disturbed only in planned values meeting the following biosystems:
* land - mostly to antrophogenic (islands appeared in the effect of regulation of the port water system,
accumulated silts, slopes of excavated Canals)
* water - generally strongly polluted within the area of the Port of Szczecin and on the waterway and
the Szczecin Lagoon.
There are no protected species of plants or animals, both land and water, living in the area
covered with planned investments. Independently on this fact, planned interference into the natural
environment will be limited to the necessary minimum. Generally the investment works which interfere
into the environment will be based on protecting of land phytocenosis not designed for removing. The
water environment will be protected against degradation by eluates from excavated material stored on
land by the intensive controlling executed by the inspection of the environment protection or specialist
services hired by the Maritime Office or the Szczecin- Swinoujscie Port Authority JSC. Such behaviour
led against the most dangerous for the environment elements - eluates, excavated material or silts, will be
a key problem for managing with the environment.
9.3 Controlling of the environment
Prior to terrestrial works - especially volume works, in the area covered with the port
infrastructure of the Katowicki Peninsula and the Ostr6w Grabowski and the waterway, there is required
so called controlling of the "zero" status of the environment, because after starting of works on
modernisation of the port infrastructure, in the first stage there will be started works which can have a
negative effect on the status of the environment within the Port area in the range of polluting with heavy
metals and PCB. The local controlling fulfilled by the Inspection of the Environment Protection in
Szczecin refers to only several points situated in the Odra River within the area of city of Szczecin and in
the Szczecin Lagoon.
After the Investors' order the status of lithosphere and water is to be controlled by independent,
specialist hydrochemical, hydrologic and eco-toxicology of the Szczecin Agricultural College (the table
12). For the true controlling the environment of modernisation of
the Port of Szczecin- Swinoujgcie infrastructure, it is also necessary controlling permanently the port
water in the sore points of the Regalica River and Pamica, in the Brook of the Odra River, the waterway
in the Szczecin Lagoon, the Piastowski and Mieleniski Canals and in the §wina River. Frequency of
controlling of the status of the water environment has to be minimum 6 times per hydrologic year and at
least 4 times in the year of the land environment. Additional, detail works related to the range of
controlling of the environment, directly related to the modemisation of the Port infrastructure, will be in
details identified on the stage of the project. Requirements of the natural environment in both land and
water biosystems have to be taken into consideration in the stage:
* working on the detail concept of the project
* preparing of the project with the recommendations related to influence of modemisation of the
elements of the Port infrastructure on the environment taken into account
* executing of the investment



Annex 12
Page 5 of 8
exploitation of the modernized elements of the Port infrastructure.
Table 12
THE SHEET OF MANAGING WITH THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT IN THE AREA OF
MODERNISATION OF THE ELEMENTS OF THE PORT INFRASTRUCTURE DURING
EXECUTING WORKS AND EXPLOITATION
Run.  Specification                         Biosystem        Executors of        Estimated cost
No                                                          the environment       (per year in PLN)
controlling
CONTROLLING OF THE ENVI- RONME} Land                  THE AGRICULTURAL 100000
(abiotic and biotic parameters of the                 COLLEGE, INSPEC-
quality of the enviromnent related to                 TION OF THE
the chosen ecological indexes of                      ENVIRONMENT
producers, consumers and reducers)                    PROTECTION
Water           THE AGRICULTURAL 200000
COLLEGE, INSPEC-
TION OF THE
ENVIRONMENT
__________________________________                           PROTECTION
2     PROTECTIVE MEASURES - state           Land            THE Maritime Office   200000*
services, SUM and ZPS(E and specia-                   OF SZCZECIN (SUM),
list services organised for liquidate                 SPECIALISTIC SER-
effects of catastrophes break-downs,                  VICES
fires etc. in the Port and internal sea
water areas                          Water            AS ABOVE             200000*
3     STORAGE YARD OF EXCAVA-               Land in the     THE SZCZECIN          150000
TED MATERIAL AND DREDGED             area of the Port   COMMUNE, ZPS-¢E
WASTES - organisation and exploi-                     S.A.
tation of the new and existing storage
yards                                In the Szczecin    THE AGRICULTURAL 150000
Lagoon          COLLEGE, THE MA-
RINE OFFICE OF
SZCZECIN
TOTAL COST                                                                        1000000
Attention: 1. Mark * expresses the improvised assets possible for using only in case of a breakdown,
catastrophe, etc.
2. The Agricultural College in Szczecin - controlling of the environment through specialist
hydrochemical, ecological, protection of water, ecotoxicological laboratories led in the Sea Fish Culture
and the Nutrition Technology Departments.
9.4. Managing with excavated material during modernisation of the elements of the Port
infrastructure
Works on investments of modernisation of the elements of the Port infrastructure will be related to
dredging of material from the bottom with the help of different methods. The data presented in the Table
no I show that most of the bottom material is contaminated with heavy metals - in both port basins and
the waterway. It imposes to the executor storage of the excavated material depending on the level of its
contamination (the Table 5), although it is predicted in the part of the project of the infrastructure of the
port areas in the area of the Katowicki Peninsula and the Ostr6w Grabowski, that most of the excavated



Annex 12
Page 6 of 8
material will be built in the area prepared under the infrastructure of both Katowicki Peninsula and the
Ostrow Grabowski.
Dredging works led on the Sea Waterway require, because of economic reasons usage of storage
yards within the area of the Szczecin Lagoon, not nearby the Port of Szczecin. There is the following
procedure related to the dredging works and storage of the excavated material:
a. executing a chemical indication of ground designed for dredging
b. on the basis of these researches the Maritime Office of Szczecin determines the storage yard on its
dumping areas. Clean excavated materials which did not exceed rules of contamination are stored on
ordinary yards; strongly contaminated lots will be guided onto isolated yards
c. final agreement for dredging of ground (creating the waste material in accordance with the current
Polish legislation) and its storage (dumping) is issued by the Provincial Office on the basis of the special
petition, to which the enclosure is the agreement of the Maritime Office from the item b for storing on
the dumping area.
The supervision during executing of works includes controlling of recommendations of Estimation of
influence onto the Environment, from which the protecting activities will result - this supervision is to be
executed by the Authors of this project, the Investor, and ex officio, by the Supervision of Building of the
Provincial Office.
Table 13
PREDICTED QUANTITIES OF CONTAMINATED EXCAVATED MATERIAL ARISEN IN THE
EFFECT OF EXECUTING OF WORKS IN THE AREA OF MODERNISATION OF THE ELEMENTS
OF THE PORT INFRASTRUCTURE
Level of contamination    % of the total        Volumes of plan-      Area in km2
of excavated material     planned excavation     ned excavation
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _in   m 3
Clean                            44.6                  564,636           2.62
Slightly contaminated            39.5                  500,070           2.32
Contaminated                     10.5                  132,930           0.62
Strongly contaminated             5.4                   68,364           0.32
TOTAL                           100.0                1,266,000           5.88
Expected costs of arranging of excavated material yards in accordance with the above table 13 and
creating of dumping areas for creating of overloading banks will equal to PLN 11 mil (the table 5z, 6z,
7z).
9.4.1. Problems with location of storage yard for excavated material
Decisions about storing of the material dredged during dredging works in the port and the
waterway, on the dumping areas are related to the land areas situated in the areas belonging to communal
self-governments are to be issued by the Maritime Office of Szczecin. However, taking into consideration
a fact of dividing the area (communes within areas on which modemisation works will be executed), the
self-governmental authorities, in accordance with the binding statute about waste materials, demand the
proper fees for storing the excavated material from the Maritime Office of Szczecin.



Annex 12
Page 7 of 8
Possibility for sinking of the excavated material may refer to areas situated in the zone of the sea
territorial water managed by the Maritime Office - however this operation creates problem (destroying
the bottom etc.). Excavated materials designed for sinking in the sea belong to sand material dredged out
from the northern waterway with the low level of chemical contamination.
While planning the new dumping areas and excavated material yards, their status is to be
determined. In the same time competence of particular authorities of self- governments and public
administration are determined in this range.
9.4.2. Managing with excavated materials within the areas of the Katowicki Peninsula and Ostrow
Grabowski
The ground dredged within the area of the Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski consists
of partly not contaminated, or slightly contaminated mineral materials and, in the certain extent,
contaminated mineral-organic materials. Mineral and mineral-organic materials will be used during
progressing of works for increasing the height of these areas and for building of berths. Organic materials
will be stored on nearby existing dumping areas.
It is necessary to execute during these works a controlling of contamination of dredged material with
heavy metals and chloride-organic compounds and researching of chemism of water and ecological
reactions of hydrobionts by the Department of the Sea Ecology and Environment Protection and the
Department of Toxicology of the Agriculture College of Szczecin.
Taking into consideration the volume of the ground to be moved, total quantity of tests cannot
be lower than 20, whereas quantity of tests of quality of water and reaction of hydrobionts not less than 6
times within a year on the chosen stands.
9.4.3. Managing with excavated material on the sea waterway.
Material excavated during works related to modemisation of the inland section (4.900 - 18.000
kin) of the Szczecin- Swinoujgcie waterway, not contaminated material with the contents of organic
material <5% will be used for repairing and strengthening of banks, whereas not used part will be stored
on the dumping area Karsib6r "D".
Similarly to the area of the infrastructure within the area of the Katowicki Peninsula and the Ostrow
Grabowski, an additional controlling of contamination of dredged material with heavy metals and
chloride-organic compounds plus researching of chemism of water plus ecological reactions of
hydrobionts by the Department of the Sea Ecology and Environment Protection and the Department of
Toxicology of the Agriculture College of Szczecin shall be executed.
Taking into account volume of the ground planned for moving, the quantity of tests should equal
to minimum 15, whereas quantity of tests of quality of water and hydrobionts reaction not less than 6
times per year on the chosen stands.
Presented methods of treating of excavated materials will not cause additional negative effects in
the environment.
9.5. Managing with excavated materials after concluding the moderniszng works
9.5.1. Managing with excavated materials within the area of the Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w
Grabowski



Annex 12
Page 8 of 8
There are limited places for storage of excavated materials for the current project. Within the area of the
Szczecin commune possibilities for storage of excavated materials on the existing dumping areas are
almost impossible.
That is why determining the new dumping areas in the future will be necessary, additionally in
places where storing of such materials will not have the influence on quality of the environment. These
areas should be prepared in a way making outlet of contamination to the surface water and into the
ground, for example by using of geo-membranes, impossible. Materials with big contents of
contamination will mostly consist of deposits and organic grounds should be separated from clean
materials and stored in controlled conditions on especially prepared and additionally protected places.
Costs of preparation of these areas shall be included into planned investment of the infrastructure
within the area of the Katowicki Peninsula and Ostr6w Grabowski. It increases cots of planned
investments, but will protect possibility for storing of deposits which will be dredged in the future with
keeping necessary depths in basins and port Canals of areas. Using of open, more distant dumping areas
existing within the area of the Szczecin- Swinoujscie Port complex can be taken into consideration, but
it requires increasing the distance of transporting of excavated material, what additionally increases
costs.
9.5.2. Managing with deposits on the sea waterway.
Possibilities for storing of dredged grounds on the Karsib6r "D" dumping area are far bigger than
within the area of the port of Szczecin. In the neighbourhood of the section of the sea waterway there are
also Karsib6r "A", "B", and "C" dumping areas, which can be used in case of necessity. Sandy, clean
deposits dredged in this area can be also used or stored without any limitations. Of course, storage can be
executed on non-protected, shown areas (the chart).
9.6. Controlling of deposits in the area of modernisation of the elements of the Port infrastructure
after concluding the investment
A decision about the method of using or storing of deposits should be given after researches of the
level of contamination of deposits with heavy metals and chloride-organic compounds and researching of
chemism of water and ecological reactions of hydrobionts by the Department of the Sea Ecology and
Environment Protection and the Department of Toxicology of the Agriculture College of Szczecin.
Depending on the place of dredging of material the quantity of tests can be extended of decreased. Each
time the quantity of tests will be determined by the contractor on the basis of the volume of dredged
material.
The method will depend on the depth of deposit and on the status and condition of hydrobionts and
quality parameters of water.



Annex 13
Page 1 of3
Establishment of a Containment Area for Dredged Materials
Aide Memoire
The World Bank
Szczecin Seaway and Port Modernization Project
May 8-9, 2000
A World Bank mission comprising Piotr Krzyzanowski, Environmental Specialist, carried out
preparation of the environmental component of the Szczecin Port Rehabilitation Project from May 8
to 9, 2000. The mission would like to express its sincere thanks to Mr. Andrzej Borowiec, Jaroslaw
Waszkiewicz, and the staff of the Ministry of Transport, the Maritime Economy and the Maritime
Office in Szczecin for their assistance and cooperation.
Main Findings of the Mission:
1.    According to the EA, sediments to be dredged during project execution from the Szczecin-
Swinoujscie seaway are relatively clean. The level of contamination does not require special
handling by Polish law or international regulations. It is expected that the material would be clean
enough to be used for land reclamation during the construction works.
2.    The port areas, however, occasionally have heavily contaminated sediments, which require
special containment procedures. The formal process of location the storing place for the
contaminated dragged materials has just been started and according to the Polish law will go through
several steps of review and approval from the local and regional authorities as well as public
involvement.
3.    The amendment to the Szczecin spatial plan was prepared, which takes into account the
proposed location of the landfill near Lake Dabie.
4.    It was agreed that the Maritime Office/MTME will sign an agreement with the Regional
inland water authorities (RZGW), Port Authority of Szczecin and Szczecin Municipality on the
establishment of the containment area for dredged materials. The draft agreement is attached.
5.    Because of the budgetary constraints, the Maritime Office is seeking Bank support in the
form of grant funds to prepare the necessary documentation for the design of the containment area.
The construction of the landfill will be financed under the Banks loan. It was agreed that the parties
to the above mentioned agreement will apply for the ISPA/Environment funds.
6.    Mr. Andrzej Borowiec agreed to act as a coordinator of the preparatory process until the full
documentation will be prepared and approved according to the Polish law and the World Bank
requirements.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
DRAFTAGREEMENT
Whereas there is a need to provide for conditions favorable for development of ports in Szczecin and
gwinoujgcie, Szczecin Shipyard and other economic entities that use maritime and inland waterways
leading to Szczecin and Swinoujgcie, under principles of sustainable development;
Whereas it is necessary to improve flood protection measures at the mouth of river Oder, which have
rapidly deteriorated due to gradual silting of Dabie Lake; taking into account a need to stop further
deterioration of the lake and ecological disasters from becoming imminent;
Aware of natural hazards, which might be induced by improper handling and disposal of
contaminated materials dredged from the bottom;
Considering that all dredging works, as well as handling and disposing of dredged materials, need to
conform to relevant local regulations as well as provisions of international conventions ratified by
Poland, and in particular provisions of the law on wastes, Helsinki and MARPOL Conventions;
Desiring to facilitate protection of the environment by means approximated with principles followed
by the EU Member States, which is considered a pre-condition for Poland to become a Member
State;
Now, the Parties to this Agreement, agreed to the following:
1. The Parties shall take joint measures to enable construction of containment area for materials
dredged from internal maritime waterways and inland waterways within the Szczecin water region.
2. The containment area shall enable safe disposal of dredged materials, including contaminated
materials, by means friendly to the environment.
3. The containment area shall serve all the Parties and be open to all that would wish to contain
dredged materials therein.
4. The containment area shall be operated on commercially sound bases. Charges imposed for use
of the area shall recover at least operating, maintenance costs as well as reclamation costs once the
area is closed. The Parties shall consider giving operation of the area to one of the Parties or other
economic subject, under concession. Procedure to transfer the area for operation and use shall be
agreed separately.
5. The Parties shall promptly take active actions to facilitate:
a) establishing location of the area in line with regional spatial management plan (initially the
location is proposed at Dabie lake, near Radolin peninsula),
b) mobilization of initial funds for preparatory measures, required documents and initial
construction; in particular the Parties shall apply to the European Union (ISPA - Environment), the
World Bank and other donors for assistance in financing preparatory and implementation studies.
6. Launching of the construction (including securing of financing sources) is expected to be
commissioned to consultants. Costs of such consulting services shall be borne by such Parties to this



Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
Agreement, which in future plan to make use of the containment area.
7. Split of costs relevant to construction launch, responsibilities of the Parties and detailed
principles of cooperation shall be agreed separately.
The Parties:
President of the Szczecin Municipality
Maritime Office in Szczecin
Regional Water Management Authority
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Sea Port Authority S.A.
Szczecin Shipyard Holding S.A.
"Dragmor" dredging company
Maritime Institute
Done in Szczecin, on ...... ....... 2000



Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
Project Monitoring Indicators
Performance Monitoring Indicators Maritime Office in Szczecin
L Canal Maintenance and Performance Indicators
Indicators                       Actual                       2004 Objective
Piastowski Canal Maintenance                 Bank
Costs                             Year    Protection    PLN       Year    Protection   Dredging
PLN
1995       684,300    81,500   2004
1996      1,181,800   264,700   2005
1997       761,500   193,700   2006
1998       500,100   383,600   2007
1999      1,409,400    -       2008
Total:    4,537,100   923,500  Total:
Ship Sailing Time through         21 min for ships with draft<6. Im    18.5    f  11 h
Piastowski Canal                  25 mi for ships with draft>6. Im       . mi or a shIpS
Shipyard and Oversized Ships      Year    Shipyard   Oversized
Traffic                                      Traffic    Ships
1996       20         23         Depend on Szczecin Port and
1997       22         21       Shipyard development and activity
1998       22         25
1999       20          14
2000        6          16
Statistics on Navigation Incidents on   Year  Number of Incidents
Piastowski Canal
1996             0
1997              1                        None
1998             0
1999             1
2000             2
Quantity of Dredged Materials                                    Not possible to be expected at a
dumped in new Containment Area               None                moment -  investigations needed
Ship Sailing Time through Piastowski Canal (11 km -16 km): for July-August 2000
Details for year 2000 relating to: January 1s'-June 30'h 2000.



Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
II. Progress of Construction Works
Year/Quarter       Stone rubbles             Dredging                Withdrawals
Amount                 Amount                   Amount
(Cubic meters)         (Cubic meters)              USD
2001
IV
III
IVI
2002 etc.
2003 etc.
Total:    I                                          _
Performance Monitoring Indicators - SSSA
Indicators                       A c t u a I                  Objective
1999              2000             2004
Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Seaport Authority
- Total Vessels Traffic (OOOs/yr.) of    11,528            11,000             12,000
which:
- Container Vessels                       51                 86                100
- Ro-Ro Vessels                         1,004             1,441              1,600
- Total Cargo Traffic (000 tons/yr.) of  19,523            20,100             18,835
which:
- Containers (TEUs)                    12,241             15,312            16,600
- Ro-Ro Traffic                         1,655              1,727             1,900
- Transit Traffic                       2,727             2,010              2,200
- Ship Service Time on the new         51.7 h/v           49.0 h/v          49.0 h/v
facilities
- Number of port operators                  16                 16                16
- Area leased to port operators   2,996,850 m2       2,996,850 m2       3,063,694 m2
(% of total available areas)           53.8 %)           (53.8 %)            55.0 %)



Annex 15
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
A. Project Budget (US$000)                                            455,735
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                           18 months
First Bank mission (identification)            01/06/1997            01/04/1999
Appraisal mission departure                    01/22/2000            01/22/2000
Negotiations                                    07/18/2000           07/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/28/2001
Prepared by: MTME/SSSA
Preparation assistance: Netherlands Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Marc Juhel                                Port Specialist
Graham Smith                              Transport Economist
Piotr Krzyzanowski                        Environmental Expert
Alain Ballereau                           Financial Analyst, Consultant
Els Hinderdael                            Procurement Analyst
Robert Kietlinski                         Operations Officer
Iwona Warzecha                            Financial Management Specialist
Damika Somasundaram                       Program Assistant



Annex 16
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plans
Included in the PAD
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Capacity Assessment, April 2000
Appraisal Mission Aide-Memoire, February 2000
C. Other
Environmental Impact Assessment, University of Szczecin, January 2000
Port Modernization Study Poland - Szczecin-Swinoujscie Maritime Region, Rotterdam Maritime
Group, 1997
Feasibility Study of Port Infrastructure on Katowice Peninsula, BIMOR, 1997-2000
Feasibility Study of Development of Port Infrastructure for Unitized and Conventional Cargo on
Grabowski Island, BIMOR, 1998-2000
Modemization of Mielenski and Piatkowski Canals in the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway,
BIMOR, 1999
*Including electronic files.



Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Republic of Poland
Operations Portfolio
As of April 20, 2000
Difference Between
Board                                               Last PSR                                                Expected and Actual
Date                                          Supervision Rating b/    Oricinal Amount in usS                Disbursements'
Millions
Fiscal  Active Projects                    Development Implementation   IBRD    IDA   Cancel.     Undisb.        Orig. Frmn Revd
Year                                        Obiectives    Progress
1991   P008576   HEAT SUPPLY RESTRUCT           S            S          340       0       25         1.85      139.35      0.52
1991   P008571   PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT           S            S          280       0    67.28        36.18      103.46    56.18
1992   P008587   HEALTH                         S            S          130       0        0        39.48       69.48    39.48
1992   P008590   HOUSING                        S            S          200       0       30         3.74      183.74      3.75
1993   P008599   ROADS                         HS            S          150       0        0         1.19        1.19         0
1995   P008614   KATOWICE HEAT SUPPLY           S            S           45       0        0         11.9        11.9    -0.43
1996   P008595   BIELSKO-BIALA WATER           HS           HS          21.5      0        0         8.59        8.72         0
1996   P008604   POWER TRANSMISSION             S            S          160       0        0        78.09       86.18         0
1997   P036061   PORT ACCESS & MGMT.            S            S           67       0        0        38.42        9.84         0
1998   P053796   FLOOD EMERGENCY                S            U          200       0        0       118.35      100.27     -6.45
1998   P035082   MUNICIPAL FINANCE              U            U           22       0        0        18.67       16.08         0
1998   P008593   ROADS II                       S            S          300       0        0       233.97       58.65         0
1999   P057957   HARD COAL SECAL                S            S          300       0        0        207.8      230.51         0
1999   P008616   WHOLESALE MKT. I              HS           HS          15.9      0        0         0.11        -1.09        0
1999   P055988   WHOLESALE MKT. II              S            S         11.12      0        0         0.47       -4.56         0
2000   P037339   GEOTHERMAL AND                                         38.2      0         0       35.05           0         0
ENVIRONMENT
(PODHALE)
2000   P058202   RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                       120      0         0      113.71           0         0
2000   P050660   RURAL ENV. PROTECTION          S            S           2.5      0         0        2.23         0.39        0



Annex 18
Poland at a glance                                                                 9/22199
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   middle- 
Poband       Asia  income        Development diamond'
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                         38.7       473       588                  Ufe expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    3,900      2,190     4,860
GNP (Atlas method. US$b ilhons)                       150.9      1,039     2.862
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                          01         0.1       1.4
Labor force fX)                                         0.8        0.6       2.0      GNP           .                 Gross
per                   ,        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaIlale 159248)                                    capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of popilahon below national poVerty line)     24
Urban population (% of total Populaion)                  e         6          77
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73         69        70
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                 10         23        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                ..                                    Access to safe water
Access to safe water f% of POpulation)                   ..                   79
Illiteracy f% of population age 15+)                      0          4        11
Grossprimary enrollment (% of school-age popoulalion)    96        100       108           -Poland
Male                                                   9?        101        ..               Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                 96        99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS bitons)                               ..       ..      147.9     157.5
Gross domestic investrnent/GDP                                    24 7      27.0                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                         -       25.7      20.7
Gross domestc savngsq/GDP                                 -       204       18.7
Gross nat6onal sav,ngs/GDP                                        20.4      22.6
Current account balance/GOP                     .2.9                        -4.4            .                      Ivte
Interest payments/GDP                           ..       ..        0.9       11      Domesic ns
Total debt/GOP                                   .        ..      27.0      30.5      Savngs
Total debt serviceexports                       7. ..              79
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..        .       242.
Present value of debtexports                    1.        .       107
Indebtedness
1977-87  19898       1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                    ..      3.6      6.8        4.8       5,2                Poland
GNP oer capita                        ..       3.5      B.7        5.3       s.0                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and seruces           .      13.5     12.2        9.2       8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           30
Agriculture                                     ..       ..        5.6        ..
Industry                                        ..       ..       37.5               20
Manufacturing                                                   22.5                 o 1                              _
Ser'aces                                         .        ..      56.9        ..      a09
Private consumption                              .        ..      63.5        ..     1       93   94   35   96   37    8
General government consumption                  ..       ..       16.1        G.                      D       ----GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..       30.0
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%l
(average annual growth)o
Agriculture                                     ..    -1.0         0.6              30
Industry                                        .       4.4       10.8              2 20.
Manufacturing
Services                                                                             10
Private consumption                             ..      4.2        6.9       4.2       _     _    _         _ ,
General government consumpbon                   ..      2.6        3.5        ..    0
Gross domestic investment                       ..      8.9       20.8      14.1            93   94   95   95   97   9i
Imports of goods and services                   ..    18.8        21.4      17.9                  Exports       e  imports
Gross national product                          ..      3.7        6.8       5.4
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
0 d ii  A   .4 MM.X   f C  X, S 0S^,                                !"



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30667
Thi6 nap aC6 prosd by
-he Map Deeign Unit cf The
'- -.WetdBank.The baonda,iar
color, den-inotions and
ony othr ioF-ntien  heAn
a thi  np da 'a. i.p -n
f 7 S \ - ~~~~~~Trzebiat6w\
SZCZEINWNOUJSCE SEAWY AD (
PORT MODERNIZATIONAPOEC                                                                     
\~~~~~~Sio i                                                                      Gryfice/
s z~~~F 
X  '  <'tz s J; Al a /%0   Trzebi <_D
X    i   i  t    -  >\i  >-~  (2gGo eni6w  1   z c
.4>,wolk F \. For~~~~F. detail |,1\   
\v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hc, I __,t>
?   5   110   1 5   20  25       p                                            ,    ,                 ~      -        yRc
KILOMETERS                             M      HG  A   \t'A S                                               /
POLAND:   SEEb                                                              -                  *J
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY AND                                                5          -i;Se    _LITHUANIA S
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT                                                                         fED1           RN. 
PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENT OF MARITIME ACCESSES                                                     jsc" e                     BEL._-5
MA   >ein                       BEAU
PROJECT COMPONENTS:                     MAJOR HIGHWAYS                                *             WARSAW 0 
PROJECT COMPONENTS-MAIEN ROADS                                      GERMvANY                                      --
BANKS PROTECTION                 =    OTHE ROADS                                     1           POLAND
BREAKWATER REHABILITATION             RAILROADS                                  .
- - - - CHANNEL AXLE                      0    SELECTED TOWNS                         '      CZECH                            UKRAINE
®    PROVINCE (WOJEWODZTWO) CAPITAL          \    REPUBLIC
-   -  ~ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                   SLOA
,_              REPUBLIC*. -L_
NOVEMBE






POLAND
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE
SEAWAY AND PORT
MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PORT OF SZCZECIN
PROJECT COMPONENTS:
pig                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KATOWICE PEN
OSTROW GRABOWSKI
A,'-  WORKS IMPLEMENTED UNDER THE
PORT ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
RL / :EGA U                |   CZ ECH t  UKPROJECr
: >BRIDGE   -ROADS
-----RAILROADS
GENERAL CARGO)
GRABOWSKI                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UQUID BULK AREA
DRY BULK AREA
This ra   a  pnooodbyth.Map Design.UnitofTh.WorldBank.
shon  on this nnp do nt imopl  on he part of The word Book
G,a p,nyjdgeten  ton ikeega stae fm oy termoy, o-ofy
ndennt-rccepton-  f-soh booodoies.
GERMANY ~ ~ ~ ~~ITUAI
GERMANY        POLAND
0  500    1000    150C0                                                                                                                             UKAN
I   I    I   I                                                                                                        CZECH ~ 
METERS                                                                                                   \ REPUBUC               -V..
REPUBLI~.-.A,           .- 



