Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7039 POL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Szczecin-Swinoujscie
 
Seaway and Port Modernization Project) 
 
(Seaway Modernization) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 15, 2000 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7039 POL 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated   December 15, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
(1) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Ministry of Transport and 
Maritime Economy (MTME) of the Borrower, and (2) Part B of the Project will be carried out by 
Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie, S.A., and to assist in the carrying out thereof, the 
Bank and Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie, S.A., have entered into a loan 
agreement (the Second Loan Agreement) of even date herewith whereby the Bank has agreed to 
provide Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie, S.A., with the guarantee of the Borrower, 
with a loan (the Second Loan) in the amount of EUR 11,700,000; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means category (1), set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan for the Project, satisfactory to 
the Bank, describing the environmental mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the 
Project, incorporated in the Environmental Assessment for the Project, satisfactory to the Bank, 
dated January 20, 2000; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“PIT” means the Project Implementation Team established within the Maritime 
Office in Szczecin and supervised by MTME; 
 
(d) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
 
(e) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty nine million three hundred 
thousand Euro (EUR 29,300,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
currency conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
two hundred ninety three thousand Euro (EUR 293,000). The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-
hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to 
accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not 
including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment and other charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the Principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provision of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to 
the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be 
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project through MTME with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, financial, environmental and 
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower, acting through MTME, shall: 
(i) maintain the PIT with staff, facilities and other resources satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank; (ii) assign to the PIT, under appropriate terms of reference, the technical responsibility for 
implementation of Part A of the Project and for supervision of the progress thereof; and (iii) 
Page  5
-
4
-
cooperate with Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie S.A. for the purpose of Project 
implementation. 
 
(c)  
The Borrower, acting through MTME, shall cause PIT: (i) to carry out Part A of 
the Project in accordance with an annual implementation plan, to be prepared in consultation with 
the Bank by December 31 in each year, setting forth the activities to be carried out under Part A 
of the Project during the year in question, together with the funding requirements and the 
procurement plan related thereto; (ii) to prepare and to furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on 
progress in the carrying out of Part A of the Project; and (iii) to take all measures necessary to 
ensure that all activities under Part A of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the 
Environmental Management Plan. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works 
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of Part A of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
Page  6
-
5
-
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, with the last report to be 
furnished not later than six (6) months after the closing date, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each 
of which: 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part A of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for Part A of the Project for 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of Part A of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Foreign Assistance Funds Department 
 
ul. Swietokrzyska 12 
 
00-916 Warszawa 
 
Republic of Poland 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
    Facsimile: 
 
MINF 
    825592 
minf 
pl 
or 
 
 
48 22 826 66 70 
 
Poland 
   814386 
minf 
pl 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
    Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
  48423 
(MCI) 
or 
  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
By /s/ 
 
Jaroslaw 
Bauc 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
EUR)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
26,560,000 
50% 
 
(2) 
Fee 
293,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of  
 
this Agreement 
 
(3) Unallocated 
 
2,447,000
TOTAL 29,300,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Euro a separate special deposit account, in the 
National Bank of Poland on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into said Special 
Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of EUR 2,800,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount of EUR 1,400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed EUR 
5,600,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to 
or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
Annex B 
to
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-
month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the 
Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of EUR 4,300,000. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the project are to: (a) promote Poland’s maritime trade; (b) accelerate 
the development of Szczecin port; and (c) assist in adapting Polish maritime transport practices to 
European Union standards, through: (i) improving the navigational safety on the seaway 
connecting the Szczecin-Swinoujscie port with the Baltic Sea; (ii) strengthening the functions of 
Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie S.A.; and (iii) preparing and upgrading the basic 
infrastructure required by port operators to develop new operational facilities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower under the First Loan Agreement, the Borrower under the Second Loan Agreement and 
the Bank may agree upon from time to time the achieve such objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway
(1) 
Rebuilding intermediate breakwaters; (2) strengthening banks of parts of the 
Seaway’s canals; (3) establishing a new containment area for contaminated dredged materials; 
and (4) providing technical assistance to define and implement environmentally sound dredging 
methods. 
 
Part B
:
Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie
(1) 
Construction of new berthing facilities on the Ostrow Grabowski and Katowicki 
Peninsula; (2) land leveling and preparation for future cargo handling and storage operations in 
the above locations; (3) improving road and rail access to investment areas; and (4) bank and 
slope protection along the banks not to be used for berthing purposes. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004. 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the percentage 
of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date (Installment 
Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment 
Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; and (b) the Installment Share for 
each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 5 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Payment Date
Installment Share 
 
(Expressed as a 
%)
On each August 15, and February 15  
 
Beginning August 15, 2006 through February 15, 2016 
 
5% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of 
such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on each 
Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by the 
Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said 
Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the 
sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) months prior to any Principal Payment Date 
shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment 
Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the 
date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after the 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to 
any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said Conversion 
by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Procurement of Works
Section A
:
General
Works shall be pro
cured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Schedule. 
 
Section B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Section C of this Schedule, works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to works to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section B. 
 
Prequalification
Bidders for works under Part A (1) and (2) of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
Section C
:
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
.
Section D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works to be procured pursuant to the procedures 
referred to in Sections B and C above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Section, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower acting through MTME shall: 
 
(a) 
(i) ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental 
Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner; and (ii) include adequate information on the 
carrying out of such measures in the progress reports referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(b) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Bank by September 30, 2002,  or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
World Bank User 
\\LEGNT01\LEGEC\BACKUP\POLAND\conform\LN7039.doc 
1/2/01 10:21 AM
 
