Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7040 POL
Loan Agreement
(Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project)
(Port Modernization)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ZARZAD MORSKIEGO PORTU SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE S.A.
Dated December 15, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7040 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ZARZAD MORSKIEGO PORTU 
SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE S.A. (Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority) (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Republic of Poland and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith, between the Republic of Poland (the Guarantor for purposes of 
this Loan Agreement) and the Bank, the Republic of Poland has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan;
(D)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Ministry of 
Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME) of the Republic of Poland, and to 
Page  2
assist in the carrying out thereof, the Republic of Poland and the Bank 
have entered into a loan agreement (the First Loan Agreement) of even 
date herewith whereby the Bank has agreed to provide the Republic of 
Poland with a loan (the First Loan) in the amount of EUR 29,300,000; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means category (1) set forth in the 
table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan for the 
Project, satisfactory to the Bank, describing the environmental 
mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for the Project, 
incorporated in the Environmental Assessment for the Project dated 
January 20, 2000, satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and
(e)
“PIT” means the Project Implementation Team established 
within the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to eleven million seven hundred thousand Euro (EUR 11,700,000) as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a currency 
conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of works required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any 
Page  3
premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one hundred seventeen thousand Euro (EUR 117,000). The 
Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07.  Interest and commitment and other charges shall be 
payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the Principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provision of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)  the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment 
of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
Page  4
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has 
requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, financial, environmental and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, until the completion of Part B of the 
Project: (i) maintain the PIT with staff, facilities and other resources 
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) assign to the PIT, under appropriate terms 
of reference, the technical responsibility for implementation of Part B 
of the Project and for supervision of the progress thereof; and (iii) 
cooperate with the Project Implementation Team of MTME for the purpose of  
Project implementation.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause the PIT: (i) to carry out Part B of 
the Project in accordance with annual implementation plan, to be prepared 
in consultation with the Bank by December 15 in each year, setting forth 
the activities to be implemented under Part B of the Project during the 
year in question, together with the funding requirements and the 
procurement plan related thereto; (ii) to prepare and to furnish to the 
Bank quarterly reports on the progress in carrying out Part B of the 
Project; and (iii) to take all measures necessary to ensure that all 
activities under Part B of the Project shall be carried out in full 
compliance with the Environmental Management Plan.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the works required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of Part B the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each such year, with the last report to be furnished 
not later than six (6) months after the closing date, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank 
has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, 
all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
Page  6
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds 
for Part B of the Project, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for Part B of the 
Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of 
Part B of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under Part B of 
the Project and expenditures under contracts financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall earn, for each of its fiscal years ending on December 31, 
an annual return of not less than 5% of the average current net value of 
the Borrower’s fixed assets in operation. 
(b)
Before December 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and 
satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the requirments 
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its competion. 
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal 
years covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its tariffs in order to meet such requirements. 
Page  7
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the 
Borrower’s cash flow before debt service for the 
fiscal 
year in question by one half of the sum of the 
current 
net value of the Borrower’s fixed assets in 
operation 
at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal 
year. 
(ii)
The term “cash flow before debt service” means total 
operating revenues less operating expenses.
(iii)
The term “operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
(iv)
The term “operating expenses” means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, excluding depreciation, interest and other 
charges on debt. 
(v)
Depreciation means, depreciation on a straight-line 
basis at a rate of not less than 4% per annum of the 
average current gross value of the Borrower’s fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the 
Bank.
(vi)
The average current gross value of the Borrower’s 
fixed 
assets in operation shall be calculated as one half 
of 
the sum of the gross value of the Borrower’s fixed 
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end 
of 
the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained 
methods valuation satisfactory to the Bank.  
(vii)
The term “current net value of the Borrower’s fixed 
assets in operation” means the gross value of the 
Borrower’s fixed assets in operation less the amount 
of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time 
in accordance with sound and consistently maintained 
methods of vaulation satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of the Borrower shows that the estimated net 
revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during the term of the debt 
to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the Borrower 
including the debt to be incurred. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the 
Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one year after 
the date 
on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
such debt or for modification of its terms of payment 
on the date of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; 
and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
date the 
agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered 
into. 
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues form all sources related to 
Page  8
operations and net non-operating income; and 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the 
difference between: 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues 
in (A) 
above. 
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the 
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking 
fund 
payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges 
on debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast 
prepared by the Borrower not later than twelve (12) 
months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, 
which both the Bank and the Borrower accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified the 
Borrower of its acceptability, provided 
that no event 
has occurred since such notification 
which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to 
have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or 
future operating results of the Borrower. 
(vii)
Whenever for the purpose of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, 
obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of 
such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt 
the ratio of debt to the sum of debt and equity shall be greater than 
0.50. 
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the 
Borrower 
maturing by its terms more than one (1) year 
after the 
date on which it is originally incurred. 
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms of 
payment, on the date, and to the extent, the amount 
of 
such debt has become outstanding pursuant to such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into 
but 
only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is 
outstanding.
Page  9
(iii)
The term “equity” means the sum of the total 
unimpaired 
paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves 
of the 
Borrower not allocated to cover specific 
liabilities. 
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such currency 
is, at 
the time of such valuation, obtained for the 
purposes 
of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of 
such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange 
acceptable to 
the Bank. 
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall:
(a)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice;
(b)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound engineering, administrative, financial, and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound engineering and financial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Chairman of the Board of the Borrower and the 
Member of the Board of the Borrower appointed as the Project coordinator 
for Part B of the Project are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie S.A.
Bytomska 7
Page  10
PL 70-603 
Szczecin
Republic of Poland
         Facsimile:
  0048-91 462 34 12
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
   Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or  202477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the City of Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of 
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
ZARZAD MORSKIEGO PORTU
   SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE S.A.
By /s/ Andrzej Montwill
  /s/  Leszek Bursiak
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
EUR)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  10,520,000
45% 
(2)
Fee
     117,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
Page  11
(3)
Premia for Interest
 0
Amount due under
Rate Caps and Interest
Section 2.09(d) of
Rate Collars
this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
   1,063,000
TOTAL
11,700,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the project are to: (a) promote Poland’s maritime 
trade; (b) accelerate the development of Szczecin port; and (c) assist in 
adapting Polish maritime transport practices to European Union standards, 
through: (i) improving the navigational safety on the seaway connecting 
the Szczecin-Swinoujscie port with the Baltic Sea; (ii) strengthening the 
functions of Zarzad Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie S.A.; and (iii) 
preparing and upgrading the basic infrastructure required by port 
operators to develop new operational facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower under the First Loan Agreement, the 
Borrower under the Second Loan Agreement and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time the achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway
(1)
Rebuilding intermediate breakwaters; (2) strengthening banks of 
parts of the Seaway’s canals; (3) establishing a new containment area for 
contaminated dredged materials; and (4) providing technical assistance to 
define and implement environmentally sound dredging methods.
Part B:
Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie
(1)
Construction of new berthing facilities on the Ostrow Grabowski and 
Katowicki Peninsula; (2) land leveling and preparation for future cargo 
handling and storage operations in the above locations; (3) improving 
road and rail access to investment areas; and (4) bank and slope 
protection along the banks not to be used for berthing purposes.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
Page  12
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 5 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Payment Date
Instalment Share
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 15 and December 15
  Beginning June 15, 2006 
  through December 15, 2015 
5%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two (2) months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Procurement of Works
Section A:
General
Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Schedule.
Section B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Section B.
Prequalification
Bidders for the works under Part B of the Project shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 
of the Guidelines.
Section C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works to be procured pursuant to 
the procedures referred to in Section B above, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Page  14
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
(i) ensure that all measures necessary for the carrying out 
of the Environmental Management Plan shall be taken in a timely manner; 
and (ii) include adequate information on the carrying out of such 
measures in the progress reports referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank by September 30, 2002,  or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
