                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR0000811




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IBRD-70390 IBRD-70400)

                                  ON TWO LOANS

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 29.3 MILLION
                        (US$27.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                          THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                              AND EUR 11.7 MILLION
                        (US$11.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

         ZARZAD MORSKIEGO PORTU SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE S.A.
            (THE SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAPORT AUTHORITY)

            WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                       FOR A

 SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY AND PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT

                                 December 30, 2008



Sustainable Development Department
South Central Europe and Baltics Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

    (Exchange Rate Effective November 6, 2008)

              Currency Unit = Zloty
                 1.00 = US$ 0.36
              US$ 1.00 = 2.77 Zlotys

                 FISCAL YEAR
             January 1 ­ December 31

      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


EBRD              European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB               European Investment Bank
EMP               Environment Management Plan
EU                European Union
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
GOP               Government of Poland
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IFAC              International Federation of Accountants
MIS               Management Information System
MTME              Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
MOS               Maritime Office Szczecin
PIT               Project Implementation Team
PKP               Polish State Railways
PMU               Project Management Unit
SCL               Single Currency Loan
SSSA              Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
TA                Technical Assistance
TEU               Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit
VAT               Value Added Tax
VTMS              Vessel Traffic Management System




          Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

         Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos

         Sector Manager: Motoo Konishi

     Project Team Leader: Michel Audige

        ICR Team Leader: Ross Pavis

                                    REPUBLIC OF POLAND
          Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project




                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................14
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................19
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............22
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................25
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................26
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................27
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................31
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................32
 MAP..............................................................................................................................33

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Country:                Poland                Project Name:          Seaway & Port
                                                                     Modernization Project
                                                                     IBRD-70390,IBRD-
Project ID:             P008615               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     70400
ICR Date:               12/30/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     GOVT. OF POL. &
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:              SZCZECIN PORT
                                                                     AUTHORITY
Original Total
                        USD 38.5M             Disbursed Amount:      USD 41.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Maritime Office of Szczecin, Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/06/1996    Effectiveness:        03/14/2001         03/14/2001
Appraisal:             01/24/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/12/2000    Mid-term Review:                         12/12/2002
                                     Closing:              06/30/2005         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                      Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Ports, waterways and shipping                                     100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary         Primary
Other financial and private sector development                    Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos              Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:            Motoo Konishi                       Eva Molnar
Project Team Leader:       Michel Audige                       Graham Smith
ICR Team Leader:           Ross S. Pavis
ICR Primary Author:        Ross S. Pavis
                           Michel Luc Donner



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective as written in the Results Framework is to facilitate
private sector involvement in port operations through the improvement of physical
facilities and better navigation safety.        In the main body of the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), the project's objective is written in the context of a two-phased (and
two-project) program which supports Poland's Port Sector Modernization Program as
described in 1995. The objective of the program was to promote Poland's trade by
developing an efficient administrative/managerial structure and improving physical
facilities in the main ports of Gdansk, Gdynia, and Szczecin-Swinoujscie.



                                                 ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)        Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Total traffic cargo in the port of Szczecin
Value          12.87 tons (PAD Annex       PAD projection                    Total traffic cargo
quantitative or                            for 2007, 16.5                    in 2008 16.9
Qualitative)   4)                          million tons                      million tons
Date achieved 11/11/2000                   06/30/2004                        06/30/2008
Comments       New berth facility on Grabowski Island is not yet operational. Expected in mid
(incl. %       2009, this should have a significant impact on traffic cargo (see Economic
achievement)   Analysis, Annex 3).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)    Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Improvement of physical facilities - Rehabilitation of the breakwater along the
               Szczecin-Swinoujscie seaway
Value
(quantitative  Highly degraded             Works completed                   Works completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                   09/30/2004                        09/30/2004

Comments       Breakwater completion satisfactory. However, contract covering breakwater also

(incl. %       covered embankment reinforcement; Govt claimed contractor had not met all

achievement)   technical specs and deficiency would limit future capacity. Dispute went to
               arbitration; Govt lost.
Indicator 2 :  Piastowski canal maintenance costs
Value
(quantitative  4.5 million PLZ over 5      No target set                     186,000 PLZ
or Qualitative)years

Date achieved 01/01/2001                   06/30/2004                        06/30/2006
Comments       Baseline derived from 1995-1999 data. Yearly amounts spent since then have
(incl. %       varied widely, though all have been much lower: 2002, 119,650 PLN; 2003,
achievement)   10,000 PLN; 2004, 206,431 PLN; 2005, 61,807 PLN.
Indicator 3 :  Ship sailing time through the canal

Value                                                                        Average 18 minutes

(quantitative  21 to 25 minutes            18 minutes                        for vessels with <

or Qualitative)                                                              than 6 meters draft;
                                                                             average 21 minutes



                                                iii

                                                                               for largest ships
Date achieved 01/01/2001                    06/30/2004                         05/08/2007
Comments        Some works outside of project scope relating to full rehabilitation of Canal are
(incl. %        not yet completed. New regulations which will further impact sailing time will
achievement)    not be introduced until final completion.
Indicator 4 :   Incidents in the canal

Value                                                                          2005: 0

(quantitative   1 every two years on        None                               2006: 2

or Qualitative) average                                                        2007: 0
                                                                               2008: 1
Date achieved 01/01/2001                    06/30/2004                         10/10/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Data is difficult to assess as baseline was very low and events are sometimes

achievement)    caused by other factors in addition to physical seaway conditions.

Indicator 5 :   Container traffic
Value
(quantitative   12,840 TEUs (PAD            16,000 by 2005                     47,976 TEUs
or Qualitative) Annex 4)

Date achieved 01/01/2001                    06/30/2004                         05/08/2008
Comments
(incl. %        New container facility is not yet operational so increases do not reflect impact of

achievement)    the Project.

Indicator 6 :   Ro Ro vessels
Value           1,727 million tons per
(quantitative   year (Ref. PAD Annex        1.9 million in 2004                2 million tons
or Qualitative) 14)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                    06/30/2004                         05/08/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Same comment as above.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Ship transit time on the facility
Value
(quantitative   49 hours                    45 hours                           New facility is not

or Qualitative)                                                                yet operational.

Date achieved 01/01/2001                    06/30/2004                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        #Transit time# is more accurately defined as turnaround time alongside the

achievement)    facility. Same comment as above.

Indicator 8 :   Area leased to port operators
Value
(quantitative   53.8% of total port area    55%                                52%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                    06/30/2004                         05/08/2007
Comments        Though the concession agreement has not yet been signed, the authors consider it
(incl. %        very likely it will be signed shortly. Once signed, the leased percentage will
achievement)    increase.




                                                 iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
 1    06/14/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
 2    12/19/2001        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.65
 3    06/28/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.87
 4    08/28/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.87
 5    12/19/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.24
 6    06/16/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                10.24
 7    12/22/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                20.04
 8    06/18/2004       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory               26.19
 9    10/28/2004       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory               29.62
10    04/01/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                29.62
11    06/03/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                29.62
12    03/22/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                29.62
13    12/22/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                33.51
14    05/16/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                36.61
15    01/09/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                41.09
16    05/30/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                41.42
17    11/25/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory         41.53



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                          v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
In 2000, Poland's maritime sector was still recovering from the impact of the economic
transition on ports and shipping, increased competition in global shipping and
shipbuilding, and significant changes in external trade orientations. Yet Poland's long
Baltic coastline ensured that maritime transport would continue to play an important role
in the Polish economy, even as its trading patterns changed radically toward EU and
other western markets. It offered an environment-friendly alternative to road and rail
transport for international cargo movements ­ if it could realize its potential by
improving reliability of services and could keep costs and prices low.

Maritime transport accounted for about 11 percent of total national expenditures on
transportation and its ports handled over 50 million tons per year. With four main ports
in Poland, Gda sk handled 41 percent of the total, Gdynia 15 percent, and Szczecin and
 winouj cie 37 percent. The nature and directions of Polish trade was evolving rapidly
from year to year. Investing in ports had been a risky business: international road
transport, railways and pipelines were competing for the same traffic as the Polish ports,
and there was strong competition among alternative routes for cargo between major hub
ports (Rotterdam, Hamburg) and eastern Baltic destinations.         In addition, new port
infrastructure such as breakwaters, channels, and land access, was costly.     That being
said, Szczecin, owing to its geographical location, had unique advantages. Szczecin was
the closest maritime gateway to the Berlin area and a large part of eastern Germany,
whereas the closest German port, Rostock, was 240 km away from the German capital.
A second consideration was the effort that was being made by the EU to promote short-
sea shipping as a means to alleviate land transport congestion. A first review of the
potential for Polish ports to benefit from such a move indicated Szczecin was well
positioned to receive traffic coming and going between Baltic countries and Western
Europe.

Opening up the ports sector to more private sector involvement in commercial operations
was also a major objective of a new Ports Law which took effect in August 1997, and the
newly established landlord port authorities had taken over from the previously existing
public port companies. In Szczecin, incorporation of the new Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Seaport Authority (SSSA) as the new port authority company fulfilling the requirements
of the Ports Law was completed by December 1999.            SSSA was in the process of
refining its organizational structure and consolidating its financial structure, including
establishing a corporate business plan as well as short and long-term budgetary forecasts.
Establishment of the new landlord port authorities was consistent with separating public
statutory and regulatory functions from commercial operations. In Szczccin-Swinoujscie,
an agreement had been reached between SSSA and the Ministry of State Treasury, its
main shareholder, on completing full divestiture of SSSA's remaining shares in the port
operating companies by 2003.




                                            1

The project was consistent with the main CAS objective of increasing private sector
participation in infrastructure, and supporting the development of new private sector
activities in the Szczecin port. It was also an important follow-on to the first Port Access
and Management Project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators    1
The project development objectives written in the Loan Agreements were to: (a)
promote Poland's maritime trade; (b) accelerate the development of Szczecin port; and
(c) assist in adapting Polish maritime transport practices to European Union standards,
through: (i) improving navigational safety on the seaway connecting the Szczecin-
Swinoujscie port with the Baltic Sea; (ii) strengthening the functions of Zarzad
Morskiego Portu Szczecin-Swinoujscie S.A.; and (iii) preparing and upgrading the basic
infrastructure required by port operators to develop new operational facilities.

The outcome indicators outlined in the Loan Agreement included the following:

For the Maritime Office Szczecin (MOS): (i) seaway maintenance costs; (ii) ship sailing
time through the seaway; (iii) shipyard and oversized ship traffic; (iv) collision statistics
in the seaway; and (v) quantity of dredged materials dumped in new containment area.

For the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (SSSA): (i) total vessel traffic; (ii) total
cargo traffic; (iii) ship service time on the new facilities; (iv) number of port operators;
and (v) area leased to port operators (% of total available areas).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification
N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority, the Municipality of Szczecin, and the
maritime operators and customers of port services were intended to be the primary
beneficiaries of the project. By extension, Polish shippers, importers and exporters stood
to benefit from improved nautical access conditions to the port and new infrastructure
facilities made available to commercial port operators. The project was also to provide
more jobs and income to the region, allowing a further reduction of poverty related to
unemployment. At the time, Szczecin was a city with 420,000 inhabitants, and the
average unemployment rate was 16 percent against the national average of 13 percent. In
addition, benefits in terms of more cost-effective port services, lower transit times and
increased efficiency of the sea/land interface in Szczecin were expected to reach the
national community as a whole, providing a sound commercial competitive framework
for transport cost savings to be transferred to the final customer.

1
  This project was comprised of two loans: US$27.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Poland
and US$11.0 million equivalent to the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority with the
Guarantee of the Republic of Poland.




                                              2

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project was comprised of two loans: the first to the Government of Poland which
funded components 1 and 2 below; the second to the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport
Authority (guaranteed by the Government), which funded components 3 and 4.

Component 1. Physical Modernization of Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway (US$54.8
million, total). Measures to improve the seaway configuration, including slope protection
in the Piastowski canal, which was in poor condition and in need of repair and upgrading;
rebuilding of intermediate breakwaters at the Southern entrance of the canal which were
dilapidated and did not protect passing ships from transverse currents; strengthening of
the banks of parts of the channel over a total length of 2,600 meters; and establishment of
a containment area for dredged materials in the vicinity of Szczecin.

Component 2. Maritime Office Technical Assistance and Training (US$0.6 million,
total). Provision of technical assistance and training to build capacity within the Maritime
Office for identifying and implementing environmentally sound dredging methods to
separate out potentially contaminated soils.

Component 3. Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority: Katowice Peninsula
(US$14.6 million, total). Included land preparation and construction of berthing facilities
to provide additional operational space to be leased out to private enterprises and
operators for cargo handling, storage and packaging facilities, mainly for industrial bulks.
Works included: (i) construction of new berthing facilities along the peninsula: 410 m for
sea-going vessels, and 80 m for river barges; (ii) bank/slope protection on 580 m along
the banks not to be used for berthing purposes; (iii) leveling and land preparation on
160,000 sqm.

Component 4. Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority: Grabowski Island (US$11.8
million, total). Included land preparation and construction of berthing facilities to provide
additional operational space to be leased out to private enterprises and operators for cargo
handling, storage and packaging facilities, mainly for general cargo (food products,
paper, steel products), and containers. Works included: (i) construction of new berthing
facilities on 232 m along the western side of the island; (ii) construction of a roll-on/roll-
off platform; (iii) bank/slope protection; (iv) dredging 400,000 m3; and (v) access road,
drainage.

1.6 Revised Components
NA




                                              3

1.7 Other significant changes
(a) Multiple re-biddings on major works contracts on Grabowski Island and Katowice
Peninsula delayed implementation such that market prices escalated and it was necessary
to reduce the scope of work. New berthing facilities on the Katowicki Peninsula were
dropped from the project. (See Section 2.2 for further details on this sequence of events.

(b) Because of a variety of legal and political issues, a new containment area for
contaminated dredged materials was never built.

(c) Originally intended to close on June 30, 2005, the Project was extended twice and
closed on June 30, 2008.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project was a direct follow-on to the Port Access and Management Project which
constituted the first phase of the Port Sector Modernization Program supported by the
Bank. The Bank had been deeply involved in modernizing port sectors in numerous
countries, and in particular, in helping to define and implement new institutional and
managerial framework, so the lessons learned were significant and included the
following:

·   Prior Lesson: The decision to run a port under the landlord principle has implications
    for land ownership, the regulatory environment for private operators, cost recovery
    policy, and distribution. Therefore, basic project choices must be made as early as
    possible in the project cycle.

    Mostly Applied. The team deliberately slowed the pace of preparation to ensure that
    the new Port Law was enacted and implemented and the new landlord port authorities
    were in place before critical design factors were set down. One area where this could
    have been improved was with regard to a binding agreement on the site selection for
    the containment facility.

·   Prior Lesson: There must be real autonomy of the landlord port authorities in
    management and administration matters.

    Applied: By structuring the project into two loans -- one to the Government and one
    to the Port (guaranteed by the Government) ­ SSSA had maximum autonomy.

·   Prior Lesson: There should be a separation between statutory and regulatory
    functions vested in the public port authority, and the commercial activities to be
    carried out by independent private operators.

    Applied: The project supported this principle by limiting the investments of SSSA to
    providing access and basic infrastructure, while all operational assets, including



                                             4

    handling equipment previously financed by the ports, would be left to be financed and
    operated by the private sector.

·   Prior Lesson: Another feature of reform of port authorities which seemed beneficial
    to managerial efficiency was their gradual move from the status of statutory company
    to the status of joint-stock company. The concept behind the three main Polish ports
    reflects this evolution by establishing a structure where, apart from the central
    Treasury, municipalities become important shareholders sitting on the management
    board of the port authorities. This is the case in the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port
    Authority, where the cities of Szczecin and Swinoujscie together hold 49% of the
    shares.

    Applied: Project design followed closely the institutional evolution supported during
    preparation of both the previous Port Access and Management Project and the
    present one, with direct lending to a new port authority preferred over an onlending
    arrangement from MTME. This strengthened empowerment of the new entity and
    underscored its financial autonomy.

2.2 Implementation

Key factors during implementation

The project benefited from the institutional evolution brought about by the previous Port
Access and Management Project. In particular, the previous implementation of the
landlord port management model provided a well sequenced conceptual and institutional
continuity between the two projects, which in turn, allowed a well structured approach to
the Port Modernization components. As noted above, the team incorporated lessons
learned, and in almost every respect the project was ready to go upon Effectiveness.

The construction of the Katowice Peninsula berths was not completed. Before the
major works could be undertaken, it was necessary to remove existing electrical and
sewerage networks, and this was responsible for some initial delay. However, far more
importantly, there were extensive procurement problems related to the works on
Grabowski Island and the Katowice Peninsula which caused delays of several years.
During the first tender for the major works contract, the lowest bids were about 40
percent higher than the estimated cost, and it was decided to re-bid. The second tendering
also failed when the winning contract submitted to the Bank for no objection did not
include a completion date. A review of this tendering by the Government raised a variety of
internal issues which resulted in changes in the Government's implementation team. During the
same period, other events, unrelated to the Project, resulted in the Supervisory Board of SSSA
being dismissed in 2004. After more delays there was another re-bid which was
successful. During the course of these bidding processes, prices for works had escalated
such that it was necessary to reduce the scope of works to proceed. It was agreed the
berths would not be built.




                                                5

Co-financing was leveraged from the European Regional Development Fund
(ERDF). In 2005 because of the implementation delays, the replacement of the Board
and other related issues, SSSA was ready to cancel the project. The Bank team, to its
credit, was able to work with the ERDF which eventually agreed to cover seventy-five
percent of the costs for the works on Grabowski Island. This was the first time ERDF
had given such a grant which was seen as an important innovation. SSSA agreed to
continue with the project and because of the additional funds, it was possible to cancel
equivalent funds from the World Bank Loan.2

Construction of a containment area for contaminated dredged material was not
built. Throughout the eight years of the project, there were continual discussions,
agreements, government meetings, and Bank attempts to resolve the issues surrounding
the location for the CDF. Part of the problem can be traced to discrepancies between the
Polish regulations ­ which underwent changes during the course of the project ­ and the
initial project design. This is not the only Bank project that has had this problem: the
Klaipeda Ports Project in Lithuania, which is about to close at the end of December,
2008, has had the same outcome.

Timing of the concession process. The construction of the Grabowski Island basic port
infrastructure was completed in February 2008. It would have been reasonably possible
for SSSA to successfully initiate and conduct the tendering process in early 2007 so that
the selection and mobilization of the concessionaire would have taken place quickly upon
completion of the works. In this way, the facility could have been operational as early as
mid-2008, as compared to mid-2009, as per the current most optimistic expectations. The
Bank has not taken part in the concession process, but has drawn the Client's attention
repeatedly to this problem. Overall, the Government could have benefitted from technical
assistance regarding PPP's, however, the project did not provide any funds for this. As
noted earlier, at the time of the writing of this ICR, though there has been a pre-
agreement, a final concession contract has not been signed by the Minister.

Contractor claim on the embankment rehabilitation works in Piastowski Canal.
Almost all of the implementation problems described in this section relate to the SSSA
side of the project. By and large, the activities and works carried out under the Maritime
Office Szczecin (MOS) were relatively on schedule and that part of the project was
largely completed in 2006, with one exception. The Government claimed that the works
done on the embankment rehabilitation were not completed to the specifications outlined
in the contract. Though the completed embankment is suitable for current conditions and
standards, according to their engineers, as traffic in the channel increases and larger ships
begin to pass through, it will be necessary to do additional work on the embankment to
make it suitable for the change in conditions. According to the contract, the embankment
should have met the standards for future capacity. The case went to arbitration and the
Government lost.

2
 Given the time element and the changes in administration at SSSA, it was no longer considered
a priority to use these additional funds for the activities that had been dropped earlier because of
the procurement delays.




                                                   6

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E, design, implementation and utilization were satisfactory. Project monitoring was
based on indicators confirmed during appraisal, and on the Project Implementation Plan
prepared by the Borrowers, and agreed during negotiations. The selected indicators are
standard for these types of projects. They were incorporated into the ISR and kept up to
date by the Government. M&E was carried out by the implementation agencies, SSSA
and the Maritime office. Generally, data was gathered from annual statistics, and by
contract supervision and site visits. Bank supervision missions took place at a minimum of
twice a year, and frequently more often.             A financial management specialist and
procurement officer also made regular supervisory visits.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. An important safeguard concern at the beginning of the project was the
disposal of contaminated dredging material. (The amount was small; only about five
percent of the total removed material contained contaminants). This was the reasoning
behind the decision to build the containment facility as part of the project. As seen
earlier, the facility was not built, and the likelihood is, it will not be3. This, however, is
not meant to imply that the handling of the dredged materials was unsafe during
implementation of the project. Materials were handled correctly and put into safe but
temporary facilities. A decision still needs to be taken as to where they will be sent.
Under the project, staff in the maritime office received training in new and safer dredging
methods.

Financial Management. When the project closed, financial management was rated as
satisfactory. All quarterly reports, financial statements and audits were completed on
schedule and were satisfactory.

Procurement. Though the procurement of works, goods and consulting services were
carried out according to World Bank procedures and guidelines, the many delays of the
tender involving the works on Grabowski Island and the Katowice Peninsula were
responsible for at least one extension of the project, and a reduction in the scope of
works. The fault for this can be attributed partly to external events and partly to those
responsible for the management of procurement activities at SSSA. The contract dispute
regarding the embankment construction that went to arbitration is less clear. According
to all Government experts and the World Bank team, the contractor was at fault, and the
Arbitration itself, which took place out of the country, was overtly biased.




3
 This could potentially raise issues related to EU compliance.




                                                 7

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
At the time of project closing (June 30, 2008), an agreement with the selected operator
(PCC) for the new facilities at the SSSA had not been signed4. However, though there
are currently one or two relatively minor issues to be ironed out, the ICR team is very
confident the agreement between PCC and the Government will be signed shortly and
PCC will begin the outfitting and preparation of the new quay by the end of 2008 or early
2009. It should be operational in the latter half of next year.

There are no other Bank funded port projects foreseen in Poland at this time.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives in the Project Appraisal Document, Loan Agreement and Implementation
Status and Results Report are written differently, but generally emphasize improvements
in the facilities, private sector involvement, safety, and promoting maritime trade. These
objectives were relevant at the inception of the project and remain so today.

The Seaway Modernization components were largely aimed at preserving the status quo,
in as much as they aimed at restoring, sustaining and protecting the physical capacity
levels enjoyed by the Szczecin port and shipbuilding industry in earlier days, and which
have gradually become eroded and endangered by a lack of maintenance.

The Port Modernization components were meant to materially assist SSSA to progress
towards the "landlord port" administration model (the model preferred by the World
Bank), by financing basic port infrastructures. This would, in turn, enable SSSA to offer
said port facilities for further operational public private partnerships.

In these respects, the components have contributed effectively to the original objectives.

However, some aspects of the objectives, beyond the project's control, have been diluted
with the passage of time, and have lost part of their relevance during the course of an
implementation period lengthened by two extensions. These include such areas as new
sources of competition around the Szczecin Port, and changes in the worldwide shipping
market. For a more detailed analysis of this issue, see paragraph 3.5 below.




4
 A "pre-agreement" has been signed but will not become effective until the final agreement is
signed by the Treasury Minister.




                                               8

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective 1. Promote economic growth in the Szczecin-Swinoujscie region through
improved maritime access

Mostly Achieved

Seaway modernization aimed at improving the navigation safety and protection of
maritime entry to the port of Szczecin:

(a) Partial rehabilitation of the slope protection does effectively contribute to stopping the
decay of the banks of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie canal, and provides sustainability by
significantly slowing down the bank erosion caused by the waves created by the transit of
vessels in the canal. The Maritime Office of Szczecin is considering recommending
additional rehabilitation works along the canal.

The completion of this component suffered from a major contractor claim which went to
arbitration and was not resolved in favor of the Borrower. MOS contended (and the Bank
team agreed) that the weakness of the material used by the contractor will preclude future
dredging of the canal below 10.5 m, whereas the initial design and intention was 12.5 m.
If this is the case, and considering the increasing size of the container vessels about to be
deployed in the Baltics, as described in 3.5 (c) (v), this weakness could become an
inhibiting factor to the future commercial success of the concession at Grabowski Island.

(b) The rehabilitation of the breakwaters at the southern entrance of the Piastowski Canal
does significantly enhance navigation safety by sheltering vessels from strong, irregular
cross-currents encountered at the junction of the Canal into the Zalew Szczecinski
lagoon.

(c) Establishing a containment area for dredged materials in the vicinity of Szczecin was
not completed and most likely will not be in the foreseeable future. The reasons for this
stemmed from interpretations of the Polish Environmental Legal framework for the
construction of Controlled Disposal Facilities for dredged materials. While this
subcomponent has limited direct bearing on the success of this overall objective, the
failure to carry it out, and the importance of environmental safeguards in Bank projects,
requires that it carry some weight for this rating as well as the rating of the project.

Objective 2: Facilitate private sector involvement in port operations in Szczecin

Partially Achieved

Two areas were to be prepared and equipped with basic port infrastructure to allow
private investors to develop new operational facilities.




                                               9

(a) Land preparation and construction of berthing facilities to provide additional
operational space and to be leased out to private enterprises and operators at Grabowski
Island.

Completed Outputs:

1. Construction of new berthing facilities on 232 m along the western side of the island
2. Leveling and land preparation on 160,000 sqm
3. Construction of a roll-on/roll-off ramp
4. Bank/slope protection
5. Dredging 400,000 m3
6. Access road, drainage

The above enabled SSSA to offer a reasonably attractive section of the port to the Private
Initiative for further development into a fully operational container and RoRo terminal
through a concession agreement.

The above works were physically completed in February 2008 and the handover to SSSA
took place in April 2008.

A first tender to find a private operator was declared inconclusive. The second attempt
succeeded to award the 30 years concession on the berth and area to "PCC", a Polish-
German private logistics and rail operator. A concession pre-agreement has been signed
by SSSA and PCC on 25 March 2008, with a blank start date. This is viewed by both
parties as an official document, which only requires a further endorsement by the
Ministry of Treasury to become firm and final. At the time of the ICR mission, it was
expected that said endorsement would be forthcoming no later than January 2009.

While there are still some diverging views between the conceding power and the
concessionaire as to the proper location and design of the gate, at the time of writing, it is
safe to say that the GI facility has finally found a dynamic private operator. The paving
works for the storage area will be conducted in a staggered manner, which would allow
for an operational start by mid-2009, with full completion by mid-2010. Various
scenarios are envisaged to deploy one or two STS gantry cranes that would allow better
handling of gearless container-vessels.

In this respect, the specific development objective has been achieved, albeit four years
behind schedule.

(b) Land preparation and construction of 2 berths at Katowice Peninsula

Planned Outputs

1. Construction of new berthing facilities along the peninsula: 410 m for sea-going
    vessels, and 80 m for river barges
2. Bank/slope protection on 580 m along the banks not to be used for berthing purposes



                                             10

3. Leveling and land preparation on 160,000 sqm.

Only items 2 (partially) and 3 have been carried out. The land is still in settlement phase.
Item 1 has been subject to a scope reduction and reallocation. SSSA still intends to build
the berths when other financing sources become available.

In its present state of achievement, and pending the construction of quays, the area cannot
be operationalized, and it is unlikely that private operators would show immediate
interest to enter into a leasing agreement for the facility in its present condition.

Overall the project development objectives were partially achieved.                      The
components that have been completed will be effective and contribute to the
fulfillment of the objectives; however, two major sub-components were not
completed, and the delays in overall project implementation might have inhibited
faster port development, private sector involvement, and the growth of maritime
trade.

3.3 Efficiency
See Economic Analysis, Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The components, as designed, adequately addressed the PDOs. However, three major
factors are responsible for a less than satisfactory rating.

(a) One of the two components of the Port Modernization objective, the Katowice
Peninsula port facility has not been completed, and is thus not ready for tendering to
private operators.

(b) The other component of the Port Modernization objective, the Grabowski Island
container terminal, while physically delivered, at the time of the writing of this ICR, has
not yet been full concessioned to a private operator, and as a consequence, is not likely to
be operational before June 2009. As a consequence, the concessionaire-to-be will enter
the market very late, and in an unfavorable market situation.

(c) The subcomponent "establishing containment areas for dredged materials in the
vicinity of Szczecin" has not been carried out, and will probably not be in the foreseeable
future.

In addition to the above, there is the matter of the arbitration settlement with the maritime
office which cost the Government substantial sums. Second, because the project had two
extensions and the works were completed several years late, it is possible opportunities
were missed in the development of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port. (See 3.5
(c) directly below.)




                                              11

Overall Impact

Maritime Office Szczecin (MOS)
The activities here were generally "defensive" in nature, that is, without these activities
being carried out, there could have been further degradation of maritime access to the
port and shipyards for certain categories of vessels. This, in turn, could have inhibited
seaborne trade in Szczecin and curtailed future growth, especially considering that the
size of merchant vessels in general is increasing. The impact here has been satisfactory
and the MOS is far better prepared to meet future growth.

Seaport Authority (SSSA)
The activities at SSSA were aimed at improving the Port Authority's capacity to attract
interest from the private sector for developing new operational facilities.           These
improvements have been carried out successfully and have attracted private sector
interest on Grabrowski Island. That being said, an earlier completion would have made it
more efficient. By completion we also mean to include the concessioning out of the
facility. It should be noted that this tendering process has provided SSSA with experience
and built capacity for conducting PPPs.         On Katowice Peninsula, factors described
elsewhere in this report have postponed any real impact for the time being.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
NA

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Technical assistance and training were provided to the Maritime Office to improve
capacity for carrying out environmentally sound dredging methods.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Competition in and around Szczecin port

Changing circumstances brought along by the passage of time have led to a new, largely
unforeseen configuration of the competitive aspect of the Grabowski Island Terminal:

(i) Swinoujscie container terminal
The small Swinoujscie container terminal "VGN Polska terminal Ltd" is to wind down its
activities and discontinue operations as GIT activities unfold

(ii) Concentration in Szczecin stevedoring
The future GIT concessionaire has also taken over the main stevedoring company in
Szczecin in January 2008, and is already operating most general cargo, unitized cargo and
non-specialized bulk piers in Szczecin




                                              12

(iii) Private container berth project 20 km north of Szczecin
A private chemical complex operating a private bulk pier in the nearby city of Police (20 km
downstream of Szczecin) is planning to build and operate a container berth in its existing
port installations.

(iv) Deep-sea "Outer Port" project
The Government is promoting and supporting a so-called "Outer Port" project in
Swinoujscie, with a natural water-depth of 14.5m. A LNG terminal will be developed by the
Government, and a deep-sea container terminal project will take the form of a BOT
concession. Either terminal would not be ready before 2014-15.

(v) Evolution of the size of container vessels deployed in the liner business
The most recent developments in the industry have been the ordering, construction and
gradual deployment since 2006 of vessels with 11,000+ Teus capacity. While it is unlikely
that such vessels would plough through the Baltic Sea in any foreseeable future, their arrival
on the market is freeing up comparatively smaller tonnage. The tendency is that shipping
lines are seeking employment for container ships of around 300m LOA on routes that
hitherto were served by much smaller tonnage.

The concessionaire-to-be, PCC, has indicated that they already have been approached by
potential clients (shipping lines) who showed interest in a 300m berth, rather than 232m as
today. This development is of such a nature as to put the Grabowski Island Terminal at a
competitive disadvantage in the medium-term.

(vi) Shipyards
One of the social benefits expected from the Seaway Modernization components was to
preserve Szczecin's shipyards' capacity to deliver new ships with the maximum size of what
can safely pass through the S-S canal. At the time of writing, the Polish shipyard industry
is facing serious financial difficulties, linked to the world-wide shipbuilding market
situation, but also to a bitter conflict with the EU about illegal subsidies. Sizeable
segments of the industry might be forced to discontinue the activity altogether. The
industry accounts for 8,500 jobs in Szczecin.

Very little of the above could have been foreseen at the time of project preparation. That
being said, because of the extended implementation period, it is possible that SSSA had
less of a role in the unfolding of events than it might have had, if it had become more
competitive earlier on.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

Seaway Modernization component: There is a risk that the Borrower will not make the
necessary provisions for the continuous monitoring and upkeep of the works performed.



                                            13

Port modernization component: Provided the concession agreement is signed as planned
and PCC takes over the facility and implements the paving and operationalisation of the GIT
within the announced time-frame, the GIT will have a solid private operator. The rising
competing projects described above will mostly not be completed for several years, and the
concessionaire will have a good chance to consolidate its operations and market share before
then.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)


5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality at entry was technically sound and there was ample preparation. The project
was part of a two-phased program and followed directly upon the successful Port Access
and Management Project. There was a comprehensive environmental assessment and
action plan; procurement and financial assessments were satisfactory and continuous
dialogue with the Government at the local and national level had created a strong
collaborative spirit and share objectives. The one area in which a case could be made for
an improved design would have been providing technical assistance to the Government
for concessioning. This activity, however, was slated for the latter half of the project and
it was not clear at the time whether this would be required or not.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision of this project was time intensive.        Missions visited the country more
frequently than was required. The team was flexible in trying to come up with new
solutions when problems arose. Of particular merit was their success in leveraging funds
from ERDF to pick up costs for works on Grabowski Island.              The team was not
responsible for delays and the non-completion of activities.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This was a long project with a long history of events which took a number of different
turns. Two sets of works were not carried out: the berths on Katowice Peninsula and the
containment area for contaminated dredge materials. In neither of these instances was
Bank performance a factor.




                                              14

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Two of the chief factors that affected overall project implementation were the
procurement delays on the works contracts on Grabowski Island and Katowice Peninsula,
and the failure to reach an agreement on the location of the containment facility. The
procurement delays led to the reduction in scope on the SSSA component, and the delays
­ combined with the lack of progress on the containment facility ­ were also responsible
for the two project extensions. The Government was at least partly responsible for the
procurement delays, and mostly responsible for the containment facility not being built.
This is not to say that the Government did not make a large effort to get the containment
facility completed. Many positive steps were taken; agreements, which at the time
appeared to be final, were reversed; and officials at many levels did their best. However,
this was a complex task which began during a period of changing legislation, and while
Poland was navigating its admission into the EU.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementing agency also bore responsibility for the procurement delays. For
example, the first winning proposal submitted to the Bank for no objection did not
include an implementation date. On the maritime side of the project, there should have
been closer supervision of the embankment works so that the weakness in the materials
(the subject of the arbitration) was detected earlier and the extended complaint process
and the eventual penalties could have been avoided.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project is rated moderately satisfactory because of the works that were not completed
and because at the time of the closing of the project, an agreement had still not been
signed with an operator for the new containment facility ­ this in a project where one of
the key objectives was to facilitate private sector involvement.

6. Lessons Learned

(a) If the Bank is going to finance the building of containment facilities for dredge
contaminants, it needs to ensure that there is a deep knowledge of a country's laws and
regulations vis a vis the Bank's own rules and guidelines. If at all possible, there should
be a binding agreement on the location of the facility prior to Board or Effectiveness.

(b) If the Bank is going to finance facilities which are intended for public-private-
partnerships, such as a container terminal, it should try and be certain that the capacity



                                              15

exists in the Government to carry it out. If the capacity does not exist, the Loan should
finance technical assistance for that purpose.

(c) When considering the extension of a project, others factors should be taken into
account in addition to the Project's activities, namely:
·   Changing external economic, politic, institutional, legal and social circumstances
    could end up diluting the relevance of the development objectives, or place them at
    cross-purposes with real life developments;
·   Turnover of key staff on the Borrower's side, including major stakeholders, can
    undermine the project's success, and lead to a loss of continuity;
·   There may be lost opportunities. For example, had the new terminal been
    commissioned only one year earlier, there could now be a healthy concessionaire
    firmly in place, having been functioning on a buoyant market for the most part of the
    year, and much better prepared to confront the current international trade crisis.

(d) Procurement delays are always a risk in a project; however, at some point there must
be some kind of an intervention ­ restructuring, cancelation, a new approach of some
kind -- to keep a tendering process from continuing year after year.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments provided by the Borrower rightly focus on several issues central to project
implementation. Lengthy procurement processes were a key factor affecting
implementation, especially with regard to the reduced scope of project activities. Some
of the procurement delays can be attributed to circumstances beyond the Project's
control, while others might have been resolved with greater emphasis on the tendering
process and internal coordination. That being said, the Borrower did achieve much,
given circumstances that underwent tremendous change during the period of
implementation. The ratings are more a factor of what was not achieved (the dredging
containment facility, the berths on Katowice Peninsula, and the delays in operationalizing
the facility on Grabowski Island) rather than on what was accomplished, which was
commendable.

(b) Cofinanciers
NA

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
NA




                                              16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                      Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                               Appraisal
                                                              millions)
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway
Rehabilitation5                               55.4                51.9                 93.6

Szczecin Port Modernization
                                              27.6                27.54                99.6
Project


             Total Project Costs              83.0                 79.4                95.6




These tables do not include the 12.56 million in funds which were granted by the European
Regional Development Fund which allowed for the Government to lower its contribution, and
which offset some of the funds canceled from the IBRD loan.



(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of     Estimate        Estimate     Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing      (USD            (USD         Appraisal
                                                        millions)       millions)
Borrower                                                   44.5            37.9           85.0
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                           38.5            41.5           1086
and Development
Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
                                                             --
Borrowing Country




5
 Includes containment area for contaminated sediment.

6
 Though some funds were canceled, the Government benefited from a favorable exchange rate.




                                                 17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outputs for Maritime/sea channel:

Sub-Component                              Output
Rebuild intermediate breakwaters           The eastern breakwater (666 meters) with
                                           the quay (260 meters)
                                           The western breakwater (602 meters)
                                           Navigation lights on breakwaters' heads (2)
                                           Bank lighting of breakwaters
Strengthen banks of parts of the Seaway's  Reconstruction of eastern bank protection
canals                                     (3.019 meters)
                                           Reconstruction of western bank protection
                                           (3.228 meters)
                                           Head light beacons
                                           Bank lighting
Establish a new containment area for       Not completed
contaminated dredged materials
Provide technical assistance to define and Staff in maritime office trained in current
implement environmentally sound dredging environmentally sound methods.
methods


Outputs for Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie

Sub-Component                              Output
Works on Ostrow Grabowski Island           Construction of new berthing facilities on
                                           232 m along the western side of the island.
                                           Leveling and land preparation on 160,000
                                           sqm
                                           Construction of a roll-on/roll-off ramp
                                           Bank/slope protection
                                           Dredging 400,000 m3
                                           Access road, drainage

Works on Katowice Peninsula,               Bank/slope protection on 580 m along the
                                           banks not to be used for berthing purposes
                                           Leveling and land preparation on 160,000
                                           sqm.




                                          18

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project

Components of the Project were evaluated individually, as follows:

A. Breakwater at Southern Entrance to Piastowski Canal and Slope Protection

1.      Value added by Szczecin Shipyard: Added value to the shipyard is not explicitly
captured as the current performance of the Shipyard has not been reported. At the
appraisal, the Project was envisaged to help avoid a 10-15% cut in production of the
largest vessels (35,000 DWT or larger), which would have otherwise cost the Shipyard
$6-9 million per year. However, the Government and the Bank have recognized that
various external economic conditions that are completely independent of the Project have
hindered such aspiration.

2.      Avoided recurrent maintenance of Canal: Without the Project, the annual average
expenditure on recurrent repairs of the Canal was estimated to drastically increase in the
future years. During 1995-1999, a total of 4.5 million PLN (i.e., 900,000 PLN or
$187,874 per year) was spent for recurrent repairs. Without the Project, the Maritime
Office would have expected an increase of up to $1.5 million per year spending on
recurrent repairs to prevent collapsing of the bank and the canal's profile, which would
have otherwise deteriorated further. After the Project, the annual repair cost was reduced
to 206,431 PLN ($48,834) in 2004, 61,807 PLN ($14,621) in 2005, and 186,000 PLN
($44,226) in 2006. Cost savings of future years are therefore estimated as the difference
between do-nothing costs ($1.5 million per year) and reduced costs due to the Project
(projected to be $70,540 per year).

3.      Transport cost savings through quicker transit of seaway:        The Project was
anticipated at appraisal to enable ships to pass through the Canal at higher speeds, and
therefore to reduce travel time. However, because of some uncompleted works outside
the scope of the Project, but still necessary for the canal to be fully rehabilitated, the
regulation on cruising speeds has not as yet been revised as initially anticipated--to 8.5
knots for loaded ships and 12 knots for ships in ballast, from the current limit of 7 knots.
In this analysis, it was assumed that the benefits from travel time savings will be realized
in 2010 and onward. The annual savings will be approximately $0.27 million in 2010,
accounting for 0.25 hrs saving per passage, 7,200 passages per year, and value of travel
time $150/hr. It will increase in the future years under an assumption that traffic through
the Canal will grow at the rate of an annual average of 3%.

4.      Reduced risk of collision and groundings: It was predicted that, without the
Project, about one serious collision with the bank or grounding per year will occur as the
number of ships using the Canal grows, whereas with the Project, the probability of a
serious accident becomes negligible. However, there is always uncertainty in measuring
future benefits from avoided collisions and groundings for the following reasons. First,
the base value is too low--one accident per year--to verify any future changes as
meaningful improvements. Second, such accidents are caused not only by the slope



                                             19

condition but also by a number of other factors, and thus, it is difficult to single out the
Project's impact on the reduction of collision and groundings. Despite these caveats, this
analysis used the best possible estimate given recent accident occurrences to capture
economic benefits of the Project. In particular, it was predicted that with the Project, one
accident will occur every three years from 2009 onward. Comparison was made against
the do-nothing case, under which there would be one accident per year according to the
computer simulation assessment conducted at appraisal.            Consistent with the PAD
analysis, $1 million was used as the cost involved in one accident.

5.      Table 1 shows comparisons between the initial and ICR estimations of each
benefit element. The economic return values (19% vs. 0.7%) suggest that the first
component of the Project significantly underperformed its anticipation. However, the
unrealized added-value to the Shipyard is the major reason for the low economic
efficiency of the Project, other values being relatively close to the initial estimation.

 Table 1. Annual benefits and economic return: comparison of initial and ICR estimates

                                          Annual benefits in million Euros
 Benefit category                          Initial estimation (PAD)   ICR estimation for 2010
 Value added through Szczecin Shipyard                 6.0+                    n/a
 Recurrent maintenance avoided                         1.2                       1.44
 Cargo transit cost savings                            0.4                       0.13
 Collisions and groundings avoided                     0.3                       0.67
 Total                                                 8.0+                      2.38
 Construction cost                                    43.6                     51.9
 Economic return                                      19%+                       0.7%



6.      Risk and sensitivity analysis: The sensitivity analysis was conducted for the
scenario where the future annual benefits are reduced by 35%.7 With future benefit
shortfall of 35%, the NPV of the Project decreases from $-24.2 to $-30.8 million; and the
IRR goes negative (-1.8%).



B. Port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie: Katowice Peninsula and Grabowski Island

7.      The most recent projection by the Government (2008) updated port traffic
forecasts in the revised economic evaluation (2004) also includes actual data for years
2005 through 2007. Major changes from the original forecasts are as follows:

        (a) Katowicki Peninsula: The 2008 data/forecast shows that the actual port traffic
        in 2006 and 2007 largely exceeds the 2004 forecast; in fact, there was almost nine
        times more general cargo served at the new port in 2007 than predicted (1.30 vs.


7 A cost overrun scenario is not relevant in this case as the construction is complete and
there will be no recurrent maintenance costs incurred in future years.



                                             20

       0.15 million tons). Based on the actual traffic, the 2008 forecast estimated that
       the traffic will stabilize at 1.3 million tons a year from 2017, which is 38 percent
       greater than the 2004 prediction (0.8 million tons at stabilization).

       (b) Grabowski Island: The 2004 forecast expected that the port traffic of this new
       development will be realized in 2007 and onward. However, as of November
       2008, it is not operational and thus no traffic has been generated or attracted.8
       The revised forecast in 2008 predicted that the traffic growth will begin in 2010.
       There is also a significant difference in the mix of cargo type between the two
       forecasts. The 2004 forecast estimated that the ratio of containerized cargo
       tonnage to general cargo tonnage will be 1.5-2 to 1, whereas the updated forecast
       estimated much higher concentration of containerized cargo, the same ratio to be
       45 to 1 in 2010 and increase further over time. This adjustment is a reflection of
       the global trend of fast growing containerization and the PCC strategy to
       concentrate containerized cargos on Grabowski Island.

8.     Transport cost savings: Economic benefits from transport cost savings were
estimated based on the realized demand (at Katowicki Peninsula) and revised demand
forecasts. The economic analysis at the Project appraisal estimated that average cost
savings will be $5 per ton for bulk cargoes and $2 per ton for containerized cargo.
Adopting those values, future benefits were quantified as below.

       (a) Katowicki Peninsula:       In 2007, the Katowicki Peninsula port remarkably
       outperformed the initial estimation (0.15 million tons), treating 1.4 million tons.
       It is foreseen that the future demand will stabilize at the current level, and the
       savings on transport cost stabilize at around $2.5 million a year.

       (b) Grabowski Island: It is projected that the Grabowski Island port will treat
       1.35 million tons of containerized cargo and 30,000 tons of general (bulk) cargo
       in 2010. The demand will gradually increase approximately at a rate of an annual
       average 3%: 2.3 million (containerized) and 40,000 (general) tons in 2020, and
       2.8 million and 49,000 tons in 2027. Accordingly, savings on transport cost will
       be $2.7 million in 2010, $4.5 million in 2020, and $5.6 million in 2027.

9.     Added value generated by the companies developing commercial activities:
Economic benefits from development of commercial activities are captured by the Port
Authority's revenues from land leases and vessel charges. The revenue collecting items
include land value added by the stevedoring companies, leases from depreciation, and
vessel charges. The total annual revenue is estimated to be $2.6 million in 2010, $3.7
million in 2020, and $4.3 million in 2027. These estimates are fairly close to the initial
estimate of $4 million per year.

10.    Risk and sensitivity analysis: The sensitivity analysis was carried out for three
scenarios including (i) cost overrun of 20%, (ii) benefit shortfall of 25%, and (iii)


8 New facility is expected to be operational in mid 2009.



                                              21

combination of (i) and (ii), consistent with the initial analysis. Table 2 summarizes
analysis results for each component and the total, with parallel comparison between the
initial analysis in the PAD and the ICR analysis. As the figures suggest, the Katowice
Peninsula port significantly outperformed the initial estimates (over two times), while the
Grabowski Island port underperformed, having suffered from the schedule delay (about
80%). Each component thus to some extent cancels the other, the aggregate value being
about 83% of the initial estimate.



               Table 2. Sensitivity analysis: comparison of initial and ICR estimates

IRR (%)                        Katowice Peninsula      Grabowski Island              Total
                                PAD           ICR       PAD           ICR        PAD      ICR
Base case                            44        101.7         22         17.7         33     27.5
(i) Cost overrun of 20%              37        101.7         19         17.5                27.3
(ii) Benefit shortfall of 25%        34         85.6         17         13.9                21.9
Combination of (i) and (ii)          28         85.6         14         13.8                21.8



C. Caveats and Conclusions

11.      Given the less than complete information that was provided, one caveat should be
noted: the Project's intervention on Katowice Peninsula was limited to improvements in
bank and slope protection, leveling and land preparation, and resurfacing of access roads;
it did not, as originally planned, support the construction of a new berth. Thus, the
upsurge in traffic cannot be fully attributed to the improvement of the Port. Rather, it is
highly likely that the first component of the Project, the improvement of the Seaway has
had spillover effect--easier access has caused more demand for the Port. Therefore, a
certain portion of economic benefits from the Port can be attributed to the improvements
of the Seaway. But, there is insufficient information to quantify it.

12.      The first component of the Project, Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway Modernization,
has not yielded the anticipated economic benefits to the country, mainly due to the
externality on the Shipyard production, which was beyond the Project's scope.
Nevertheless, the Project has satisfactorily achieved the other intended objectives by
significantly reducing maintenance costs and cargo transit costs.              Its impact on the
possibility of collisions and groundings is difficult to conclude, and future changes in this
area might benefit from further analysis.

13.      The port modernization component of the Project has satisfactorily achieved its
intended objectives by bringing in added values through transport cost savings and
development of commercial activities. In particular, it is noteworthy that the port has
treated and will treat a greater amount of cargo than expected. The analysis determined
that the port will have positive net present values, even under cost overrun and benefit
shortfall scenarios.

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


                                                22

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Marc Juhel                 Port Specialist                     INFTD Team Leader
Graham Smith               Transport Economist                 ECSIN Transport
Piotr Krzyzanowski         Environmental Expert                ECSIN Environment
Alain Ballereau            Financial Analyst, Consultant       ECSIN FMS
Els Hinderdael             Procurement Analyst                 ECSIN Procurement
Robert Kietlinski          Operations Officer                  ECSIN Operations
Iwona Warzecha             Financial Management Specialist     ECSIN FMS
Damika Somasundaram        Program Assistant                   ECSIN Project Support


Supervision/ICR
                                                                       Program Team
Michel Audige              Lead Transport Specialist           ECSSD
                                                                       Leader
Jacques Bure               Sr Highway Engineer                 ECSSD Team Leader
Ross Pavis                 Operations Officer                  ECSSD ICR Team Leader
Radoslaw Czapski           Operations Officer                  ECSSD Operations
Anca Cristina Dumitrescu   Sr Transport. Spec.                AFTTR Transport Spec
Piotr Krzyzanowski         Consultant                          ECSSD Consultant
Karina Mostipan            Sr Procurement Spec.                ECSPS Procurement
Iwona Warzecha             Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS FMS
Jung Eun Oh                Young Professional                  ECSSD Economic Analysis
Barbara Ziolkowska         Procurement Asst.                   ECCPL Procurement
Marie Laygo                Sr Program Assistant                ECSSD Project Support



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including9
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY94                                                                     2.82
  FY95                                                                     1.61
  FY96                                                                    21.42
  FY97                                                                    90.89
  FY98                                                                   191.47
  FY99                                                                    63.85
  FY00                                        42                         156.93
  FY01                                        14                          53.80

                          Total:              56                         582.79
Supervision/ICR


9Costs prior to SAP cannot be verified.



                                           23

FY00                     00.00
FY01                7    22.60
FY02               19    52.75
FY03               12    40.62
FY04                8    53.78
FY05               12    76.46
FY06               16    54.80
FY07                8    32.16
FY08               14    74.06

        Total:     96    407.23




                 24

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
NA




                                    25

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
NA




                                  26

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

      The Szczecin and Swinoujscie Seaports Authority's standpoint on the
Implementation Completion and Results Report for a Szczecin- Swinoujscie Seaway
         and Port Modernization Project co-financed by the World Bank



1. The Report by the World Bank's representatives was drafted regarding the
   investment implemented by Maritime Office Szczecin (MOS) and the two
   investments implemented by Szczecin and Swinoujscie Seaports Authority in
   Szczecin port, namely: "Katowicki Peninsula infrastructure construction" and
   "Construction of the port infrastructure for a container terminal on Ostrów
   Grabowski Island", both realized during the years 2006-2008. Hereafter, the
   Szczecin and Swinoujscie Seaports Authority's standpoint, strictly limited to the
   investments realized by this company on the Katowicki Peninsula and the Ostów
   Grabowski Island in Szczecin port, is presented.

2. With reference to the procurement process for the contractor of the works, one has to
  point out the following facts, which have not been fully described by the authors of
  the report on the completed project:

      ·  The first procurement procedure was completed by SSSA in February 2002 in
         accordance with the adopted time schedule. The report on evaluation of offers
         together with the recommendation of awarding the contract to the most
         favorable bidder was delivered to the World Bank. It has to be underlined that
         the cheapest offer exceeded the planned investment budget by over 40%.
         That fact had a material importance in relation to the taken up by SSSA in
         2001 and not previously included in the Company's strategic plan
         investments concerning the purchase, resulting from the right to first refusal,
         of the functioning ferry terminal in Swinoujscie ­ investment cost of 198 mln
         PLN and the necessity to urgently modernize the Górników quay in
         Swinoujscie Merchant Port ­ costs of 60 mln PLN. Proceeding with the
         above mentioned investments and the necessity to engage over 250 mln PLN,
         exceptionally diminished the Company's financial ability for the successive
         years, thus limiting its ability to realize new investment projects.
      ·  In February 2002 the World Bank communicated its opinion on the
         procurement of contractors for the contracts covered by the co-financing from
         the investment loan awarded to SSSA. The Bank's representatives pointed
         out some formal imperfections in the offers submitted by the cheapest
         contractor (in the opinion of SSSA, those imperfections did not disqualify the
         offer because the data missing in the supplement to the offer had been
         delivered by the contractor in an another place of the submitted offer
         documentation), thus recommending to award the contracts to the second
         cheapest contractor which in consequence resulted in the increase of the
         investment capital expenditure from 119 mln PLN (the cheapest offer) by




                                            27

  additional 5 mln PLN, thus exceeding the pre-investment budget assumptions
  by over 50%.
· In this economic situation SSSA had not been able to realize the investments
  and it had taken up steps towards nullification of the procurement process and
  in consequence towards repeating the procurement procedure, which finally
  was accepted by the Bank in October 2002.
· In accordance with the Bank's guidelines in relation to the public
  procurement it was not possible to repeat the procurement procedure for the
  same material scope of the initial investment tender. Due to the above, SSSA
  made respective corrections and redefined the scope of the projects by
  establishing defined priorities. In relation with the dynamic development of
  containerized cargo transshipment in Szczecin port and the limited capacity
  of the temporary container terminal situated at Czeskie quay and further
  perspectives of container traffic development, the Contract II "Construction
  of port infrastructure for the container terminal on Ostrów Grabowski Island"
  was considered a priority investment. Preparatory works related to
  construction of overloading embankment for the future road and rail were
  excluded. Because of the urgent character of the earthworks, those were
  contracted by SSSA itself in 2002 so to obtain time saving in realization of
  the contract. The original investment cycle scheduled the realization of the
  project in 3,5 years, whereas after the exclusion of the preparatory works and
  their realization with SSSA's own recourses the contract co-financed by the
  World Bank was realized in the period of 18 months. The material scope and
  the objective of the second of the planned investments on Katowickie
  Peninsula were considerably redefined. One resigned from construction of the
  planned Dabrowskie and Kujawskie ship posts as well as barge quay and it
  was defined that the main goal of the contract would be the improvement of
  access to the port territory via modernization of the main communication
  route for that transshipment area ­ C owa and W glowa streets with the
  combined length of over 1300m together with an additional parking lane for
  truck vehicles as well as preparation of the not yet activated port areas of
  over 8ha for yards and facilities of future berths that would be constructed in
  the second stage of the Katowickie Peninsula port infrastructure
  development. The current development strategy of the Company assumes
  realization of the investment's second stage during the consecutive years
  2010-2012.
· The second procurement procedure based on the revised material scope of the
  both contracts began in second half of 2003. In the meantime, in May 2004
  Poland gained membership with the European Union, thus opening new
  possibilities for financing of the Country's generally accessible transport
  infrastructure with the Union's structural funds. Taking advantage of that
  situation, SSSA submitted an application under the European Regional
  Development Fund scheme for co-financing of the project at Ostrów
  Grabowski, which in parallel was being filled with World Bank financing. In
  June 2004, the World Bank representatives came to Szczecin port with the
  intention to close the project and to discuss with the SSSA's representatives



                                   28

           procedures for repayment of the used loan (there was the advance fee as
           drawn from the loan account in the amount of 117.000 Euro to be repaid).
           The Company's Management presented the current situation of the project
           and turned to the Bank with a proposal to continue co-operation in co-
           financing the investment on Ostrów Grabowski with consideration of the new
           situation of SSSA after it had received an initial grant of European funds for
           the container terminal at Ostrów Grabowski in Szczecin.
       ·   Consultations that SSSA had conducted with the Ministry of Infrastructure,
           responsible for the use of the EU funds, and with the World Bank were
           concluded on 26th April 2005 by signing the agreement for co-financing of
           the investment "Construction of port infrastructure for container terminal at
           Ostrów Grabowski in Szczecin" with European Regional Development Fund
           and on 14th June 2005 by signing with the World Bank the Annex to the Loan
           Agreement confirming the fact of the Bank's co-financing the project
           together with the funds received from the EU. It needs to be pointed out that
           at that time that was a pioneering solution on national scale when one
           infrastructural investment had been simultaneously supported with European
           funds and with a long-term investment loan from the World Bank.
       ·   In the beginning of 2006, the joint action taken up by SSSA, the World's
           Bank and the Ministry of infrastructure finally resulted in the completion of
           the procurement procedure for the contractors. The both contracts were
           realized with a success respectively in 2007 and 2008.

3. In the light of the above mentioned facts, the long-lasting process of preparation for
   the investment and the procurement of the contractors ought to be considered as a
   positive element. Taking the decision to nullify the first procurement process, the
   decrease of the material scope of the investments and in consequence the use of the
   EU funds grant in the amount of over 53 mln PLN enabled the feasible matching of
   the financing system with the financial possibilities of SSSA and it protected the
   Company from potential loss of cash-flow and enabled allocation of the freed
   finances to the Company's other, urgent investment tasks. One has to underline that
   the investment financing model using the World Bank and the EU funds as worked
   out by SSSA was a pioneering solution on national scale. In the opinion of the World
   Bank's representatives, the solution worked out by SSSA consisting in the financial
   combination of World Bank's loan for 25% of the investment's value and EU funds
   for 75% of the investments value will allow that institution to design a new product
   which the Bank will offer in the region to its clients who manage to obtain funds
   from the EU and who seek an additional long-term source of financing in lieu of their
   own financial contribution. The gained experience shows that a through preparation
   of the project documentation and consideration of costs of realization of an
   investment prior to its commencement are important elements, so at the procurement
   stage the obtained price levels are not the decisive elements for a need to introduce
   corrections to material scope of a project and for renewal of a procurement, which
   requires additional time, or at the extreme to take a decision to resign from
   realization of the project due to unforeseen increase of investment costs.




                                           29

4. As relates to the realization of the goals of Port Modernization project, it has to be
   appreciated that that aspect needs to be considered on two levels, i.e. on the basic
   level by comparing the achieved results with the goals assumed at the project
   programming stage, but also by considering the goals that had been revised during
   the project's scope revision stage. The continuously changing business environment
   of the port's operation forced material changes in the project, without consideration
   of which the project certainly would not be realized at all. Taking the above into
   consideration, one has to accept that the project's goals as modified during its
   implementation, in the part realized by SSSA, were realized in 100%. New port
   infrastructure was constructed, new investment areas were activated, port access
   system was unblocked by modernization of basic communication routes, at `same
   time creating new possibilities of expansion and economic activity of private port
   operators who run transshipment business in Szczecin sea port.

5. Recapitulating the above, the experience in supervision and management of the
   investment process based on the guidelines generally binding in the World and
   FIDIC procedures as well as co-operation with an international financial institution
   such as World Bank, gained during the realization of the projects will in the nearest
   future be used by SSSA's investment divisions during realization of the next
   Szczecin and Swinoujscie ports' modernization and infrastructure expansion
   programs.




                                          30

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
NA




                                    31

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Project Concept Note (formerly "Initial Executive Project Summary"), 1996
  2. Project Appraisal Document, November 2000
  3. Legal Agreement between IBRD and Zarzad Morskeigo Portu Szczecin-
      Swinoujscie S.A., December 2000
  4. A legal expert analysis concerning the possibility of building a site designed for
      the deposit of dredged spoil in the area of Lake Dabie in the light of the Polish
      and International law, Jan Jerzmanski, June 2005
  5. Aide Memoires
  6. Country Assistance Strategy, April 1997
  7. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, August 1999
  8. Country Partnership Strategy, 2005 - 2007
  9. Implementation Status & Results Reports
  10. Environmental Assessment Report for modernization and development of
      infrastructure of sea water way (inland section) and port area of Katowicki
      Peninsula and Grabowski Island, Agriculture Academy in Szczecin, December
      1999
  11. Annual Audit Reports and other project financial statements
  12. Quarterly Project Management Reports




                                           32

                                                                                                                                           IBRD 30667

                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                  World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                  colors, denominations and

                                    B a l t i c               S e a                                                               any other information shown
                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                   Kolobrzeg      the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                  or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                  a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                                                                                                  boundaries.


                                                                                             Trzebiatów

                                                WOLIN
                                              NATIONAL
                                                 PARK


                                                   Miedzyzdroje
                 Swinoujscie
                                                                                            Gryfice

                                            Dargobadz                                                          E28
                                                      Wolin
                                                               Reclaw

                                                                                                                                          Swidwin
                                                                      E65
                                                                             S Z C Z E C I N

                             GERMANY POLAND                                                      Nowogard

                                             Trzebiez




                                                                             Goleniów
                                                     Police
           Pasewalk                                                                                                          Wegorzyno
                                              For detail,
                                            see IBRD 30668
                                                                                                     Chociwel
                                              SZCZECIN




                                          E28
                                                                                 Stargard
                                                                                                         10
                                                          Odra R.       3
0  5   10    15  20   25                                                                                                         Recz

      KILOMETERS



                                    POLAND                                                      SWEDEN

    SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY AND                                                      DENMARK          Baltic Sea          LITHUANIA

          PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT                                                                                   RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                         FED.
                                                                                                             Gdynia
  PHYSICAL IMPROVEMENT OF MARITIME ACCESSES                                                                         Gdansk
                                                                                             AREA    Swinoujscie
                                                                                               OF                                             BELARUS
                                                                                              MAP     Szczecin

                                                     MAJOR HIGHWAYS
     PROJECT COMPONENTS:                                                                                            WARSAW
                                                     MAIN ROADS                          GERMANY
      BANKS PROTECTION                                                                                            POLAND
                                                     OTHER ROADS
      BREAKWATER REHABILITATION
                                                     RAILROADS

     CHANNEL AXLE                                    SELECTED TOWNS                                                                           UKRAINE
                                                                                                    CZECH
                                                     PROVINCE (WOJEWODZTWO) CAPITAL                REPUBLIC
                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                      SLOVAK
                                                                                                                   REPUBLIC

                                                                                                                                         NOVEMBER 2000

