                                  Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                 Report No.: 54902




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT




                                  LITHUANIA

                         KLAIPEDA PORT PROJECT
                              (LOAN 7014-LT)


                                      AND


                                    POLAND


     SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY AND PORT MODERNIZATION
              PROJECT (LOANS 7039-POL AND 7040-POL)


                                  June 17,2010




Sector Evaluations (IEGSE)
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
LITHUANIA: Currency Unit =Lithuanian Litas (LTL)

1998                US$l .oo               LTL 4.00
1999                US$l .oo               LTL 4.00
2000                US$1 .oo               LTL 4.00
200 1               US$1 .oo               LTL 4.00
2002                US$1 .oo               LTL 3.68
2003                US$1 .oo               LTL 3.06
2004                US$l .oo               LTL 2.78
2005                US$1 .oo               LTL 2.78
2006                US$l .oo               LTL 2.78
2007                US$1 .oo               LTL 2.50
2008                US$l.OO                LTL 2.40
2009                US$l .oo               LTL 2.49

POLAND: Currency Unit = Zloty (PLN)

1998                US$l.OO                PLN 3.475
1999                US$1 .oo               PLN 3.967
2000                US$1 .oo               PLN 4.346
200 1               US$1 .oo               PLN 4.094
2002                US$1 .oo               PLN 4.080
2003                US$l .oo               PLN 3.889
2004                US$1 .oo               PLN 3.658
2005                US$l.OO                PLN 3.230
2006                US$1 .oo               PLN 3.100
2007                US$l.OO                PLN 2.770
2008                US$l.OO                PLN 2.410
2009                US$l .oo               PLN 3.120

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCEOM        Bureau Central des Etudes d'Outi-e-Mer
BLG          A German consultant engineering firm
CDF          Confined Disposal Facility
DB           Deutsche Bahn (German Railways)
DWT          Dead Weight Tons (standard measure of ship size)
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
ERDF         European Regional Development Fund
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
EU           European Union
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
ISR          Implementation Status and Results
KSSA         Klaipeda State Seaport Authority (Lithuania)
LPG              Liquified Petroleum Gas
LTL              Litas, Lithuanian currency
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MOS              Maritime Office Szczecin
m/s              meters per second (windspeed)
MSC              Mediterranean Shipping Company, container operator
NBF              Non-Bank Financed
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PCC-Rail         A Polish-German joint venture which bought out in 2008 Drobnica Port Szczecin, winners
                 of concession for Grabowski Island container terminal, and was itself bought out by DB
                 early in 2009.
PDO              Project Development Objective
PHRD             Policy and Human Resource Development
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
PLN              Zloty, Polish currency
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
Ro-RO            Roll-on roll-off, a method for loading vessels with vehicles using ramps that are lowered
                 on the quay.
SSSA             Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (Poland)
TEU              Twenty-ft. Equivalent Unit (standard unit for aggregating containers)
UAB              Lithuanian abbreviation for a commercial company
UNCITRAL         UN Commission on International Trade Law
VAT              Value Added Tax




Fiscal Year for Both Countries
Government Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 3 1




Director-General, Evaluation                               :   Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group                     :   Ms. Cheryl Gray
Manager, Sector Evaluations                                :   Ms. Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                               :   Mr. Peter Freeman
                                                              1




I                  IEGWB Mission: Improving development results through excellence in evaluation.

    About this Report
           The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
    first, to ensure the integrity of the Banks self-evaluation process and to verify that the Banks work is producing the
    expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
    dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
    the Banks lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
    that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
    which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments: and those that are likely to generate
    important lessons.
           To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
    documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
    and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
    in local offices as appropriate.
           Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
    internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
    relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review: the borrowers' comments are attached to
    the document that is sent to the Banks Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
    the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
      IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
 lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
      Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                                       ...
                                                                       111




Contents
Preface .................................................................................................................................   v
summary ...........................................................................................................................   v11
                                                                                                                                            ..
1. Introduction .....................................................................................................................   1
2 . Main Findings ................................................................................................................. 2
3 . Port Competitiveness ...................................................................................................... 3
4 . Development of the New Organizational Structures ...................................................... 4
5 . Environmental Improvement .......................................................................................... 7
6 . Conclusions and Lessons ................................................................................................            9
Appendix 1: Lithuania Klaipeda Port Project ................................................................... 15
Appendix 2: Basic Data Sheet - Lithuania-Klaipeda Port Project (Loan 7014-LT) ........ 27
Appendix 3: Poland - Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project
(Loans 7039-Pol And 7040-Pol) .......................................................................................                 29
Appendix 4: Basic Data Sheet-Poland: Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port
Modernization Project (Loan 7039-POL and 7040-POL) ................................................ 47
Appendix 5. Port Traffic ................................................................................................... 49
Map ...................................................................................................                               52
                                             V




Preface
        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared by the
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) for two seaport projects: the Klaipeda Port Project
(Loan 7014-LT) in Lithuania and the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port
Modernization Project (Loans 7039-POL and 7040-POL) in Poland. The International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan to the Klaipeda State Seaport
Authority (KSSA), with guarantee from the Government of Lithuania, was approved by
the Board of Directors on May 11,2000 in the amount of US$35.36 million. At appraisal
the total project cost was estimated to be US$56.9 million, with bilateral aid hoped to
contribute up to US$10 million and the balance, of at least US$l 1.5 million, to be
covered out of KSSA?s retained earnings. The final project cost was US$69.45 million,
of which the loan contributed US$35.36 million and KSSA almost all the balance. The
closing date on the Bank loan was extended from September 30,2004 to December 3 1,
2008.

        The Bank?s Board approved two loans for the Polish project on December 12,
2000: one in the amount of Euro 29.3 million (equivalent to US$27.5 million at the time)
to the Government of Poland for the work on the Seaway, and the other in the amount of
Euro 11.7 Million (US$ 11.Omillion at the time) to the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport
Authority (SSSA), with government guarantee, for the port modernization. At appraisal
the total cost of the combined project was estimated to be US$81.8 million, with US$27.9
to be contributed by the Government of Poland, US$15.4 million by the Port Authority
and US$38.5 by the two IBRD loans. The final project cost was US$81.2 million, of
which the two loans contributed US$41.5 million, increased over the original dollar value
of the commitment by the greater strength of the Euros when disbursed, which in addition
offset cancellations in 2006 of US$5.4 million equivalent of the loans. The contribution
required from the government was reduced by a grant equivalent to US$18.6 million that
became available for the project in 2005 from the European Regional Development Fund.
The closing date for the support provided by the Bank was extended from June 30,2005
to June 30,2008.

       The projects were selected for assessment together because they both addressed
countries transitioning from membership of the Soviet block to that of the European
Union. They also had similar content, combining substantial rehabilitation of publicly
owned marine structures with leadership by the new port authorities in attracting and
extending private initiative in provision of the services required within the port to meet
the needs of ships, cargo and passengers. They thus constituted a good test of the Bank?s
common recommendation to apply the formula of the landlord port authority for the
management of major commercial ports.

        IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project
Appraisal Documents (PADS), Implementation Completion and Results Reports (ICRs),
legal agreements, project files and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda
and working papers. Discussions were also held with Bank staff (current and retired) in
Washington, D.C. and Poland. An IEG field mission visited Vilnius and Klaipeda, and
Warsaw and Szczecin, in November 2009. It discussed both the project and the
                                           vi

effectiveness of Bank assistance with relevant officials, stakeholders and users of the
ports' services. The mission much appreciates the generous support and attention given
by the borrowers and all concerned parties in both countries as well as in Washington,
D.C.

        Following IEG practice, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government
officials and borrowing agencies for their review and comments, but no comments were
received.
                                             vii


Summary

        This PPAR assesses the development effectiveness of two similar port
development projects approved in 2000 and completed in 2008: the Klaipeda Port
Project (Loan 70 14-LT) in Lithuania and the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port
Modernization Project (Loans 7039-POL and 7040-POL) in Poland. In addition to
assessing the development effectiveness of each project, it conducts a comparative
analysis of factors affecting the latter.

        Both countries were in the process of developing new institutional structures and
policies, better adapted to a market economy than those inherited from the past.
Transport was an important area of reform because of the need to support substantial
increase and diversification of the countries' involvement in international trade.

         Both projects had similar content, combining substantial rehabilitation of major
marine infrastructures under public responsibility with support for leadership by the new
p o i authorities in attracting and extending private initiative in provision of the services
required within the port. Klaipeda State Seaport Authority (KSSA) had been created only
in the mid-1990s and Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (SSSA) only in 1999. The
projects thus constituted a good test of the Bank's approaches to port development,
emphasizing the concept of a landlord port authority and private-sector provision of most
or all of the services offered within the port.

        Project objectives combined a broad focus on strengthened economic
performance, in terms of port competitiveness and development of trade, with a
secondary objective stressing progress on a dimension of particular importance to the port
assisted. The main objective of the Lithuanian project was to strengthen the long-term
competitiveness of Klaipeda (the country's sole general-purpose port) in the Baltic
Region. The project's second objective was to improve environmental conditions of the
port area by preventing spills, improving waste reception facilities, and providing
necessary disposal facilities and continuous monitoring of environmental conditions in
the port. Besides a crucial redesign of the port entrance, the marine works included
significant dredging of the entrance way, to accommodate vessels twice the previous
maximum size.

        The main objective of the Polish project was to strengthen development of
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port (the principal port complex in the northwest, serving the
country's industrial heartland and several neighboring countries) and its contribution to
national maritime trade. The second objective was to support the development of the
new landlord port authority and expand private-sector involvement in the operation of the
port, as had occurred in countries already members of the EU. Funds were provided
under the loan to SSSA to extend infrastructure in new areas within the port that were
being leased to private companies to build the superstructures and offer service to ships.

      Contracting and execution of the large marine civil works, handled at Klaipeda by
KSSA, and at Szczecin by Maritime Office Szczecin (MOS), regional branch of the
                                             ...
                                            Vlll



responsible central ministry, proceeded smoothly and efficiently in both cases. But
progress on the joint public-private effort to develop new berths and lands within
Szczecin port ran into serious delays already in 2002, resulting mainly from differences
that proved irreconcilable between SSSA and the Bank concerning who was the lowest
evaluated bidder. With the continuing uncertainties, the interest of the private partners
drained away. The eventual resolution was to redesign the whole sub-project, without
advance commitment of future tenants as had been developed at the Bank's suggestion
for the original scheme.

        The revised works were finally contracted early in 2006, with financial assistance
not only from the Bank loan but also the EU's European Regional Development Fund,
following Poland's accession to the EU in 2004. Final costs of these works were more
than 50 percent above the over-optimistic appraisal estimates for the wider sub-project
earlier envisaged. The first major new private business to make use of these facilities, a
container handling operation now owned by Deutsche Bahn (German Railways), had its
concession confirmed in November 2009 and expects to have two rail-mounted gantry
cranes in operation by June 2010.

        Both lending operations included a small allocation for construction of a confined
disposal facility (CDF) to receive and safely store contaminated sediments that were
expected to be raised by some dredging operations. Extensive discussions took place in
both countries about the possible design and siting of such facilities (without excessive
urgency since prohibitions of dredging in severely contaminated areas were strictly
enforced). Tentative decisions were made more than once, only to be suspended a few
months later. These prolonged efforts are now pointing in both countries towards
adoption of the alternative of chemical treatment that would convert the contaminated
sludge into material that could be used (and probably sold) for building roads and
embankments. A plant that would be able to do this job is under construction near
Szczecin by a private company working with the Regional Water Management Authority.
Somewhat similar plans are under discussion at Klaipeda, but less advanced.

         The overall outcome of the Lithuanian project is rated moderately satisfactory and
that of the Polish project moderately unsatisfactory, with the shortfalls from fully
satisfactory due in each case to lags and uncertainties in securing full benefits expected.
In respect of purpose and design both projects remained substantially relevant to the
countries' evolving needs. Most importantly, they succeeded in helping those working in
the areas managed by the port authorities to adapt to even sharper declines (or less
growth) in many trades than had been foreseen at appraisal, and to develop alternatives.
Some of the most important new flows were long-distance (inter-continental) trade
benefiting substantially from the deeper drafts created at Klaipeda, increased
international ferry traffic there and at Swinoujscie, and much more rapid than expected
development of container traffic at Szczecin. The ports thus improved their
competitiveness and contribution to the development of trade, and these trends have laid
the bases for continued expansion along the new lines in coming years.

         But the extended implementation period for each project (to 2008) ended with
unresolved shortfalls in particular areas. In Klaipeda as of November 2009, there was
still no agreed or firmly budgeted plan for safe handling of contaminated sediments
                                             ix

raised by dredging, so that the dredging much needed in a few small highly contaminated
areas continued to be prohibited. At Szczecin-Swinoujscie, near-term benefits from the
big investments in seaway rehabilitation were very limited (due to final closure in mid-
2009 of Szczecin Shipyard as no longer viable, irrespective of the seaway), and few
benefits were flowing from the new areas developed in the port, due to delays in their
completion and leasing. There are good prospects that these problems will be overcome,
so risks to development outcome can be considered moderate, but the task of building an
appropriate regional role for Szczecin, adapting earlier experience to 2 1st century
possibilities, remains very large.

        Design, implementation and utilization of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
show striking contrasts, between the substantial performance at Klaipeda (Lithuania) and
negligible achievement at Szczecin-Swinoujscie (Poland). The contrasts appear to have
stemmed from differences in initial effort. Exemplary attention was given in Lithuania to
careful selection of indicators to correspond well with project objectives, to establishment
of progressive targets, to verification of possibilities of timely reporting, and specific
training of borrower staff for the job. The less useful set of indicators for the Polish
project and much less reliable, up-to-date reporting may well have contributed to the
insufficient attention that the Bank-country dialogue gave over the years to port strategy
and broader project impacts as opposed to implementation of specific items under the
loans.

        Bank performance is rated satisfactory for the Klaipeda project (Lithuania), but
moderately unsatisfactory for the Szczecin-Swinoujscie project (Poland). Ample
attention was given to the preparation of these projects over several years. Their design
took account of the Bank's previous experience with ports and responded well to country
needs. Appraisal was thorough, including its coverage of environmental aspects.
Supervision was normally adequate and tried to be flexible and responsive in the search
for solutions on difficult issues - such as contaminated dredge spoil - and in adjusting to
changes. However, in Szczecin-Swinoujsciethe Bank lacked a clear response to the
accumulating risks: economic viability of the heavy seaway investment mainly dependent
on a single enterprise, the Shipyard, completely outside the port authority's
responsibility; government rejection of agreements reached in appraisal for inclusion of
technical assistance in the loan; and transit traffic prospects which turned out to need
more effort on trade facilitation and on competition policies and practices to enable them
to be realized.

        Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory in both countries. In the
case of the Lithuania project, physical execution and economic management by KSSA
were exemplary. The offsetting feature was inability of the government more broadly to
bring about sufficient compromise to deliver on facilities that would enable safe dredging
of contaminated soils. In the case of the Polish project, MOS proved a generally
competent implementing agency. But SSSA had a particularly difficult job, and one of
the sacrifices made was timeliness in development work. It was very young, and
government at higher levels denied it the technical assistance that it needed for handling
the large development responsibilities it undertook, in addition to regular running of the
two ports in the complex.
                                     X



Three lessons emerge from this review:

Even in countries with comparatively high levels o education, technical
                                                    f
assistance can be vitalfor efficient application o unfamiliar techniques or
                                                  f
procedures. The Bank needs to make careful judgments on specific needs, defend
those judgments strongly with higher-level country officials, and match
concessions on any of them with appropriate compensatory actions to substitute
for the assistance or reduce the need.

The Bank needs to be cautious in pushing specific technical solutions, o which
                                                                          f
it has not had its own direct experience, to resolve particular problems. Greater
progress, at lower cost, would probably have been made in finding appropriate
solutions to the problem of contaminated materials that are disturbed by dredging
operations had the Bank concentrated on strengthening the borrowers'
monitoring, control and research measures rather than pressing for action on loan
components to finance establishment of confined disposal facilities.

A vital task o ports is to ascertain the changing hinterland, or geographic
              f
market area, that they can expect to serve, and to identify and help resolve
policy or infrastructure obstacles to the development o new trades. It should
                                                       f
now be normal to have an economist experienced in trade and transport issues
participate in a supervision mission to a port borrower at least once every twelve
or eighteen months.




                                                             Vinod Thomas
                                                            Director-General
                                                               Evaluation
                                              1


1. Introduction
1.1     Poland's active relationship with the World Bank began in the late 1980s, and
Lithuania became an important borrower in the early 1990s. Transport drew particular
attention in both countries, because of their role in carrying trade between Russia and
western Europe, major needs for modernization of their transport systems, and the
priority they attached to integration into the European Union. The Lithuanian
government expressed interest in a project to improve the channel entrance to its only
major seaport, at Klaipeda, in 1994. Focused discussion with the Bank of the measures
needed to modernize Poland's ports began in 1992. The Bank worked closely with the
Polish government on the design of reforms that would decentralize port management
into the hands of landlord port authorities. These public-sector authorities would directly
provide only the basic infrastructure, leasing it out to private-sector operators to build the
superstructure and offer services to vessels. The reform legislation was enacted late in
1996, and in the same year the Bank approved a first loan to the country's port sector,
helping to finance urgently needed improvements in access to the main ports, especially
by road.

 1.2    Main efforts to prepare the two projects covered in this PPAR began in 1997. The
centerpiece of both projects was major marine engineering works to rehabilitate and
improve existing structures - breakwaters at the entrance to Klaipeda Port in Lithuania,
and at the junction between canal and lagoon along the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway in
Poland, along with embankments on the canal - and, at Klaipeda, to deepen the port by
two meters. Such works required detailed engineering study, generally involving use of
simulation models, to perfect their design. An additional element at the Polish port was
inclusion of work to develop basic infrastructure in two areas within the port precincts
that had not previously been developed. Planning for this infrastructure was carried out
jointly with the private parties who had indicated interest to take up leases in these areas
and add the superstructures.

1.3     Both projects were placed in the Bank's environmental category "A," reflecting
the possibility of significant environmental side-effects, and Environmental Impact
Assessments and Environmental Management Plans were prepared by specialized,
independent consultants. The plans stressed the need for careful assessment and
monitoring of contaminated sediments in areas to be dredged. Funds were included in
the loans to cover the costs of construction of Confined Disposal Facilities (CDFs) where
contaminated sludge would be stored in isolation until it had lost its toxicity.

1.4    Contracting and execution of the large marine civil works, handled at Klaipeda by
the Seaport Authority (KSSA) and at Szczecin by Maritime Office Szczecin (MOS),
regional office of the responsible central ministry, proceeded smoothly and efficiently.
The principal items originally envisaged were in fact completed before the end of 2003.

1.5     Development of the new lands at the port of Szczecin, however, ran into a series
of delays, of which the most serious resulted from irreconcilable disagreement between
the port authority and the Bank as to who was the lowest evaluated bidder. The port
authority decided to go back to the drawing board. It took advantage of the opportunity
afforded to reshape the proposed works to fit better with updated traffic prospects,
                                             2


indicating more containers, and to mobilize additional funds on a grant basis from the
EU. With these changes, however, the works were contracted only in early 2006, and
without advance lease agreements for private occupancy of the sites created. The basic
infrastructure was completed only in mid-2008, three years behind original plans, and the
first major private lessee (for container operations) is expected to have its first gantry
cranes in operation by mid-20 10. In Lithuania, the Seaport Authority carried out some
further rounds of dredging after 2003, to extend the deeper drafts.

1.6     As regards the Confined Disposal Facilities (CDFs) that had been envisaged for
both countries, considerable discussion took place among the various national and local
authorities involved in each country, and the Bank pressed repeatedly for decision, but
neither country was able to resolve the matter before the loans ultimately closed in 2008.

2. Main Findings
2.1     A first finding from comparison of the experience of these two countries may
relate in part to their novelty to the Bank at the time the loans were made. A significant
factor in the better development effectiveness of the project in Lithuania was the
extensive effort devoted over several years to perfecting and testing of the marine works'
design and finally to systematic selection and training of the staff members of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) set up at the port. Bilateral grants from Japan and the
Netherlands covered extensive work by international engineering firms, and Lithuanian
and foreign environmental specialists. The seaport authority and its PIU were also
assisted in their supervision of the contractors, especially those initially employed, by
international engineering firms. Much less such assistance appears to have been applied
in Poland, except in supervision of the seaway rehabilitation works. A specially trained
small PIU at the Seaport Authority would probably have greatly facilitated progress on
the Bank-supported land development and leasing in Poland.

2.2     Development of a strong marketing capacity, preferably backed by some
economic research capacity, in a landlord port authority, combined with maintenance of
close relations with private investors and logistics specialists, are more important to good
choice of port investments than most one-time traffic forecasts, however thorough and
well-prepared. The traffic forecasts underlying both projects proved quite rapidly wrong.
They were undercut in the case of Lithuania by unexpected and sharp change of Russian
policies regarding metal exports (a major trade at the time). They suffered in the case of
Poland from the sharper than expected fall of traditional bulk flows as a result of changes
in other sectors of the Polish economy, notably coal and steel. The key factor to limit the
economic and financial impact of such changes was the agility shown by the port
authority (especially its marketing staff) in combination with private stevedores, traders
and other modes (often, notably, the railways), in competing for alternative traffics that
could be developed in the country or attracted from competing routes and transport
modes.

2.3    When an environmental issue arises that has not previously been seriously
confronted by a country, the best course of action for the Bank is normally to require and
support strong monitoring, control and research efforts to help the country manage and
measure the problem and reach its own consensus on the long-term remedial measures
                                                      3


best suited to its circumstances. If, instead, the Bank offers financial support for a
particular solution, it risks getting unconstructively involved in the democratic and
bureaucratic processes that countries have to go through to pick their own preferred
approach. Lending for creation of a Confined Disposal Facility (CDF) for contaminated
dredge spoil in these two cases, before the countries had started their national procedures
to secure approval for such a plant, caused the expenditure of significant time and effort
that probably contributed little to solving the problem.

3. Port Competitiveness
3.1     The main objective of the Bank's lending in support of both ports was to
strengthen their competitiveness and enhance the growth of trade and of the regions they
served. Competitiveness is not easy to measure directly, and trade possibilities are
affected by many factors. But a crucial objective is clearly to try to ensure that ports are
not the effective constraint to growth, whether by shortage of capacity (which can be due
to inadequacy of protection against extreme weather conditions as well as sheer shortage
of berths and warehouses) or inefficiency in provision of service.

3.2     In the relatively competitive markets of the Baltic Sea area, some indication of a
port's competitiveness can be obtained from looking at changes over time in its traffic
compared with those of neighbors. Appendix 5 provides tables for the two ports which
compare actual traffic with forecasts and, for the more general categories, with figures
available for actual traffic of neighboring ports.

3.3     While there are fluctuations from year to year, Klaipeda has certainly maintained
its share of total traffic handled by all the main multi-purpose ports of the eastern Baltic'
and generally shown a rising trend towards a 15% share. Szczecin-Swinoujscie shows a
falling share of total traffic handled by southern Baltic ports (Poland and Germany),
reaching about 17-18% in the last few years, but it may have maintained its share of
general cargo traffic (possibilities of comparison are limited by differences among ports
in the ways they report the increasing amounts of traffic that are travelling by ferry or in
Ro-Ro operations).

3.4      Another factor to be taken into account in assessing a port's competitiveness is
the reliability and sustainability of its traffic flows. This is especially important when
major changes are taking place in regional trade patterns, as has been occurring in the
case of Polish coal, with large reductions in domestic production and some replacement
by imports of foreign coal. It may be unusually important too in the case of transit trades
that pass through the port between origins and destinations in foreign countries. Such
trades may be determined by less predictable or transparent considerations, more
mercantilist and not necessarily economic. Klaipeda suffered sharp reductions of Russian
transit traffic in the first half of the decade due to abrupt changes in Russian government
policies. The port of Szczecin-Swinoujscie offers evidence that the much weaker than
expected development of its transit traffic to and from Germany is due to policy

1
 Primorsk in Russia and Butinge in Lithuania have been omitted as facilities are limited to oil or oil
products.
                                              4


inconsistencies, for instance on taxes, between Germany and Poland and to Deutsche
Bahn freight pricing practices that discriminate to favor German ports.
3.5     The competitiveness question that is most relevant to assessment of the
development effectiveness of an investment is often the microeconomic one dealing with
attribution: was the improvement brought about by the investment material to attracting
a particular traffic ? There is fairly high probability that the deeper drafts that became
available at berths close to the entrance of Klaipeda, as well as the longer breakwaters'
wave protection and consequent lengthening of effective working time, were material to
attracting the Belarus fertilizer export traffic when it was particularly needed to
compensate for falling Russian traffic. In part this was because some of the fertilizer
exports went to Asia, for which the long distance made it more than usually important to
benefit from the lower freight rates offered by deep-draft vessels.

3.6     Analysis of this sort has not been done systematically even for Klaipeda traffics.
Allowance needs also to be made for other motivating attractions to a port, including
expectations of its suitability for a trader's future planned operations, effectiveness of the
public-private interface and cooperation in the port, and ability of different parties in the
country quickly to put together an integrated offer for handling standard movements of
large volumes.

3.7     It is fairly clear that Klaipeda's public physical investments and public-private
collaborations (including privately invested superstructure) have been important in
attractinghetaining significant parts of its traffic, and have thus contributed to its
competitiveness. At Szczecin-Swinoujscie the seaway upgrade has probably so far been
much less important than the strengthened public-private collaboration in attracting the
new traffics, and some of those traffics (such as increased container flows) have come
even before well-adapted infrastructure has been available. But the knowledge that the
seaway is capable of taking ships with 9 meter draft, and that Szczecin port infrastructure
is improving, has probably still been important in attracting some parties to begin using it
and to develop manufacturing plants in the area.

4. Development of the New Organizational Structures
4.1     Although only two of the stevedoring companies (handling loading and unloading
of ships) at Klaipeda in 1999 were private enterprises, the process of privatization of the
various operating services within the port was already well underway by then.
Privatization of almost all the operating subsidiaries of Klaipeda State Seaport Authority
(KSSA) was in fact very largely completed by 2002. Periodically re-examining its
policies, to ensure their continuing validity, the Lithuanian government has continued to
maintain two principal exceptions to the general rule of privatization of port services. In
the case of Klaipedos Nafta, which operates the oil terminal (30% of the port's business),
the government still owns 70%, in order to maintain a strong national role in what would
otherwise be a largely foreign-controlled business. It also believes that keeping the port's
pilots as KSSA employees helps reduce the risk of accidents, which would have such
unusually high indirect costs given the country's lack of any alternative general-purpose
port. Most of the services used by the port authority itself are now purchased from
                                             5


outside suppliers. All dredging (amounting to some 9 million cubic meters in total since
1999) has been done by private contractors in assignments won competitively.

4.2      Klaipeda's private operating companies have played a very large role in the
development and diversification of the port's operations over the last ten years.
Especially the main stevedoring companies have collaborated closely with the port
authority and key bodies within the country, notably the national railways, to bring to
successful fruition transport services that would capture new traffics. This was
particularly important in the effort to generate replacements for the receding Russian
transit traffic. Investments in new facilities and new equipment in the ports and in
overland transport had to be coordinated with adjustments in operational practices and
tariffs to put together multi-modal packages that would get the best results from the port
authority's draft-deepening and navigational improvements. These were all crucial
components in attracting, for instance, more of Lithuania's own grain trade and the large
volume of Belarus' fertilizer exports.

4.3      A recent review by the Lithuanian government of its port experience showed that
while the port authority had invested some US$350 million equivalent since the country's
independence in 1990, the operating companies - stevedores, ship repairers, freight
forwarders and all the smaller supporting services - had invested between 1994 and 2008
a total of some US$700 million equivalent. As many as 16 major specialized terminals,
for liquid and dry fertilizers, different grains and various other goods, had been built,
some of them specifically to serve the larger vessels and higher flows coming as a result
of the marine-side improvements by the port authority. The stevedoring companies have
not changed much in total number, but they have evolved from being mostly universal to
being more specialized, providing services better adapted to the principal commodities
they handle. Nonetheless in most of the main trades the port now handles sufficient
volumes that shippers do have an effective choice between alternative service-suppliers.
Worries about excessively high prices and/or poor quality of service are raised only about
a few of the specialized subsidiary services where there is insufficient within-port
competition, such as towing and mooring.

4.4 In Poland, although the Port Reform legislation had laid a strong foundation for
privatization, detailed planning and local consensus building was much less advanced by
1999 than in Lithuania. Expanding the role of the private sector in port operations
remained largely a task for the future, reflected in the project objectives of accelerating
the development of Szczecin port and strengthening the functions of the new landlord
port authority. The Ministry of Treasury which was the main shareholder in the
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority had already called for completion of the
privatization of the port's operating subsidiaries as independent companies by 2003. The
Bank had added to this with its proposal to seek offers from companies not previously
operating in the port to rent land there to develop specific export or import trades, and to
work with the authority on site plans.

4.5     Szczecin-Swinoujscie is now much more advanced than other Polish ports in
privatization. The process of disposing of the port authority's shares in the former
subsidiaries had to go through several rounds but was very largely completed by early
2008. All the five or six principal stevedores operating in the port have been completely
                                             6


privatized - to former managers and employees, in most cases with participation also of
other private investors. Principal shareholdings remaining with the port authority are
limited to Infra-Port, a maintenance and repair company which also provides water-
supply and waste-collection services to vessels, and a small so-called World Trade Centre
office. Almost everything else, including pilotage, is now private and independent.
SSSA itself remains principally owned by the national State Treasury (86%), with
remaining shares almost entirely in the hands of individuals, former and current
employees. Targeted shares of 24.5% each remain reserved for the two municipalities
(Szczecin and Swinoujscie), but there has not yet been progress toward their realization.

4.6     SSSA also took up earnestly in 1999 the Bank's suggestion (inspired in part by an
EBRD initiative in Kazakhstan) to attract new private investors. With some 12 private
firms that put forward specific proposals, it worked jointly on the plans for developing
the necessary infrastructure on Grabowski Island and Katowice Peninsula. Unfortunately
momentum seems to have been lost in 2001-02 with the economic slowdown in the
country and changes in the authority's plans that were necessitated by the large
unexpected expenditures at Swinoujscie and the procedural problem that had arisen in
contracting the infrastructure. One company did pay its rent for several years, but then
gave up.

4.7     The last few years have begun to see further fruits from these combined efforts at
the Szczecin-Swinoujscie complex. From a recent review the port authority has
established that current private investments - either recently completed or still underway
- on the lands for which it is responsible within the port precincts amount to nearly
US$lOO million equivalent. The principal projects undertaken are addition of new cranes
and, for coal, bulk import equipment, new grain and soya-bean silos, new warehouses
and storage yards. Even some of the parties who had participated in the 1999 planning
efforts are showing renewed interest, and several private companies are proposing
construction of processing facilities within the port area, using imported raw materials or
with a view to export of the product. Other investments - including development of
largely new terminals, as for LPG, agricultural goods, and refrigerated trade - have been
made by the privatized companies to which extensive land areas within the broader
precincts of the port were assigned when the communist institutional arrangements were
being replaced in the early 1990s.

4.8     Potentially the most important new investor who has become involved with the
port is Deutsche Bahn (DB) through its purchase, earlier in 2009, of PCC Rail, the
Polish-German company whose subsidiary Drobnica Port Szczecin had been awarded in
March 2008 a pre-agreement for the container terminal concession to be established on
the land developed under the Bank-assisted project on Grabowski Island. There are no
indications that DB bought PCC Rail in order to obtain this concession; its involvement
in the port is rather a by-product of the acquisition, which was aimed principally at taking
over PCC Rail's main operations, as the most successful independent train operator in
Poland.

4.9     The concession agreement which was confirmed in final form in November 2009,
after approval by the government of Poland (including the national competition authority)
and the DB boards, aimed at starting operations in December 2009 and more formally in
                                             7


June 2010, with a target to reach annual traffic of 150-200,000 TEU within a few years.
The agreement has not been published, but it gives strong incentive to the concessionaire
to build up traffic rapidly. The concessionaire is required to pay a comparatively high
rent per square meter occupied and no other regular charges, but it will face a penalty fee
in the event of shortfall from targeted traffic volumes. DB's involvement could evidently
bring much benefit to Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port, greatly helping to develop the port's
role in trade using overland links to southern Europe or the Black Sea. But success will
probably depend also on change in DB policies toward cooperation with Poland on
transport to and from Germany, so as to reduce rail freight-rate disincentives to German
use of Szczecin port and enable the companies to establish mutually consistent goals.

4.10 These possibilities do nonetheless open very important new perspectives for the
difficult job of redeveloping a role of the importance that Szczecin-Swinoujscie had in
the first half of the twentieth century, and the necessary traffics. New foreign investors
are gradually being attracted to build large plants in the Szczecin region, as in production
of tires, windmill blades and cranes, and distribution of steel products using the region's
long-term comparative advantage for north-south trade. But the considerable lag in the
development of both infrastructure and active trade relations will likely mean a long and
patient effort to reach full success.

5. Environmental Improvement
5.1    Mainly because of the substantial dredging planned, both projects were placed in
the Bank's environmental category "A". The Bank attached additional importance to the
environmental issues in both cases because of the wide preoccupation of the people and
the governments of the region with the deterioration in the water quality of the Baltic Sea
over many decades.

5.2    In both projects the management plans and the loan agreements stressed careful
assessment and monitoring of contaminated sediments in areas to be dredged. They also
envisaged construction of confined disposal facilities (CDFs), as had been proposed for
Szczecin by a team from the Rotterdam Maritime Group in 1997, building on
Rotterdam's own experience in coping with the problem.

5.3      The monitoring was carried out seriously and continuously. Both ports have had
strictly enforced policies that dredging can only be undertaken if analysis of sediment
samples indicates the absence of serious contamination. At Klaipeda, the material lifted
during the dredging of the port entrance and the access channel through the center of the
port was closely monitored for safety by external firms (BCEOM, and later BLG)
responsible for supervising these major contracts. Most of the dredged material was
clean and was used in the surrounding areas for beach replenishment. A small amount,
on the other hand, did contain contaminants, but within the range allowed by
international standards and regulations for disposal in one of the designated deep open-
water disposal sites in the Klaipeda coastal zone.

5.4    Short-term environmental monitoring of project works and their consequences
was carried out by Lithuanian institutes under twelve-month contracts that were let for
monitoring of fish migration and slope stability, and to sample sediments. Another
                                             8


concern during project preparation had been possible erosion of beaches and sand dunes.
Measures were designed and put in place continually to compensate for ongoing erosion
by disposing of clean dredging masses on the affected beaches. After completion of the
breakwaters and initial dredging works, UAB "Geoprojektas" prepared a final report
which concluded that there had been no significant negative impacts due to the works in
the port.

5.5    Very similar approaches were applied by MOS at Szczecin-Swinoujscie.
Dredging could not be undertaken without site-specific permits, and the permits were
issued only after sampling of the floor sediments indicated low or zero contamination.
Annual contracts for monitoring fish spawning and migration were made with various
competent local institutes.

5.6     It has become clear with time, and with the experience of wider amounts of
dredging, that the scale of the contamination problem was significantly smaller than
originally feared in both projects. On the other hand, there were limited areas - notably
in ship-repair yards and other small areas where repairs had been carried out, and quite
limited sites where chemicals had been dropped inadvertently over time or dumped -
which had high levels of contaminated material and which should therefore not be
touched by dredging until proper arrangements had been made for separation of the
contaminated sediments raised and their placement in a confined area protected against
possibility of polluting their surroundings.

5.7     However, the simultaneous efforts in both port areas to reach broad agreement on
an appropriate site for the confined facility (that would receive contaminated sludge and
stock it until decontaminated), and acceptable arrangements for its realization, ran into
much greater difficulties. The difficulties were further extended by the number of parties
whose accord was required, and by choice of what sometimes turned out to be incorrect
legal or bureaucratic procedures for advancing the matter, so that work had to be restarted
on adjusted lines. Besides the port authority and its supervising ministry, the key parties
were normally the Ministry of Environment, NGOs interested in environmental issues,
and the local government authorities, especially the City Council. An important factor
delaying or blocking agreement appears to have often been fears, especially on the part of
locally elected officials, of criticism from citizens who found either themselves, or a
Nature 2000 site that they had helped promote, alongside a facility of the type envisaged.

5.8     With funds included in both lending operations to cover part of the costs of
preparing and building the CDFs (still today the only Bank-assisted projects involving
such facilities), the Bank gave emphatic support to the borrowing agencies' efforts to
progress the matter. It agreed to lengthy postponements of loan closing dates to allow
time for bringing to fruition new schedules for the outstanding steps to CDF construction.
Eventually, however, the Bank took the view that the loans had to be closed, and it
accepted to do this without canceling the portion that had been reserved for the CDF,
either because the moneys had already been required for another purpose (the
unexpected, punitive arbitration award under the Polish Seaway project) or the borrower
indicated that it would use its own funds to build the facility on the extended schedule
that had become necessary, as in the Lithuanian case.
                                              9


5.9     The prolonged local efforts that have been devoted to the subject are now pointing
in both countries towards adoption of the alternative of chemical treatment that would
convert the contaminated sludge into material that could be used (and probably sold) for
building roads and embankments. Transporting and`processing the much lower than
anticipated volumes of severely contaminated sludge is now believed to be a more
economical solution than the earlier, relatively large-scale, long-term isolation.

5.10 A plant with an intended eventual annual treatment capacity of 400,000 cubic
meters (only a small part of which would be used for treating port dredge spoil) is under
construction near Szczecin, by a private company, Milex, working closely with the
Regional Water Management Authority.

5.1 1 At Klaipeda, active testing and refinement of plans for urgent temporary storage
within the port area, dewatering there, followed by transport and processing of
contaminated sludge at a plant some 15 kilometers away, have also been underway. But
as of November 2009 funds had yet to be found for the additional capacity that would be
required at the proposed plant (use of KSSA funds is alleged to be not legally
straightforward since the plant belongs to the Ministry of Economy). Stronger pressures
for action are now being exerted by Klaipeda's large private ship repair yard whose
operations are increasingly hampered by the continued prohibition on dredging in
contaminated areas of the port and consequent difficulties in lowering their floating
docks. The port authority had joint plans with the ship repair yard to complete by mid-
201 0 the technical design for temporary storage at the Old Boat Harbor which had
eventually been found unsuitable for a long-term CDF but could well be used during the
next few years for interim storage purposes.

5.12 Environmental objectives have been well served in both ports by the Bank's
loans. The marine civil engineering works which accounted for the largest part of overall
project costs have made navigation and operations in the ports safer. The sensitivity
about contaminated dredge spoil has led to increased monitoring, control and research.
Monitoring and testing results consistently indicate that permit systems used for dredging
have been successful in avoiding disturbance of the very limited areas severely
contaminated. More efficient solutions appear to be emerging to substitute for CDFs, but
urgent decisions are needed from the Lithuanian government to assign responsibility for
contracting expansion of the treatment plant and for contributing to the needed capital.

6. Conclusions and Lessons
 6.1      Both ports have increased their competitiveness by combination o major f
 rehabilitationhpgrade o their marinefacilities with transformation, more radical than
                            f
foreseen in the Bank's forecasts, in the structure o their traffic. Klaipeda responded
                                                         f
 effectively to unexpected loss of much of its transit trade by converting many of its
 facilities to better meet the needs of other traffics, national and transit, and has become
 mainly a national port. Szczecin-Swinoujscie was equally called upon to cope with
 significantly larger than expected reduction in its traditional (bulk) traffics, and it
achieved a very rapid growth of new and more profitable container and ferry traffics -
despite links with its hinterland much weaker than in the case of Lithuania, due to their
different histories in the last few decades. The new roles that the two ports carved out
                                             10


were fully consistent with both national and EU objectives, and indeed constituted
important contributions to their countries? economic strategies.

6.2     The transformations described are major accomplishments of the new landlord
port authorities which the two governments had created in the 1990s in accordance
with their preferences for the ports sector. Both authorities successfully completed
large-scale privatization programs, converting the subsidiaries that they inherited from
previous integrated structures into independent, self-standing companies owned mostly
by combinations of employees and investors. The port authorities have created a sound
competitive environment for the operation of the companies and seen them respond
increasingly well.

6.3     Taking advantage of the large improvements to the marine infrastructure brought
about by the port authorities and the Maritime Office Szczecin, the private companies
that were created in the ports, along with gradually increasing numbers coming to the
port from outside, have been making rapidly growing investments in terminals and other
service installations. At Klaipeda such investments already cumulate to some US$700
million equivalent; at Szczecin-Swinoujscie, very recent and current private investment
on port lands already amounts to nearly US$lOO million equivalent. The investments
made have often been important elements in attracting new traffics. Companies in
Lithuania especially have had increasing experience of working in inter-modal groups,
often involving also the national railways, to develop integrated packages - combining
infrastructure, equipment, operating practices, pricing and other aspects - to win the
business of major potential customers.

6.4     Besides improvements to navigational safety, the authorities responsiblefor
port and water services have also strengthened environmental standards, particularly
with regard to handling o ships? waste, and to minimizing oil spills, and their spread
                           f
when they do occur. In line with the emphases of EIAs developed in preparation of the
World Bank loans, both ports have considerably strengthened the monitoring of their
seabeds, of the extent of contamination in any area proposed for dredging, of the changes
brought about by dredging, and of the effect of dredging operations on fish life and
movements. Strict permitting arrangements have been sufficient to avoid attempts to
dredge in seriously contaminated areas. But neither port has yet built facilities, such as
were provided for in the World Bank loans, which would offer a long-term solution to the
problem posed by contaminated sludge, and hence enable the ban on dredging in such
areas to be temporarily lifted when and where highly necessary - for instance in some
ship repair facilities. Considerable progress has however been made on examination of
alternative possible solutions, and it is pointing in both countries to use of chemical
treatment capacity, as is now being built near Szczecin, for converting such sludge into
material useable safely for road foundations and embankments.

6.5    The experience of these two projects suggests lessons that may be useful for the
handling of other projects (not only ports) in four main areas. These are spelled out
below.

   0   Even in countries with comparatively high levels of education, technical
       assistance can be vital for efficient application of unfamiliar techniques or
                                                    11


        procedures. The Bank needs to make careful judgments on specific needs, defend
        those judgments strongly with higher-level country officials, and match
        concessions on any of them with appropriate compensatory actions to substitute
        for the assistance or reduce the need.

6.6     There is little doubt that the exceptionally smooth implementation of the Klaipeda
project owed much to the very careful attention given by the Bank staff and government
to preparatory studies, detailed engineering, selection of PIU staff, and related training.
Grants in support of Klaipeda project preparation were mobilized from the Japanese-
financed PHRD fund and from the Netherlands. One minor element covered, for
example, was assistance from three specialized trainers to help ensure adequate capacity
for treatment of all the topics that would have to be handled by the PIU. In outlining its
view of the overall experience of implementing the Klaipeda port project with the Bank,
the Lithuanian Ministry of Transport and Communications gave special emphasis to the
key role played by the PIU and the importance of the way it had been set up and trained.

6.7     There were, however, also occasions when Lithuania turned down the opportunity
to receive Bank-financed technical assistance. In 2002, for instance, it convinced the
Bank to drop provisions in the loan agreement regarding hiring of technical assistance on
various management and financial subjects that the Bank's appraisal mission had                    I




considered important. The funds were diverted to civil works. But advice was still
sought, though more from local sources. The port authority has itself commissioned
studies2by national and international consultants on topics to which the Bank had drawn
attention, including work that has contributed to current policy adjustments on land lease
rates and incentives for landwarehouse redevelopment by lessees.

6.8     Poland has also adopted a selective approach to technical assistance. For
instance, the SSSA accepted in 2006 the suggestion from the World Bank Warsaw Office
to hire a Contract Engineer for the works at Grabowski Island (finally selecting a
DanisWPolishjoint venture for the job), and it has stressed in this review the highly
useful contribution made - both directly for supervising execution of the contracts and
indirectly for diversifying the experience of its own staff. On the other hand, the
government did decide in 2000 to exclude from the proposed project and loan quite
extensive technical assistance provisions that had been a reed between government
representatives and the appraisal mission for the project! The only reference to technical
assistance in the eventual loan agreement was for that on dredging management, which
MOS was to hire for itself.



2
 Among studies produced (in Lithuanian language) are: Lithuania Free Market Institute, 2005. "Study of
Port Management Policy: Challenges, Ways, Decisions. Lithuania Free Market Institute, University of
                                                         "

Klaipeda and Economic Consultation & Research, 1995."Study of Klaipeda State Seaport's Economic and
Social Impact for Klaipeda City and Region and the Lithuanian State. and Carl Bro and ERT group,
                                                                      'I


2006. "Study of Klaipeda Port Dues and Competitiveness"
3
 On SSSA organizational matters, financial management, preparation of cost-based tariff, performance
monitoring of port operators, and the process of divestiture of its remaining shares in the port operating
companies, as noted i the agreed Aide Memoire of the Appraisal Mission January 24 - February 2,2000.
                     n
                                             12


6.9      The worries that therefore arise in retrospect are, first, that some of the
weaknesses that manifested themselves in the execution of the Polish project arose
specifically in areas that had been intended to be covered by the technical assistance and,
second, that there is no evidence of other adjustments by the Bank (either within the loans
or in its own support plans) to compensate for the absence of the technical assistance that
its appraisal mission had considered essential. Indeed, some sections of the PAD retain
references to help on specific topics from the technical assistance, as though it would still
be coming. Since the problem was probably that the government was felt likely to turn
down the loan if the Bank insisted on retention of the loan-financed technical assistance
provisions, while the Bank did not itself have the operational budget to cover direct
provision of the services needed, the only solution might have been to try to find
additional bilateral/multilateral grant resources to help out; accession to EU was still too
far off in 2000 for membership privileges to have provided a viable solution. But for the
Bank to proceed with such a loan without any sustainable arrangements being in place for
the borrower to secure the intellectual resources deemed essential should be considered
disappointing on the part of the World Bank as an assistance agency.

    0   The Bank needs to be cautious in pushing specific technical solutions, of which it
        has not had its own direct experience, to resolve particular problems. Greater
        progress, at lower cost, would probably have been made in finding appropriate
        solutions to the problem of contaminated materials that are disturbed by dredging
        operations had the Bank concentrated on strengthening borrowers? monitoring,
        control and research measures rather than pressing for action on loan components
        to finance establishment of confined disposal facilities (CDFs).

6.10 While the Bank?s efforts in connection with treatment of contaminated sediments
that may be raised by dredging have yielded quite useful results, those results look poor
compared with the stated loan objectives and they are rather small relative to the
administrative and diplomatic effort spent by the Bank and the countries. Some Bank
staff members that were able to observe events quite closely appear to think that the Bank
made a straightforward mistake in 1999-2000 in getting so committed to a CDF as the
correct technical solution. Given the interest of environmental issues to the critics of
development efforts, the Bank was perhaps tempted to elevate its potential contribution
on the problem of contaminated sludge within the hierarchy of loan objectives. On the
other hand, recognizing its lack of previous direct experience on the matter, it behooved
the Bank to be quite cautious in specifying the longer-term solution, which, as in all
similar cases, would need to be processed not only through study but also through
extensive compromise among different local parties.

6.1 1 In view of the large amount of dredging envisaged under each project, the EIAs
put much emphasis on the need for wider monitoring of sea-bed areas that might be
dredged, stronger control of dredging initiatives, better discrimination among
contaminated portions of the dredge spoil, and careful monitoring of effects on fish life
and movement. These appear to have been very correct recommendations. Their
thorough pursuit has shown that the contamination problem was significantly smaller,
less widespread and more heavily concentrated in small areas, than assumed in most of
the studies at that time (2000-03) that tried to address the scale and placing of a CDF.
Hence the planning efforts give now the impression of having been too accelerated and
                                               13


too ambitious. It would have been better to allow more time for thorough monitoring of
realities, especially since there was no evidence of ill-effects already occurring, only
suspicions about the possible consequences of Soviet environmental neglect.

6.12 If it is desired to go beyond supporting improved monitoring efforts, there is a
sound and understandable preference - and not only in the Bank - to be taking up, in a
loan or comparable aid agreement, solutions which have been sufficiently researched and
canvassed that adequate consensus has been reached, and all key decisions firmly made
and legally recorded. Implementation can proceed efficiently. But the two cases covered
show quite clearly that use of such an approach would have required postponement of
loan approval by at least two years and probably more. In the given cases, including
Klaipeda with its more serious contamination problem, this would have been a mistake,
delaying the main economic benefits from the marine engineering works, not saving the
port from spread of contamination since preventive measures were anyway undertaken,
but probably supporting a less well adapted solution to the problem than now seems to be
emerging.

6.13 Making firm and final decisions on design and siting of all components a stricter
pre-condition for any loan need not of course have the unfortunate consequences implied
if a small loan for the items concerned could be processed separately two or three years
later. But administrative costs of such an additional independent loan operation appear to
have discouraged wide use of such an approach in Bank operations.

6.14 One further consideration that might however recommend such a small,
independent operation is that it may facilitate choice of a more appropriate executing
agency. The former Director-General of Klaipeda Seaport Authority concluded from
many years of trying to advance the CDF there that the most viable solution would
probably be to give local government the responsibility to build (or contract) the plant
(whether CDF or the treatment plants now favored) and collect fees from the port (and
any other) users. In this way the local politicians would get the credit for development of
the remedial installations, and not only citizen criticisms for smells and noise.

        A vital task of ports is to ascertain the changing hinterland, or geographical
        market area, that they can expect to serve, and to identify and help resolve policy
        or infrastructure obstacles to the development of new trades. It should now be
        normal to have an economist experienced in trade and transport issues participate
        in a supervision mission to a port borrower at least once every twelve or eighteen
        months.

6.15 Probably the most significant lesson with regard specifically to ports that emerges
from the experience of these two projects is to underline the importance of port efforts to
lead identification of its potential hinterland, stimulate private initiatives to help bring the
hinterland's trades to life, and work with government ministries and services to overcome
bureaucratic and policy obstacles.

6.16 Szczecin-Swinoujscie was a case with particularly important needs of this sort,
where the Bank could have developed and seriously followed better-chosen M&E
indicators and included an economist in periodic supervision efforts to focus on the
                                            14


impacts expected from the Bank?s support. It would clearly have been desirable if the
Bank had been able to follow up, already in 2000, the first stage of its work (during
project appraisal) on new trade potentials and on the private companies? proposals for use
of the port lands to be developed. More inquiry could have been made into what would
be necessary to realize the broad potentials for trade through Szczecin, whether in
fulfillment of the German potential it had identified, from the Czech Republic and
Slovakia, or from within Poland itself. Because the region had been so divided and little
involved in international trade in recent times, serious work was required on trade and
transport facilitation, to identify potential problems and measures to overcome them, and
avoid unwarranted optimism in the appraisal?s projections.   I




6.17 Once the delays in Szczecin?snew berth developments were being overcome in
2004-05, with Poland by then also a full member of the EU, it would have been highly
desirable to have a broadly experienced Bank transport economist look once again at the
broader impacts that cooperation between the Port Authority and the World Bank had
been supposed to have. Trade and transport facilitation and planning issues, and the
institutional arrangements for dealing with them in the accession environment,
mobilizing and coordinating public and private initiatives, would then have been
reviewed to help identify the right next steps and accelerate progress.
                                               15

Appendix 1: Lithuania Klaipeda Port Project
SUMMARY
This report assesses the performance of the Lithuania Klaipeda Port Project. The project
was supported by IBRD Loan No. 7014-LT of US$35.36 million, which was approved on
May 11 2000. The loan closed on December 3 1 2008, four years behind schedule.

The project had two specific development objectives: (a) to strengthen the long-term
competitiveness of the Port of Klaipeda in the Baltic Region and (b) to improve
environmental conditions of the port area by preventing spills, improving waste reception
facilities, and providing necessary disposal facilities and continuous monitoring of
environmental conditions at the port.

The project consisted mainly of two large and two small components. The large
components were major marine civil works: (a) rehabilitation and extension of the
breakwaters protecting the port entrance (planned costs including physical contingencies
US$21 .O million; actual cost US$23.0 million), which would reduce wave action,
improve safety and largely eliminate days when operations had to be suspended; and (b)
dredging the port entrance and main access channel through the port (planned cost
US$l8.5 million; actual cost US$39.7 million), doubling the size of vessels the port could
receive and eventually, through contracts additional to those originally envisaged for
inclusion in the project, extending the deeper draft virtually throughout the port. The
smaller components: were (a) establishment of a confined disposal facility to receive
contaminated sludge from,dredging operations (planned costs US$5.8 million), which
was not in the end built; and (b) establishment and equipping of a pollution control unit
(planned cost US$l.7; actual cost US$3.0 million).

IEG rates Outcome as moderately satisfactory. Project objectives and design were
substantially relevant to the needs of the port and to the country's pursuit of greatly
expanded trade relations with the EU and other more distant parts of the world. The
major marine works have significantly improved the attractions of Klaipeda compared
with other Eastern Baltic ports, and the effects have already been seen in the advent of
new private investors to the port and the success it has had in attracting long-distance
traffic to/from Asia; its share of the traffic handled by general-purpose Eastern Baltic
ports has edged up, and it has become less dependent on volatile Russian transit traffic.
Navigational safety and pollution control have also significantly improved. Project
efficiency is high, with a re-estimated economic rate of return of 38 percent. But
repeated disagreements among the various central and local bodies concerned have
prevented fulfillment of the project objective relating to disposal facilities - in particular
for contaminated dredge spoil. This leaves an important problem unsolved, which has
not been adding to pollution because dredging has been and remains confined to areas
where the sediments pass strict tests. But it is preventing the execution of dredging
works in some small areas (notably ship repair yards) where they are much needed.

The Risk to Development Outcome is rated moderate. The Seaport Authority has
demonstrated a very sound management record. Important advance has been made
towards identifying a solution for the treatment of contaminated dredge spoil which
                                            16

appears to be superior to the alternatives considered in the past and hence should
facilitate consensus building. But the north Baltic is expected to remain a very
competitive maritime market.

IEG rates Bank performance as satisfactory. High-quality technical support was
mobilized for engineering preparation and testing of the marine works proposed and for
work on environmental issues. Great care was given to the development of local
capacities for handling loan and project execution. Project supervision was thorough and
sustained.

IEG rates Borrower performance overall as moderately satisfactory. This reflects the
combination of a rating of satisfactory for the Seaport Authority as implementing
agency, with a rating for the performance of government as a whole on this project that
cannot be superior to moderately satisfactory, given failure, over the almost ten years
since the loan was made, to bring about a widely acceptable compromise for solving the
contaminated sediments problem.
                                                           17

Principal Ratings: Lithuania: Klaipeda Port Project
(Loan 7014-LT)
                                   ICR                          ICR Review*                          PPAR


Outcome                  Moderately                          Moderately                         Moderately
                         Satisfactory                        Satisfactory                       Satisfactory

Risk to
Development                Moderate                             Moderate                          Moderate
Outcome

Bank
Performance                Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                        Satisfactory

Borrower                   Moderately                         Moderately                         Moderately
Performance                Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                       Satisfactory




 The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Ba,nk.
The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
Project                             Task Manager/Leader                Division Chief/            Country Director
                                                                       Sector Director
 Appraisal                               Pedro Taborga                   Eva Molnar                 Basil Kavalsky
 Completion                               Henry Kerali                  Motoo Konishi              Theodore Ahlers
                                             18

BACKGROUND
1.      Lithuania, with a population of some 3.5 million, lies on the eastern shore of the
Baltic Sea and borders with Belarus in the east and with Poland and Russia's Kaliningrad
region to the south. The Bank gave extensive support to the country in the brief period
beginning with its independence from the Soviet Union in 1990 and ending with its
accession to the European Union in 2004. Nearly twenty loans in total were approved
between 1992 and 2003, concentrated in the period 1995-2000. Transport was one of the
subjects which drew particular attention, as in the other Baltic countries, because all
remained heavily involved in carriage of international trade with Russia and equally all
attached high priority to their own integration into the European Union. The project
covered in this report is one of the last for which the Bank gave financial support in
Lithuania.

2.      The Lithuanian government had expressed interest in a project to improve the
channel entrance of the Port of Klaipeda as early as 1994, two years after the country had
joined the Bank. As sole major seaport, Klaipeda remains the main hub for conduct of
the country's international trade and for coordination of its transit function. It offered
advantages for handling east-west transit trade because of the relatively high quality of its
road and rail transport links with countries to the east, and lack of dependence on ice-
breakers for assuring maritime access in winter.

3.      Main efforts in project preparation started in 1997. The project was developed by
the Lithuanian Ministry of Transport and the Klaipeda State Seaport Authority (KSSA),
with support from a Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) grant from the
Government of Japan and grants from the Government of the Netherlands. Project
components were identified on the basis of investment priorities and feasibility studies
developed by KSSA with assistance from consultants and the World Bank. Forceful
leadership was given by the Director-General of the port authority. Engineering
preparation of the project was completed with a thorough study of the selected solution,
including ship navigation simulations by port pilots under the modified port entrance
conditions. Very close attention was given to developing local capacities for managing
project implementation, including careful selection and detailed training of staff of the
project implementation unit (PIU).

OBJECTIVES & COMPONENTS
4.       The main objective of the project as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report and the
Loan Agreement was to strengthen the long-term competitiveness of the Port of Klaipeda
in the Baltic Region. The second objective identified in these documents was to improve
environmental conditions of the port area by preventing spills, improving waste reception
facilities, and providing necessary disposal facilities and continuous monitoring of
environmental conditions at the port. Table 1-1 lists the elements that were included in
the Bank-assisted project, and shows the amounts expected to be spent and actually spent
on each, and the sources of financing.

5.     The main thrust of the investment envisaged under the project was sharply to
upgrade the quality of the marine-side infrastructure by improvement of the layout and
the access channel. These improvements would provide better protection from high
                                             19

winddwaves and enable the port to receive deeper-draught vessels. As shown in Table 1-
1, six physical investment items were included:

       Rehabilitation of the two breakwaters, dating from the 19thcentury, which
       protected the existing channel entrance, and major extension of both, with their
       heads being brought closer to one another, to reduce wave energy entering the
       port, and consequently wave disturbance, in turn facilitating ship maneuvers
       within the port and reducing the number of days when operations had to be
       suspended for safety reasons;

       Dredging of the channel entrance, to provide a depth of 14 meters and a width of
       120 meters, improving safety during idout maneuvers and doubling (to some
       60,000 DWT) the maximum size of vessels that could enter the port, later
       extended to include removal of wrecks encumbering the entrance and dredging to
       at least I 3 meters of the port's central channel running from the entrance from
       the sea and giving access to all berths;

       Introduction of specijkally designed mooringJendering systems at some berths, to
       reduce the damages and loss of working time that resulted from the wave patterns
       which sometimes developed;

       Installation of wave/current recorders at the entrance to the port, to help pilots
       make rational decisions during maneuvers, and to extend navigation periods under
       adverse weather conditions;

       Supply ofport/ship discharge service equipment (including booms, boats,
       skimmers and a waste reception facility) to a permanent unit that was to be
       established to monitor and control pollution from ship wastes;

       Environmental mitigation measures envisaged were the selection of a site for
       depositing contaminated dredged materials and construction of a confined
       disposal facility (CDF) to receive such materials resulting from future deepening
       of the port.

6.      The project also included substantial provisions for technical assistance in support
of these investments and the overall objectives described. The port's pilots needed to be
trained on a simulation model to achieve best results from the changed layout and
navigation conditions. To further improve port management, technical assistance was to
be provided on potentials and means for privatizing or contracting out further services
such as piloting, maintenance and environmental protection - and steps towards eventual
privatization of KSSA itself. Land leasing issues were deemed to warrant a specific
study, to avoid cross-subsidies between harbor dues and land leases and to help ensure a
more transparent, fair and economically efficient management of the port's extensive
land resources.

7.      Funds were also provided for the studies needed to bring the Confined Disposal
Facility (CDF) into being. Substantial provision was made too for hire of supplementary
expertise to supervise the civil works contracts that would be let under the project, to
                                                      20

review regulations and penalties related to fisheries protection at marine construction
sites, and to assist implementation of the environmental mitigation program.

Table 1-1: Lithuania Klaipeda Port Project:
Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent) & Financine. Planned & Actual
                                                           Appraisal   ActuaVLatest   Percentage
                       Component                           Estimate      Estimate     of Appraisal
                                                           (US$mlns)   (US$ mlns)        (%I
Investment Items
RehabExtension N. & S. Breakwaters                           19.1         23.0          120
Dredging Channel EntranceDJavig. Aid                         16.7          7.6           45
         Dredging Entrance Channel (quays 10-115)             __          10.4          Addtl.
         Dredging Entrance west-side (picket 17-28)                       19.2          Addtl.
                                                              --                        Addtl.
         Wreck removal at Entrance
 Improvement MooringFendering Systems                        1.8
                                                                           2.5
                                                                           0.0           __
 Wave/Current Recorders                                      0.9           1.1          122
 Podship Discharge Service Equipment                         1.5           3.0          200
 Environmental Mitigation Measures                           5.3           0.0           -_
                   Total Baseline Costs                     45.3          66.8          147
     Physical Contingencies (1oOh)                           4.5           --
     Price Contingencies                                     2.1           __
                    Subtotal, Physical Investment           51.9          66.8          129
Technical Assistance
       Training of Port Pilots                               0.5           0.2           46
       Port OperationsManagement Support                     0.9           0.0           _-
        Contractnease Management                             0.2                         __
       Design of Confined Disposal Facility                  0.9           0.6           70
       Civil Works & Environment Supervision                 1.8           0.7           41
       PIU Operating Costs and Annual Audits                 0.3           0.7          23 3
                    Subtotal, Technical Assistance           4.6           2.3           50

Front-end fee (IBRD)                                         0.4           0.4           88

     Total Financing Required                               56.9         69.5           122
Sources of Funds
    IBRD                                                    35.4         35.4           100
    KSSA                                                    11.5         32.1           279
    Bilateral aid                                           10.0          2.0            20
Source: KSSA Financial Department

8.      The table shows that the total cost of the project was some 22 percent in excess of
the amount planned, with the Klaipeda State Seaport Authority covering all the overrun.
The main reason for the increase was a very substantial expansion of dredging and related
works from some $16.7 million originally planned to $39.7 million carried out; in
physical terms, the total amount of dredging undertaken was a large multiple of the
700,000 cubic meters envisaged at appraisal. Helping to finance these additional costs
were the savings from a few minor project components eliminated at various stages in
agreement with the Bank as having lost importance. A significant factor towards the end
of the project was also the late appearance of potentially superior new solutions to the
problems of contaminated dredge material, pushing possible construction outside the time
range that could be covered by loan proceeds.

9.     The much greater than expected expenditure for the PIU and audit work reflects
the expanded scale of investment undertaken and the much longer than expected time-
span of the project. The latter was due in turn partly to the repeated delays on the issue of
the CDF, and partly to efforts to take fullest possible advantage of the good prices offered
                                                  21

for the dredging works rather than cancel part of the Bank loan. The closing date of the
loan was extended more than once, eventually to December 3 1 2008, some eight years
from the date of loan effectiveness, double the four years originally provided for.

RELEVANCE

10.      The Country Assistance Strategy which had been issued early in 1999 stressed
support for programs to improve macroeconomic stability and to assist reforms and
institution building that would contribute to achievement of EU accession and best results
therefrom. Among the issues prioritized in connection with EU accession were
improvement of infrastructure and environmental management, and enhancing the
country's competitiveness through support for private investment and private-sector-led
growth. The project and the objectives around which it had been designed were fully
consistent with this strategy and were important elements in the pursuit of these particular
issues. The last Bank loan to Lithuania was made in 2002, and no Country Assistance
Strategy has been prepared for the country since the one in 1999. The relevance of
project objectives was substantial.

1 1.     Strengthening the country's capacities for participation in competitive
international trade and improving environmental management, including that of the
region's marine resources, have also remained, since accession, high-priority issues in
Lithuania's relations with the EU, as most recently reflected in the EU Strategy for the
Baltic Sea Region that was issued in June 2009. The components of the project were
well selected in light of the needs identified, and the careful attention given to their
preparation and to institutional capacities for their implementation yielded the desired
results. The relevance o project design was substantial. Overall, therefore, the relevance
                         f
o the project objectives and its design is substantial.
 f

EFFICACY

12.     The PDO Indicators at completion, the original target values, baseline values and
actual values at the time of the PPAR mission are shown in Table 1-2. The objectives
are taken up in turn for assessment of performance on each.

13.     Objective 1: To strengthen the long-term competitiveness of the Port of Klaipeda
in the Baltic Region. This objective was substantially achieved. The project's activities,
and especially the marine works carried out, have resulted in the port being able to

    0   Receive and serve bigger, more economical ships (up to Panamax4 size), thus
        achieving economies of scale through increasing traffic and volume. PDO
        Indicators 1 , 2 and 3 reflect the impressive growth of oil and fertilizer exports
        (from Lithuania and in transit) through Klaipeda (these had been the principal
        trades expected to benefit in the near term from increasing the port's depth), and
        rapid expansion of traffic diverted or generated by reductions in ships' unit
        operating costs.


4
 The maximum size of vessel (as measured by its beam) that can pass through the locks of the Panama
canal (a measure specifically used for dry bulk and container vessels).
                                             22

        Provide safer conditions, through improved assistance to navigation, installation
        of a wave/current monitoring system, and deepening of the approaches and
        facilities. Two accidents did occur in 2008 (PDO Indicator 9), but both were
        unrelated to port conditions and were attributed rather to Ship-Master error.

    0   Cut the number of days of port closure (due to wave disturbance) to zero (PDO
        Indicator lo), thus curtailing the loss of precious productive vessel operation
        hours during bad weather. It was however decided, for safety reasons (and given
        current lack of severe pressure on port capacity), to revert to 20 m / s as the
        maximum wind-speed at which navigation could take place in the port, instead of
        increasing it to 30 m / s (PDO Indicator 11).

    0   Promote competition between private operators by providing equivalent water-
        depth conditions at different berths and, potentially, by attracting a major global
        container line - Mediterranean Shipping Co. (MSC) - to establish a terminal in
        the port. MSC, headquartered in Geneva and operating out of Antwerp, bought
        out in September 2007 the remaining 49 years of a local stevedore's lease on a
        group ofberths and has already been bringing container vessels of up to 6,000
        TEU.

    0   Show a strong tendency (with fluctuations) towards increasing its share of the
        overall traffic handled by the eastern Baltic ports to some 15% as shown by the
        figures assembled in Appendix 3, while at the same time moving to a more
        reliable structure, less dependent on transit traffic (especially from Russia) and
        supporting Lithuania's increased direct participation in international trade.

 14.     These factors have all been important in the continuing success of the Port in the
highly competitive conditions of the Baltic Region. The port of Klaipeda suffered
significantly in the first half of the current decade from an abrupt decision by the Russian
Federation to adjust rail tariffs in such a way as to concentrate more of its international
traffic, especially exports of metals and metal products, on its own ports. Rail freight
rates to Russian ports were reduced relative to those for movement within Russia towards
foreign ports. Russian transit traffic through Klaipeda fell by 60 percent between 2000
(when it accounted for 35 percent of the port's annual total) and 2001, and by nearly 90
percent by 2004. The port and its stevedores had to scramble to build up substitute
traffic.

15.      Belarus fertilizer exports were one important contribution, attracted to Klaipeda
by the larger ships and lower freight rates that became possible with project investment in
deepening of the port's entrance channel. Another important initiative is the daily
container block train service to and from Belarus, which is attracting more high-value
traffic. Transit trade for Russia was also partly replaced with two-step direct trades, such
as importation of second-hand motor vehicles from Germany, execution of repairs and
repainting in Lithuania at lower labor costs, and re-export in this upgraded state to Russia
and the Central Asia countries. Russia remains by far the most important export market
for Lithuania's products.

16.     Russian transit traffic through Klaipeda revived significantly in 2007, partly
reflecting measures adopted for compliance with World Trade Organization standards
                                                    23

regarding fair trading practices. But the widespread view is that Russia will continue to
concentrate its trade through its own ports even though they are more costly than
alternatives, and that this could give rise to difficult problems of adaptation for the Baltic
ports. This would be especially serious for the ports such as Ventspils (Latvia) and
Tallinn (Estonia) with very high transit shares of their total traffic. But it could also
affect others through the wide and urgent search for substitute traffics.

17.     Despite the large growth of oil and fertilizer traffic, overall traffic growth has
lagged significantly behind forecasts. Klaipeda's role relative to other north-east Baltic
ports has changed but continues to be very significant. It remains the fourth most
important in the oil trade, but with a share of some 11 percent in 2008, much larger than
ten years before. In dry cargo it remains the third most important, but with a somewhat
decreased share, of 17 percent in 2008. Klaipeda's container and Ro-Ro traffics have
grown very much faster than forecast ten years ago, and much faster than those of most
of the other Baltic ports.

Table 1-2: Lithuania: Klaipeda Port Project: Summary of the PDO Indicators:
Original Targets, and Values at Completion and at PPAR
Indicator                                                 1999       2002     2002     2008     2008
                                                          Initial    Target   Actual   Orig'l   Actual
                                                          Value      Value    Value    F'cast   Value
Objective 1: Strengthening the port's long-term
competitiveness in the Baltic Region
Volume of Oil Products traffic (`000 tons)                  855      2,000    2,667    10,000 9,360
Volume of Dry Fertilizer traffic (`000 tons)              1,687      4,085    2,350     8,200 7,220
GeneratedDiverted Traffic (`000 tons)                                  500      676     2,250 5,300
Freight cost savings from Accessibility
                            for Panamax vessels ($mlns)               2.0       2.0     10.0     30.0
Cash Flow from Operations ($ mlns)                         15.5      19.0      24.0              24.0
Return on Net Assets                                       8.5%       9.3%      7.3%             6.0%
Debt service coverage                                      13.8       6.4      9.1               7.8

Objective 2: Improving environmental conditions of the    )rt area
Safely disposed dredged material (mln cu mtrs)              0.38     0.50      1.40
Number of vessel accidents                                    0        0        1
No. of days port closed (by wave disturbances)               25       20        3
Windspeed (m/s) requiring suspend navigation                 20       30       20
Institutional Strengthening
Financial return on expansion investments                  n.a.      >libor   >libor
                                                                     +4%      +4%
13. % new capacity invest'ts w. fm./econ. eval'n.          0%        100%     100%
Lease rate on land (US$/year/squ. meter)                   0.82       0.8      0.95
Number of employees                                        338        270      275
Source: KSSA Project Implementation Unit

18.    Objective 2: To improve environmental conditions by preventing spills,
improving waste reception facilities, and providing necessary disposal facilities and
continuous monitoring of environmental conditions at the port. This objective was
modestly achieved - with a combination of significant improvement in some day-to-day
operations, but almost nothing on the ground physically to cope with the problem of
contaminated dredged materials.
                                             24

        Prevention of spills has been largely achieved, by improving navigational safety,
        redesigning and extending the breakwaters, broadening and deepening the
        entrance channel, training the pilots, protecting the oil terminal from the swell,
        and setting up a permanent well-equipped anti-pollution monitoring and control
        unit. There were only two.oi1 spills in excess of 5 cu. meters in 2008, and again
        in 2009, and they were quickly contained and cleaned up by the three-person team
        that is permanently available from the unit for dealing with any kind of spill.

    0   Improvement of waste monitoring and reception facilities was achieved, without
        having to tap the provision included in the loan. Danish funding supported a port
        waste management plan which included monitoring and collection of ship waste.
        Lithuania, Finland and Denmark financed a program to equip Klaipeda to manage
        oil spills.

    0   Providing necessary disposal facilities for contaminated dredge material was not
        achieved and their continuing absence has become a serious problem for the
        port's main ship repair facility. The various classes of material resulting from the
        dredging undertaken in this project appear to have been satisfactorily handled, in
        accordance with international standards. Progress also appears to have been made
        towards identification of a technically superior and more economical solution, but
        until it is brought to the stage of actual implementation, with requisite budget
        provision, performance on this topic has to be considered a serious shortfall -
        because of the scale of the efforts undertaken to resolve the problem, the
        importance of the issue for the continuing development of the port and some of its
        services, and the deep international concern about the seriously deteriorated state
        of the Baltic Sea.

19.    Although most aspects of the project's objectives were achieved, overall efficacy
i rated modest because of the significant failure to solve the problem presented by the
 s
contaminated materials that will result from the port's necessary dredging operations.

EFFICIENCY

20.      The Economic Rate of Return on the project was estimated at 41% in the original
appraisal, and at 38% now, based on actual construction costs, actual traffic through
2008, and slightly more conservative long-term forecasts than used at appraisal. It is
noteworthy that the deep-draft, long-distance trades (oil, fertilizer and grains) which have
most benefited from project works, showed the smallest impact from the recent recession.
There is also optimism that the general goods and container traffic, which fell sharply in
winter 2008/09 as elsewhere, will recover quite quickly and resume growth. Total
construction expenditures (works and equipment) for the planned project activities that
were carried out (excluding some of the additional dredging eventually undertaken) were
4% less than the appraisal estimate for the original project. Unit values for items such as
savings in shipping costs and the costs of accidents probably increased over the period of
strong economic growth since 1999 and then dropped again sharply in 2008-09, but
appraisal estimates had to be used for lack of updated values and can still be considered
reasonable averages for the varying circumstances. Recognizing the uncertainties,
illustrative figuring shows an ERR on the project of 33% even if benefits from 2009 until
                                             25

the end of the 25-year evaluation period were to turn out as low as half the best estimate.
The eflciency of the project investments is high.

OUTCOME

2 1.    The project was substantially relevant and its efficiency was high. But efficacy is
rated modest because of the significance of the shortfall in dealing with the threat from
contaminated dredge spoil. And the outcome is correspondingly rated moderately
satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

22.     Although the situation may be changing with global warming, Klaipeda still has
the advantage of being the northernmost port in the Baltic Sea with all-year-round ice-
free access. KSSA has displayed a growing maturity in assuming its role as a landlord
port authority, for example:

    0   by adjusting the dredging to ensure equal water-depths to competing private port
        operators, and

    0   by the progress it has made in convincing a major container operator to invest in a
        container terminal in the port.

23.     Given these indications, and the good record KSSA has demonstrated in its
financial management, it can reasonably be expected that the upgraded port installations
will be effectively maintained, and expanded as necessary, to maintain the benefits
accruing from the project. The most serious risks in prospect result from the uncertain
global and regional economic situation, the strongly competitive environment of the north
Baltic and tendencies for the Russian Federation readily to have recourse to measures that
protect its own producers and ports. Risk to development outcome is moderate.

MONITORING & EVALUATION

24.     In Lithuania, the extensive collaboration of Port and Ministry staff with World
Bank staff and a wide variety of consultants on project preparation laid a strong
foundation for an effective system for monitoring project performance. A good set of
indicators (as presented in Table 1-2 of this report), well reflecting the judicious
combination of project objectives and suitable for reliable and timely
collectiodcalculation, was carefully picked through several rounds of choice. Sensible
target values were established. And specific training was given to the PIU on collection
and calculation. M&E Design i therefore rated Substantial.
                                s

25.     The KSSA PIU issued regularly updated reports quarterly about project execution
and KSSA performance trends. The system reliably delivered timely and high-quality
data throughout the nine-year project implementation period. A minor weakness is the
lack of readily available definition and methodology of calculation for two or three of the
more complex indicators - such as estimates of generated traffic, and cost-savings
resulting from accessibility to deeper-draft vessels - where very high recent values raise
                                                 26

    some question about continuing adequacy of estimation bases used. M&E
    Implementation is therefore also rated Substantial.

    26.     The evidence provided by the monitoring indicators proved of value to KSSA and
    Ministry management, as well as to the World Bank, in providing substantive summary
    of the evolving effects of the project. That helped i,nturn to reach sound decisions on
    subsequent directions for the project and reallocations of loan proceeds. The targets, and
    indications of progress toward them, also helped inform and mobilize staff effort. M&E
    Utilization is rated Substantial. Overall, the system designed and the way it was
    maintained and used should be considered a model accomplishment. M&E performance
    is rated substantial.

    BANK PERFORMANCE

    27.     The Bank team was diligent in supporting and advising on technical preparation
    of the project and worked closely throughout preparation with government and port
    counterparts. Lessons learned from earlier Bank lending for ports were taken into
    account, and specialized review and advice obtained as needed. Appropriate attention
    was given to development of local capacities for handling loan and project execution.
    Project objectives and design were well adapted to country needs. Project Quality at
    Entry was satisfactory. Project supervision was thorough and sustained, and great
    dedication and flexibility were demonstrated in trying to help the Lithuanian authorities
    and stakeholders find CDF solutions which could attract sufficient breadth of support to
    be implemented. Project supervision was satisfactory. Bank performance overall is
    therefore rated satisfactory.

    BORROWER PERFORMANCE

    28.     Failure over eight years to build the containment facility agreed in project design,
    or even to make significant progress towards a solution that could command sufficient
    agreement within the country, does represent a serious performance shortfall in
    Government abilities to bring about effective compromise. The Bank team repeatedly
    raised the issue at different levels, provided senior environmental consultants during the
    course of project implementation, and supported KSSA in financing specialized
    consultants under the Loan to help resolve issues. The shortfall was felt more strongly
    because of the contrast with the smooth way in which all other aspects of the project
    moved forward.

     29.     As implementing agency and locus of the PIU, KSSA's performance of all the
     functions for which it was directly responsible reached levels that can only be assessed as
    fully satisfactory. But the performance of the government system as a whole - in
.
     achieving inter-group compromise on this sensitive environmental issue, and in fulfilling
     the related commitments made to the Bank and the region on behalf of the nation - can
     be rated at best only as moderately satisfactory. The overall rating o borrower
                                                                          f
    performance is therefore moderately satisfactory.
                                                 27

Appendix 2: Basic Data Sheet
LITHUANIA - KLAIPEDA PORT PROJECT (LOAN 7014-LT)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                               Appraisal              Actual or              Actual as % of
                                               estimate            current estimate        appraisal estimate
Original commitment                              35.4                  35.4                    100%
Total cancellation
Total project cost                               56.9                  69.45                      122%
Cancellation

Project Dates
                                                        Original                             Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                        11/30/1999                           11/30/1999
Board Approval                                        05/11/2000                           05/11/2000
Signing                                               08/03/2000                            08/03/2000
Effectiveness                                         10/24/2000                            10/24/2000
Closing date                                          09/30/2004                            12/31/2008



Staff Inputs - Time and Costs (Bank Budget Only)
                                                         ActualILatest Estimate
                                 Staff weeks                                          costs us$yooo)
                                                                                      (incl. Travel and
                                                                                      Consultant costs)
Stage of Project Cycle
Lending
         FY95                                                                             91.40
         FY96                                                                             92.84
         FY97                                                                             35.1 1
         FY98                                                                              0.0
         FY99                                                                             83.82
         FYOO                       49                                                   260.88
         FYOl                                                                              1.22
         FY02                                                                              0.94

Sub-total, Lending                                                                       566.21

SupervisionllCR
         FY98                                                                             10.86
         FY99                                                                              0.0
         FYOO                                                                             19.35
         FYOl                       20                                                    88.19
         FY02                       15                                                    68.31
         FY03                       14                                                    69.20
         FY04                       11                                                    58.56
         FY05                       10                                                    83.02
         FY06                        9                                 '3.08
         FY07                        2
                                                                                          30.19
Sub-total, Supervision/lCR          81
                                                                                         500.76
Total
                                                                                       1,066.97
                                      28



TASKTEAMMEMBERS
              (NAMES) TITLE                                       RESPONSIBILITY/
                                                                  SPECIALTY
                                                          IUNIT
Lending

Pedro Taborga          Sr. Transport Economist            ECSSD   Team Leader
Robert Kietlinski      Transport Operations Officer       ECSIE   Operations
Patrick Fourgeaud      Senior Port Operation Specialist   TUDTR   Technical Specialist
Nikolay Chistyakov     Senior Finance Officer             ECSPS   Financial Management
Karina Mostipan        Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS   Procurement
Iwona Warzecha         Sr. Financial Mgmnt Specialist     ECSPS   Financial Management

Supervision/ICR

Michel Audige          Lead Transport Specialist          ECSSD   Transport Specialist
Anders 0. Halldin      Consultant                                 Sr. Environ. Specialist
Richard M. Humphreys   Sr. Transport Economist            ECSIE   Transport Specialist
Henry Kerali           Lead Transport Specialist          ECSSD   Transport Specialist
Cesar A. Queiroz       Lead Highway Engineer              ECSSD   Team Leader
Karina Mostipan        Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSSD   Procurement
Iwona Warzecha         Sr. Financial Mgment Specialist    ECSPS   Financial Management
Graham Smith           Consultant                         ECSPS   Transport Economist
Ross Pavis             Operations Officer                 ECSSD   ICR Team Leader
Michel Luc Dormer      Senior Port Specialist             ETWTR   ICR Author
Marie Laygo            Senior Program Assistant           ECSSD   Project Support
                                              29

Appendix 3: Poland - Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and
Port Modernization Project (Loans 7039-Pol And 7040-
Pol)
SUMMARY

This report assesses the performance of the Polish Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and
Port Modernization Project. The project was supported by two IBRD loans -Nos. 7039-
POL of US$27.5 million and 7040-POL of US$l 1.O million - which were approved on
December 12 2000. The first loan closed on June 30 2006 and the second on June 30
2008, which was three years behind the original schedule.

The project had several development objectives: (a) to promote Poland's maritime trade,
(b) to accelerate the development of Szczecin Port, and (c) to assist in adapting Polish
maritime transport practices to European standards through (i) improving the navigational
safety on the seaway connecting the Szczecin-Swinoujscie port with the Baltic Sea; (ii)
strengthening the function of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority (SSSA) and
(iii) preparing and upgrading the basic infrastructure required by port operators to
develop new operational facilities.

The project comprised two major marine engineering works on the Seaway under the
responsibility of the Maritime Office Szczecin (MOS), beneficiary of Loan 7039, and two
major land and quay developments at Szczecin under the responsibility of SSSA,
beneficiary of Loan 7040. The marine engineering works comprised Repair of
embankments on the 6-kilometer Piastowski Canal in the northern part of the Seaway
(planned cost including contingencies US$29.8 million; actual cost US$21.4 million) and
Rebuilding of the breakwaters at the southern entrance of the canal (planned cost
US$22.7 million; actual cost US$18.0 million). MOS was also expected to build a
containment area for dredge spoil at a cost of US$2.9 million, but it proved impossible
during project implementation to reach agreement among local bodies on appropriate site
and design, and so this work was not undertaken. SSSA's land and quay developments at
Szczecin were built three years later, and on a different scale, than what had been
planned: area for general cargo and containers at Grabowski Island (planned cost
US$11.9 million; actual cost US$33.1 million) and area for bulk cargoes on Katowice
Peninsula (planned cost US$14.5 million; actual cost US$7.4 million).

IEG rates Outcome as moderately unsatisfactory. Project objectives were substantially
relevant in terms of the priorities identified in the Bank's strategies for assisting Poland,
both at the time the loans were made and more recently. Project design was modestly
relevant. Overall traffic volumes were not expected to grow strongly and they have
actually fallen somewhat short of projections. Most of the traditional bulk traffics
through the port fell off more rapidly than had been expected at appraisal, and some new
trades then expected, notably transit traffic for Germany, proved disappointing. But the
port authority, its privatized subsidiaries and a few new investors succeeded in attracting
significant amounts of replacement traffic, often general cargo and container traffics
more remunerative than the diminishing bulks. The improved state of the seaway may
possibly have helped attract some of these traffics, but the port land developments have
                                            30

been too delayed for their effects to be already reflected in trade flows. In terms of
adapting to European standards, navigational safety on the seaway has been improved by
the works undertaken, and SSSA has become a competent, if slow-moving, landlord port
authority. Economic efficiency of the project has suffered particularly from bankruptcy,
and in 2009 final closure, of the Szczecin Shipyard. Its continued output of large vessels
had been considered to be directly dependent on the project's seaway upgrade and was
hence accepted at appraisal as a major part of the benefits reflected in the economic rate
of return (ERR). Our best estimates now indicate a very modest 6-7 percent return to the
overall investment in the project. But the new directions of development emerging from
the port reform and the new traffics, combined with increased central government help to
overcome the lag since 1945 in the region's inland transport infrastructure and economic
development, indicate good possibilities for the ERR to improve in coming years.

The Risk to Development Outcome is rated moderate because of the progress achieved
in development of institutions connected with the port, and the fairly strong pressures in
positive as well as negative directions that are foreseeable on relevant risks.

IEG rates Bank performance as moderately unsatisfactory because of inadequate
reaction or adjustment in response to the risks that piled up during project development.
The project's economic viability depended very heavily (about three-quarters of projected
benefits from the main investment envisaged, in the seaway) on a single company (the
shipyard) quite outside the port's control and in a sector already recognized to carry more
than normal risk, but the limited reference to this in the appraisal and other
documentation raises a question whether the Bank gave as much consideration to the
risks involved as should have been expected. Project implementation and performance
risks were clearly increased when higher Polish authorities decided not to accept any of
the technical assistance agreed between the Bank team and sectoral officials at appraisal,
but there is no evidence that the Bank made any adjustments to project
coverage/objectives or its own staffing provisions in order to compensate for the absence
of the supplementary human resources which had been considered essential. An
important part of the traffic projections stressed in the appraisal - renewal of transit
traffic to and from Germany - proved also much more problematic than was apparently
foreseen, but no measures were taken after appraisal or later to follow up on the matter
and pursue the facilitation and competition issues which appear to have hampered
development of such trade flows.

IEG rates Borrower performance as moderately satisfactory. This reflects the
combination, on the part of the implementing agencies, of good management of the main
assets under their responsibility with very slow action, on the other hand, in managing
development of some of the new works to be financed under the loans. At the higher
government level too, there was, on the one hand, increasing understanding of the special
disadvantages faced by the north-west and the need for help but, on the other hand,
apparent rejection of the technical assistance which should have helped significantly in
securing a better project execution.
                                                   31

Principal Ratings: Poland: Szczecin-Swinoujscie
Seaway and Port Modernization Project (Loans 7039-
POL and 7040-POL)

                          ICR'                      ICR Review'                      PPAR
Outcome                   Moderately                Moderately                     Moderately
                          Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
Risk to
Development               Moderate                  Moderate                        Moderate
Outcome

Bank                      Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    Moderately
Performance                                                                         Unsatisfactory

Borrower                  Moderately                 Moderately                     Moderately
Performance               Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   Satisfactory


* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department.
The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the
ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
Project                        Task ManagerILeader           Division Chief/        Country Director
                                                             Sector Director
Appraisal                          Graham Smith                Eva Molnar             Basil Kavalsky
 Completion                        Michel Audige              Motoo Konishi               Orsalia
                                                                                      KalantzoDoulos
                                            32.

BACKGROUND

1.      Poland's active relationship with the World Bank started at the end of the 1980s,
and still continues. The transport sector was one of the focal points of cooperation from
the start. In part this reflected the huge change in the country's transport needs that was
likely to ensue from the shift towards a market economy: much increased importance of
international trade (it has in fact grown from the equivalent of some 50 percent of GDP in
1990 to 80 percent in recent years), geographically wider trade relations with expansion
particularly in countries to the west and the north, and very large needs in terms of
developing the institutions and the physical infrastructure that would be able to respond
to the changed patterns of transport demand. A first major loan in support of transport
development was committed in 1990. Focused discussion of the measures needed to
modernize the country's ports began in 1992.

2.       The Bank worked closely with the Polish government on the development of new
institutional structures for the ports sector that would decentralize management and
stimulate constructive competition in provision of services. The government favored the
concept of landlord port authorities, which would carry responsibility for planning and
regulation, but directly provide only the basic infrastructure, leasing it out to private-
sector operators to build the necessary superstructure and offer services to vessels. Local
governments were also expected to become active participants and shareholders in the
new port authorities. The Bank contributed to the drafting of the reform legislation,
which was enacted late in 1996. In the same year it approved a first loan to the country's
port sector, helping to finance urgently needed improvements in access to the main ports
(especially by road) and to provide assistance in introduction of the new management
structures and policies.

3.       To reinforce Polish port sector reform efforts, the Ministry of Transport and the
Bank had been working since 1994 to design a modernization program to bring existing
facilities of the country's major ports to the level of efficiency needed to take full
advantage of the new policy framework. In the end the only port which decided to seek a
Bank loan was Szczecin-Swinoujscie, on the country's western border with Germany,
handling at the time nearly 40% of the country's port traffic, a little more than the
country's other principal port, at Gdansk 300 kilometers to the east. Swinoujscie is
situated directly on the sea, at the mouth of the Swina River. The port in Szczecin is 65
kilometers inland on the Oder River, with passage down the connecting seaway taking
four hours. This port complex serves the most important industrial areas of the country,
such as Upper Silesia, the region of Wroclaw and Poznan. It was also considered to have
significant future potential for serving important parts of Germany, as had been the case
before 1945.

4.      A much appreciated early investment under the Bank's 1996 port loan had been
installation of a modern vessel communication and traffic control system on the
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway. The physical upgrade now proposed to complement that
investment went through several iterations to optimize its design and examine possible
advantages of phasing the work. Both breakwater walls, east and west, were needed
simultaneously to reduce the crosscurrents and turbulence that could drive ships off
course as they enter the canal. Studies also showed that postponement of slope
rehabilitation on less damaged sections of the embankment was economically inferior to
                                                    33

completion of the full job in one go. The landlord authority responsible under the 1996
legislation for activities within the port was an extremely new body, and the Bank gave
extensive advice on joint planning with the private sector and preparation of detailed
work schedules.

OBJECTIVES & COMPONENTS

5.      The project development objectives as written in the Loan Agreement were to: (a)
promote Poland's maritime trade, (b) accelerate the development of Szczecin port, and
(c) assist in adapting Polish maritime transport practices to European Union standards
through: (i) improving the navigational safety on the seaway connecting the Szczecin-
Swinoujscie port with the Baltic Sea, (ii) strengthening the functions of SSSA, and (iii)
preparing and upgrading the basic infrastructure required by port operators to develop
new operational facilities. The Project Appraisal Document presented the project more
as a further stage in the reform process already assisted and hence gave heavier emphasis
to implementation of the landlord-port concept and facilitation of private-sector
involvement in port operations. IEG finds the Loan Agreement objectives more specific
and will refer mainly to them.

6.       The Bank provided two loans in support of the project. The larger one, for major
upgrading of the seaway, was made to the central government for use by its Maritime
Office Szczecin (MOS), responsible for major coastal infrastructures in the western part
of the country. The smaller one, to assist with development of infrastructure within the
port for subsequent lease to private operating companies, was made to SSSA. Covering
first the MOS part of the project and then the SSSA portion, Table 2-1 lists the project
components, their costs as foreseen at appraisal, and actual expenditures on them under
the project. It also shows the planned and actual sources of finan~ing.~

7.      Physical rehabilitation of the Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway was the principal item
in the MOS part of the project, to maintain the depth of 10.5 meters to which it had been
deepened in the early 1970s. Degradation of the installations over time combined with
expected rising traffic trends raised fears about deteriorating safety. The largest
expenditure would be on repair and upgrading of the slope protection on the
embankments of the Piastowski canal (some 6 kilometers in length), in the northern part
of the Seaway. In addition, the breakwaters at the southern entrance of the canal (from
the Szczecin Lagoon) no longer protected passing ships from transverse currents and
needed almost complete rebuilding.         .


8.    To serve the port and the community as a whole rather than merely the seaway, a
new containment area for contaminated dredged materials was to be established, to
supplement the dumping sites which had been used in the past. Using its own funds,

  Both the loans provided by the Bank were denominated in Euros. Since the Euro strengthened
substantially over the ensuing years, disbursements in dollar terms were greater than expected despite
portions of both loans being canceled. The fact that the loans were denominated in Euros while Polish
accounting is done, naturally, in Zlotys also makes it difficult to produce very accurate tables of actual
costs in US dollars, for comparison with figures from the original appraisal report. We have aimed mainly
at having the needed currency conversions carried out at the rates prevailing when the expenditures
incurred took place. This should generate figures as comparable as possible with those for investments that
were being carried out in dollars over the same period elsewhere.
                                             34

MOS was also to secure technical assistance and training on improved dredging
methods, especially the separation of potentially contaminated material from the rest.

9.      The SSSA portion of the project consisted of land and berth development in two
specific areas of Szczecin port to attract private operators to provide and operate more
specialized and modern facilities than were presently available in the port for handling
different traffics:

    0   The Katowice Peninsula was to be prepared for provision of cargo handling,
        storage and packaging facilities mainly for industrial bulks. Some 500 meters of
        new berths were to be provided, and extensive amounts of land leveling and slope
        protection were to be undertaken.

    0   Grabowski Island was to be prepared in a similar way for concentration mainly on
        general cargo (such as food products, paper, and steel products) and containers.
        Some 230 meters of new berths would be provided, slope protection strengthened
        elsewhere and improvements made in road and rail access.

10.     Total costs of the project were to be divided about 50/50 between the Bank and
the Polish authorities, with the port authority paying most of the local costs for
infrastructure development within the port. The central government would make
substantial contribution for the Seaway Rehabilitation, without expecting to be able to
recover the costs from users, at least in the short term.

1 1.    While expenditures for the Seaway Rehabilitation proceeded largely as expected,
plans changed substantially for the development of the new areas within the port, as
indicated by the table. As explained below (para. 16 ff.), costs of this work turned out to
have been severely underestimated, while the port authority's capacities to undertake new
investments were curtailed due to substantial expenditures unexpectedly required at
Swinoujscie in 2001.

12.     The eventual outcome was to concentrate new development effort on Grabowski
Island, tripling the spending that had previously been envisaged there, and concentrating
it toward supporting improved service for container traffic. Spending on Katowice
Peninsula was halved. Overall project costs were kept close to originally planned levels
by this cut-back and significant savings by MOS on the seaway contracts. In addition,
the financial load on the public authorities for the project as a whole was halved thanks to
the readiness of the European Union to support Grabowski Island developments when
Poland became a member. Availability of the EU financing also permitted Poland to
cancel $5.4 million equivalent of the loan support committed by the Bank.

IMPLEMENTATION

13.     Bidding and contracting for the main marine civil works contracts in the MOS
part of the project proceeded expeditiously. But serious problems arose in final financial
                                           35

 Table 2-1: Poland - Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway and Port Modernization Project:
 Cost by Component (in US$mln. equiv.) and Financing (Compiled from Finance
 Depts, MOS and SSSA)
 Project Component                             Appraisal   ActualLat-     Percentage
                                               Estimate    est Estimate   of Appraisal
                                               (US$ mln)   (US$ mln.)         (%I
  Seaway Rehabilitation
      Slope Protection, Piastowski Canal   I     25.0         21.4           86
I Embankments                              I
I     Breakwaters Rebuilding               I     18.6         18.0           97




                                                              39.9           72
                                                      36



settlement for the reinforcement works to the banks of the Piastowski Canal on the
Seaway between Swinoujscie and Szczecin. Six months before the end of the contract,
the international contractor submitted bills for stones it had placed in excess of quantities
specified in the design. MOS states that it had all along been agreed that it would accept
these deviations from specifications but with the clear understanding that it would not
pay for the additional quantities since they were necessary only as a substitute for the
better under-water measuring techniques that the contractor should have been using to
keep quantities in line with specifications. At the same time, the contractor began to
refuse categorically to install larger stones on half a dozen stretches of between 20 and 30
meters in length where the Contract Engineer had caught him installing stones below the
size required, which would therefore be less resistant to stronger currents.

 14.    Unsuccessful in achieving any progress through direct negotiations, MOS decided
to submit the issues to arbitration. From the technical advice and comments that they
heard, they were quite confident of the validity of their position. The arbitrators held
hearings in Poland, which also seemed consistent with what MOS had expected. Several
months later a meeting of the arbitrators was held in Copenhagen. It ruled largely against
the Polish position, and required MOS to pay more than 17 million Zlotys (more than
US$6 million) to the contractor, without any right of appeal other than to a Danish court
of law. The MOS staff felt that the decision was very unfair, and the Bank's ICR states
that the Bank team on the project agreed that the proceeding was "overtly biased".

15.    MOS staff draw the lesson that arbitration following the rules of UNCITRAL
(UN Commission on International Trade Law) needs some amendments to be surer of
producing sound results. The group of three arbitrators (one selected by each side in the
dispute, with the third chosen jointly by the first two) lacked any kind of institutional
back-up and simply disappeared after announcing their decision. MOS believes it would
be more satisfactory to use an arbitration court, and that is the way it is thinking of
moving when it contracts the next phase of works on the Seaway.6

16.      The Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaport Authority ran into serious difficulties in letting
its land development contracts, with the problems exacerbated by quite extraneous,
unexpected events in 200 1 that put its finances under stress. Benefiting from a right to
first refusal, SSSA had little choice but to purchase the functioning ferry terminal in
Swinoujscie at a cost of nearly 200 m Zlotys (US$ 50 million at the exchange rate then
prevailing). In the same year the port was also unexpectedly obliged to spend 60 m
Zlotys on urgent modernization of the G6rnikow quay in Swinoujscie Merchant Port.
These events meant that the Port Authority was really not in a position to commit to the


6
  Use of such a three-person group, and applying the UNCITRAL rules, was one of the recognized ways of
proceeding in dispute resolution when the loan was signed. A 2005 revision of the Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents gave reinforced emphasis to the advantages of using such a three-person Dispute
Review Board to obtain quicker and less costly resolution of problems than likely by other means.
Nonetheless, the Bank has certainly never ruled out the alternative of referral of a dispute to an institution
agreed between both sides in a dispute for more formal arbitration.
                                             37

contract prices some 50% above appraisal estimates that emerged early in 2002 from the
bidding for the land development contracts under the Bank-assisted project.

17.     A lengthy argument arose at this time between the Bank and the port authority on
the interpretation of the bidding results. The authority's staff analyzed the offers
received, identified the low bidder, secured the approval of their Board, and announced
the result. Upon reviewing the documents, however, the Bank staff concerned - and,
through two appeals, the Operations Procurement Review Committee - took the position
that this bidder's failure to have clearly stated in his bid summary the early date by which
he proposed to complete the works meant that he had to be penalized with the assumption
that he would take the maximum of the range of durations allowed. This in turn meant
that another company which had offered a higher cash price (but with firm delivery at the
minimum of the allowed range of durations) became the lowest evaluated bidder.

18.      The Polish side continues to believe that it was unreasonably legalistic and
bureaucratic of the Bank to disregard (as not legally binding) the chart (in the appendix to
the offer by their preferred bidder) which gave specific dates for start and finish of the
works that were clearly consistent with the shorter time period. Today, nearly a decade
later, the importance of the complaint probably lies above all in illustrating the scale of
the impact that such disputes can have on development programs, raising the question
whether and how much such broader implications should be taken into account at the
time of formulating the Bank position in such a dispute. Please see the discussion in
paras. 6.15 - 6.18 of the main report in this PPAR.

19.     After some six months of exchanges on this bid interpretation problem and on
appropriate ways to proceed, Poland finally decided in autumn 2002 to go for rebidding,
on a substantially changed project. The port authority staff concerned would have
preferred rebidding with less changed design, as would have been permitted with use of
Polish bidding rules which allow the investor to cancel a bidding procedure if all offers
received are in excess of his announced budget for the job, and to proceed immediately to
rebidding. This was not acceptable to the Bank although it was the case that all bids had
been substantially in excess of the appraisal estimates, seemingly much more so than
could have been explained simply by general inflation.

20.     The port authority went back to the drawing board and, taking account of recent
trends and prospects in the different traffic groups, it gradually developed a revised
investment plan. Responding to the more rapid than expected growth in container traffic,
the new plan gave strong priority to the Grabowski Island development, with focus
further increased toward attracting a major container operator there. To accelerate
progress toward the eventual objective, SSSA also undertook in 2003 some of the
preliminary earth-moving and other work required, using its own resources. For the
Katowice Peninsula, the major expenditure that had been planned on new berths was all
put off to a second stage envisaged for 20 10-12, while initial effort would be
concentrated on road access improvement and extensive land preparation.

2 1.    A further important factor, which had been gradually coming into view and turned
into a real prospect when Poland's accession to the EU was firmly scheduled for May
2004, was the possibility of attracting substantial grant assistance, particularly for the
Grabowski Island project, from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). In
                                            38

mid-2005, agreements were finally signed with ERDF and the World Bank for what was
a path-breaking initiative (and still appears not to have been replicated) for joint
financing. Given the way Poland had developed the project, jointly with the Bank, the
EU readily accepted use of World Bank bidding procedures. The EU funds reduced the
financing load on both SSSA and the Bank, with a part of the loans being cancelled.

22.     Construction contracts for both Grabowski and Katowice projects were finally
signed in May 2006, four years beyond intentions at appraisal but perhaps with a design
better adapted to real prospects of attracting users, and certainly with a lower financial
burden on SSSA. Benefiting from the work already undertaken by the port authority,
construction was completed relatively quickly, in 2007 for the reduced work at Katowice
and in February 2008 on Grabowski Island. The final closing date on the World Bank
financing was June 30 2008, three years later than originally intended, the same as the
delay in delivery of the new quays. EU, and the Polish government authorities in
Warsaw responsible for the management of the ERDF and other Cohesion funds, indicate
strong satisfaction with the smooth way the joint investment proceeded (despite some
cost overruns, which they helped to cover) and the sound quality of the works
accomplished.

23.     In many ways the most difficult implementation experience was with the
Containment Area for Contaminated Dredged Materials (in the MOS portion of the
project), due to the unusually wide variety of parties among whom explicit consensus was
required and to fears about potential citizen complaints regarding its design and siting. It
had been envisaged as a comparatively small investment, but a great amount of high-level
time has been spent on trying to overcome bureaucratic and political obstacles. On the
other hand, the delays have not really had very serious or wide negative effects because
dredging has been carefully controlled. No physical work on the planned containment
was in the end undertaken under the project, but much was learned that helped to identify
potentially superior solutions that were at advanced stages of consideration by November
2009.

RELEVANCE

24.     The project's objectives are written differently in the Project Appraisal
Document, Loan Agreement and Implementation Status and Results Reports, but they
generally emphasize improvements in the physical facilities, private sector involvement,
safety, and promoting maritime trade. These objectives were relevant at the inception of
the project and remain so today. The project was designed specifically to complete and
complement the earlier Port Access and Management Project in support of the major
port-sector reform developed with Bank advice and enacted in 1996. The aim was to
assist application in Szczecin-Swinoujscie of the landlord-port institutional model
introduced by the reform, and to do it in a manner directly related to cooperation with the
private sector for the development of facilities and service to ships - a central thrust of
the model. The project was thus directly in line with major emphases of the 1999
Country Assistance Strategy on increasing private-sector participation in infrastructure
and more generally sustaining private-sector growth by strengthening regulatory
frameworks. The project is also highly consistent with the thrusts of the new Country
Partnership Strategy issued by the Bank in 2009, which continues to stress reforms to
                                             39

accelerate private-sector growth and increases emphasis on transport sector
improvements. The relevance of the project objectives is therefore substantial.

25.      The assistance was also structured in a notably relevant way, with the distinction
between the larger loan direct to central Government for the seaway upgrading and the
smaller loan, not through the Ministry but direct, to the new Port Authority, for the work
it would be doing as a landlord for private operators of port services. The extent of
cooperation provided to the various Polish agencies involved, both old and new, seems
generally to have been appropriate although it might have been possible sometimes to
secure more timely action by more foresight or greater use of experienced consultants, as
for instance in identifying policy and institutional obstacles discouraging particular
traffics' use of the port and pursuing practical solutions, or assisting with the
concessioning for the container terminal on Grabowski Island. Project design was thus
modestly relevant. And overall, the relevance o objectives and design is rated
                                                  f
substantial.

EFFICACY

26.     The PDO indicators at completion, the original target values, baseline values and
actual values at the time of the PPAR mission are shown, to the extent they are available,
in Table 2-2. Achievement against each objective, as written in the Loan Agreement, is
assessed as follows:

(a)      To promote Poland's maritime trade. The improvements of the access seaway
have increased navigational safety, lowered transit time, and significantly reduced bank
erosion by waves from passing vessels, although somewhat more supplementary work
than intended may be required when the further deepening that will probably be needed is
undertaken. PDO Indicators 8-10 and 14-15 are consistent with these statements, but also
record the continuing absence of capacity for safe storage of contaminated dredge spoil.
Overall port traffic (PDO Indicator 1) was not projected to show much growth and has in
fact fallen short, but container traffic (PDO Indicator 4) and transit traffic (Indicator 3)
have strongly outperformed projections, reflecting parts of the transformation that the
port has successfully started - away from traditional bulks, which are steadily
diminishing, to new more modern traffic patterns, with much higher element of the (more
profitable) general cargo. In 2008 Szczecin-Swinoujscie was again the port handling the
largest tonnage in the country, even though its share has diminished (to the advantage of
Gdynia) since 1999. But it is important to recognize the difficulties the port has faced,
greater than appreciated in the appraisal report, in redeveloping traffics from earlier (pre-
Cold War) epochs. This is well illustrated by the case of transit traffic to and from
Germany. The report had emphasized the proximity of Berlin (only 140 kilometers from
Szczecin), availability of the good inland water link that had been modernized in the
1930s and the likelihood of Poland's accession to the EU, as indeed occurred in 2004.
But total traffic rose only from some 600,000 tons per year in 2002-03 (earliest years for
which figures are available) to about 800,000 tons in each of the last three years. The
growth was almost entirely in the grain trade and coal, using barge services. The more
valuable general cargo trade which should have benefited most from the closer trade
relationships actually fell from some 400,000 tons per year in 2002-03 to well under
300,000 tons (mostly paper and steel by barge, some grain by truck) per year in 2007-08.
Given the contribution that the project was expected to make to establishment of new-
                                                              40

     model port authorities, it is perhaps unfortunate that no indicators were included to reflect
     SSSA's overall performance, but the authority has continuously delivered satisfactory
     financial results. Overall, this objective should be considered modestly achieved.

     (b)     To accelerate the development of Szczecin Port. The port authority has
     unfortunately not been able to provide reliable information on progress in respect of PDO
     Indicators 11-13 and 16 to help in assessing fulfillment of this objective. But the port has
     made much greater progress than other Polish ports in privatizing the many and varied
     service subsidiaries inherited from the integrated structure that had been established by
     the communists in 1950. Those privatized port companies, other commercial companies
     which had been attributed some of the lands contiguous with those for which SSSA is
     responsible, and a few companies that are newcomers to the port environment have
     together been the main forces reacting to the sharp declines of traditional bulks and
     developing the new replacement traffics that have been beginning to emerge. Project-
     supported development of infrastructure in areas previously little developed has been
I Table 2-2: Poland:      Szczecin-Swinoujscie Port Project: Summary of the PDO Indicators: Original                I
 Indicator                                           1999                 2004                    2008 (PPAR)




 13. Total annual private investment in port         n.a.
 Objective 3:Adapt Polish maritime practices to
 European Union standards
 14.Piastowski Cana1:Navigation Incidents              1            0              0          0                 1
 (number
 15.Piastowski Canal Maintenance Costs ( Z1. .a,)   1.4 mln                      0.2 mln                     07
 16. Ave. ship service time in port(hrs./vessel)     51.7          49.0                                      51.7




     7
      The absence of maintenance expenditures in this year reflects not budgetary stringencies but lack of need
     for interventions in this particular year.
                                                   41

much delayed compared with expectations and more limited in coverage, but the road
developments have assisted some of the new traffics at least since 2007, and the new
berth development completed in 2008 will have important effect in the coming years.
This should be the case in particular with the container terminal to be established on
Grabowski Island by Drobnica Port Szczecin (now owned by Deutsche Bahn, the
German railways) under a 30-year concession which was confirmed at the highest levels
in November 2009 and should move into full operation, with establishment of two rail-
mounted gantry cranes, before June 2010. The ICR expressed some worry about
maintenance of sufficient competition, especially for general cargo and containers, in the
coming years, but competing stevedores (companies dealing with loading and unloading
of ships) operating in the port do have considerable experience handling most of the
trades. The concession to Drobnica, while not imposing any requirements for approval of
prices to shippers, does provide for penalties payable in the event the company misses
agreed minimum traffic targets. This objective is therefore rated as modestly achieved to
date, with the facilitation of private investment and eventual progress in getting projects
actually started. And there are good prospects of reaching a more adequate level of
achievement in the years to come.

(c) To assist in adapting Polish maritime transport practices to European Union
standards. Performance has ranged from good to weak across the three specific
dimensions focused in this objective. Navigational safety of the seaway has been
significantly improved by rehabilitation of the breakwaters at the southern entrance of the
Piastowski Canal, sheltering vessels from strong, irregular cross-currents encountered at
the junction of the Canal with the Zalew Szczecinski lagoon. SSSA has strengthened
gradually over the first ten years of its life and is now a competent landlord port
authority, if somewhat slow in action and perhaps less agile commercially than some of
its rivals in the Baltic or elsewhere in the EU. Performance in the upgrading of basic
infrastructure (and adoption of more satisfactory measures for dealing with contaminated
dredge spoil) has been particularly ponderous and slow. Taking all three areas together,
this objective should be considered modestly achieved.

27.      The appropriate overall rating in respect o eficacy is clearly one of modest
                                                      f
achievement ofproject objectives. In assigning this rating, it is nonetheless important to
recognize that SSSA has faced a more difficult regional environment than was recognized
in the Bank's appraisal report. The report had expressed high hopes, for instance, for
development of transit trade to and from Germany. Freight forwarders and logistics
specialists knowledgeable about the situation attribute the very weak growth of this
transit trade to poorly coordinated and inconsistent rules and conditions for trade,
taxation and customs, and to systematic efforts by German producers and transporters, at
least in the eastern part of the country, to use national facilities. An example of the
alleged distortions of the first type is that importers through German ports have had
automatically 45 days to pay VAT, compared with 10 days at Polish ports.' Examples of
the second type are huge discounts allegedly offered by the German railways (Deutsche
Bahn) for shipment of iron ore from Rostock to Eisenhiittenstadt and of paper from

 There are some indications that well established Polish importers have by now been able to overcome this
discouragement to use of Polish ports, by pre-clearing electronically at Hamburg but landing the goods at
Szczecin or another Polish port, still retaining the 45-day leeway obtained at Hamburg for payment of
VAT.
                                            42

Schwedt to the port of Rostock or Hamburg, two trades which used to pass through
Szczecin, at far shorter overland distances.

28.     Another problem for Szczecin-Swinoujscie is the relative weakness of its inland
road and rail links compared, for instance, with those of Klaipeda. The only existing
multi-lane highway connection is the autobahn that was built to Berlin in the 1930s. In
the circumstances of the Cold War, this frontier area between east and west had low
priority for infrastructure investment compared with other areas more centrally placed
within east or west, or East Germany's own link with the sea at the then new port of
Rostock.

29.     The dual-carriageway express road to the south that has since been planned, the
Polish S3, is only gradually getting built; its absence is the more keenly felt because of
the large modal shift of freight transport from rail to road that has come throughout the
former Soviet Bloc with the shift to a market economy. Modernization of the ship-lift
linking the Oder and the Havela, critical for expanding the capacity of the inland water
transport link, is underway but much delayed, and is now scheduled for completion only
in 2014. But the region's rail infrastructure is also not strong. The most important
railway line, via Zielona Gora, is limited for much of its length to speeds of 40 kph, and
envisaged for major upgrade only after 2014.

30.     The central government in Warsaw recognizes these inherited problems of the
country's northwest region and promotes efforts to overcome them. It gives strong
support to mounting a joint program with the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary for
development of the multi-modal Central European Corridor down the Oder and Neisse
rivers, helping to attract more southbound traffic from overcrowded western European
routes. It strongly supports the EU-led effort to bring trade formalities among member
countries bordering on the Baltic to the same simple level by 2012 as would apply if the
Baltic Sea were entirely internal to the European Union. The Ministry of Transport is
seeking EU support for development of a Klaipeda-Swinoujscie `motorway of the sea'
route (with regular Ro-Ro ferry service) to reduce the volumes of freight traveling by
road between the Baltic States and Poland.

EFFICIENCY




Project Components                         Appraisal ERR CompletionERR
Szczecin-Swinoujscie Seaway (MOS)              19%          0.7%
Katowice Peninsula Bulk Cargo area (SSSA)      44%         101.7%
Grabowski Island General Cargo area (SSSA)     22%          17.7%
Weighted Average for Whole Project             29%          13%
                                              43

32.     The numbers now available are not sufficiently more reliable than those used at
ICR to warrant detailed recalculation of the rates of return. But the rates estimated have
been reassessed, taking into account the detailed project costs (Table 2-1 above) that
became available for the first time as a result of the IEG mission, as well as developments
since the ICR estimates were made.

33.     The resultant best estimate of economic rate of return on the whole project is
about 6-7%. The main factor bringing down the return on the Seaway investment from
the level projected at appraisal is loss of the benefits that had been attributed to the
continued production of larger vessels that it was believed the project would make
possible at the Szczecin shipyard. The probable permanency of this loss has now
unfortunately been confirmed, with cessation of all shipyard operations in the middle of
2009 and recent moves toward auctioning of the facilities individually for any purpose -
and considered most unlikely to be production or repair of deep-draft vessels.

34.     The very high rate of return estimated in the ICR for the comparatively small
investment in the Katowice Peninsula appears to stem from some misunderstanding of
what has so far happened there. Annual traffic volumes have changed little since 2005,
and the only benefit that they could have drawn from investment so far undertaken would
be some savings in vehicle operating costs due to the upgrading of the access road in
2006. Prospects for a satisfactory return on the third of total project investment finally
devoted to Grabowski Island have, on the other hand, strengthened with confirmation of
the concession agreement and mobilization of the concessionaire. But the further delay
and the effort needed to build up traffic to the optimistic levels that were projected may
lower the rate of return.

35.     Szczecin-Swinoujscie dependence on redeveloping broader regional relations, and
the progress that has already been made in initiating that transformation, indicate that
economic returns to the investments made could improve substantially in coming years.
The disappointing present estimates underline, above all, the importance of attracting
more traffic, by combined effort of the port's private-sector intermediaries, the port
authority, and central ministries responsible for policies affecting transport, trade and
regional development. At this time, eflciency of the project has to be rated modest.

OUTCOME
36.    Overall relevance is rated substantial. The efficiency of project investment is,
however, modest. Efficacy in the achievement of project objectives is also rated modest,
Overall project outcome at this point is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
 37.     On the Seaway there is moderate risk that the Government will not make the
necessary provisions for continuous monitoring and upkeep of the structures as improved
under the project. In the port, the most important risk is that the private participation and
international cooperation secured for the port may not have the stamina, patience and
openness to competition that will be necessary to overcome the many obstacles that arise
in redevelopment of the substantial role that the port complex could come to play again,
just as it did in the pre-1945 context. Given that the mostprobable threats seem to be of
                                              44

these two types, also generating signijkant countervailing forces, it is reasonable to rate
the risk to development outcome as moderate.

MONITORING & EVALUATION

Design

38.      The ICR for the Polish project states that project monitoring was based on
indicators confirmed during appraisal and on the Project Implementation Plan prepared
by the borrowers and agreed during negotiations. But there is no evidence that their
collectability was ever tested. As reflected in Table 2-2 of this report, about half were
broad traffic indicators and the other half related more precisely to effects expected from
the project investments. Baseline (1999) values were given for almost all, and targets for
most, but only for the expected year of project completion (2004). Potential utility of the
traffic targets was limited by their being too broad and therefore not indicative of
progress on the specific possibilities that had been foreseen and hence needed keen
pursuit. Surprisingly, for what was intended to be an exemplary new-style port authority,
no indicators were included for company financial performance. The achievement in
M&E Design has to be rated negligible.

Implementation

39.      In Poland, responsibility for reporting on the indicators lay with the
implementation agencies, SSSA and MOS. MOS reported in a timely manner, and quite
systematically, on most of the key indicators agreed with regard to seaway operations.
Reporting on traffic and port operations appears to have presented greater difficulties,
exacerbated in some cases by continuing uncertainties or inadequacies in definition. As a
result, figures have never been provided for actual values of nearly half of the indicators
that had been chosen, while those on the others that were given in periodic reports were
seldom up-to-date or reliable enough to be of much value. The achievement in M&E
Implementation can at best be rated very modest.



Utilization

40.     The M&E shortcomings described must have made it difficult for the Polish
program managers and the concerned Bank staff to retain appropriate focus on intended
project impacts. The ICR does not discuss utilization of the monitoring system and data.
While progress on loan disbursements, and measures to accelerate lagging components
were given a great deal of attention by the Bank at certain times, there is little evidence of
broader follow-up to cover the fundamental objectives of the project, and means of
reinvigorating traffic growth. The weakness of the M&E system may bear some of the
responsibility. The achievement in M&E utilization is negligible.

4 1.    In sum, the indicators were not very well chosen either from the standpoint of
relevance to the key issues that needed pursuit nor from that of feasibility of reliable
collection and presentation. Inadequate effort was devoted to training the team that
would be responsible for the work. It has not been possible to find evidence of the
                                             45

system, such as it was, contributing usefully to the key decisions that had to be made.
Achievement on the score of M&E must therefore be rated negligible.

BANK PERFORMANCE

42.     The quality at entry was technically sound and there had been ample preparation.
The project was part of a two-phase program and followed directly upon the successful
Port Access and Management Project. A comprehensive environmental assessment was
carried out and an Environmental Action Plan prepared. Procurement and financial
assessments were satisfactory, and continuous dialogue with the Government at the local
and national level had created a strong collaborative spirit and shared objectives. On the
other hand, the Bank seems to have given quite inadequate weight, in its planning and
reactions, to two significant risks that were visible at the time the loan was approved: (a)
the very heavy dependence of the project's economic viability (three-quarters of the
benefits calculated for the Seaway investment) on a single company, the Szczecin
Shipyard, in a field already recognized to carry more than normal risks, and (b) the
apparent refusal of the Polish authorities to accept any of the technical assistance which
had been agreed between the Bank's appraisal mission and SSSA and the Ministry of
Transport. Despite the long technical and political preparation, Quality at Entry was
moderately unsatisfactory.

43.     More adequate recognition of these risks could have been expected to lead to
more thorough supervision and back-up efforts from staff in the Bank offices in
Washington and Warsaw to support the Polish actions in implementation of the loan.
And they should have ensured enhanced attention to the issues of hinterland and strategy
definition for attraction of new traffics, and identification of obstacles - to compensate
for the serious uncertainties surrounding both the shipyard deeper-draft traffic and transit
shipments from and to Germany.

44.      Partly for lack of adequate early response to these risks, the Bank's project
supervision effort had to be too much limited to trying to resolve problems that had arisen
such as the procurement mishap for the Katowice/Grabowski works and the many
difficulties encountered by the Polish authorities internally in advancing the CDF. Bank
staff from Warsaw as well as Washington gave helpful support towards solving the
problems, such as suggesting possible alternative paths for resolving the CDF issues,
reviewing new plans for the development of port lands, strongly welcoming the
cooperation from ERDF, and proposing appointment of a Contract Engineer as SSSA
found so useful. Broader port development issues and economic impact continued to
merit more frequent attention than they got. Supervision performance thus also turned
out not more than moderately satisfactory. Bank performance overall is assessed as
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

45. The two implementing agencies - MOS and SSSA - took their responsibilities
very seriously and generally led the larger issues of sectoral development, such as sound
management of the Seaway and effective development of a landlord port authority - in
very constructive and promising directions. MOS handled well the bidding and
contracting for its major contracts and cannot be considered responsible for the
                                             46

difficulties that arose in the arbitration. SSSA has had continuous difficulties in
advancing its development work in a timely way, as in the original bidding, subsequent
redevelopment, fresh contracting of works, and eventual concessioning, for its new berth
and land development on Grabowski Island. The two agencies together successfully
strengthened procedures and controls in such a way as to avoid the spreading of
contaminated sediments or other adverse consequences from dredging, and a better
solution for the longer term than the originally envisaged CDF seems now to be
emerging. The combinedperformance of the two implementing agencies is rated as
Moderately Satisfactory.

46.     Support from the central government has not raised the problems of
indecisiveness noted for the environmental issue in Lithuania, but it has not always been
as strong as needed. A significant part of SSSA's difficulties in the early years appears to
have been due to excessive reluctance on the part of higher levels of government to
permit acceptance of technical assistance - even for such a new and inexperienced body.
More help has been needed from the central ministries too to overcome the inherited lags
of the north-west's economy and to resolve with neighbor countries the trade and
transport facilitation issues obstructing Szczecin's resurrection. Broader government
performance has therefore to be rated only Moderately Satisfactory on this project, and
the same rating applies to borrower performance overall.
                                                47

Appendix 4: Basic Data Sheet
POLAND - SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY AND PORT

MODERNIZATION PROJECT (Loans 7039-pol and 7040-pol)
                                                           Original                            Actual

                                            Appraisal                    Actual or             Actual as % of
                                            estimate                  current estimate       appraisal estimate
Original commitment                             38.5                      41.5                    107.8
Total cancellation                                                         5.4
Total project cost                              81.8                      81.2                      99.0
Cancellation



Project Dates
Board approval                                         12/12/2000                            12/12/2000
Signing                                                12/15/2000                            12/15/2000
Effectiveness                                          03/14/2001                            03/14/2001
Closing date                                           06/30/2005                            06/30/2008




 Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)


Stage of Project Cycle         N" Staff weeks                                       -
                                                                               costs us$yooo)
                                                                         (incl. Travel 8 ConsultantsJ
Lending
          FY94
          FY95
                           I                           I                            2.82
                                                                                    1.61
          FY96                                                                      21.42
          FY97             I                           I                            90.89
          FY98                                                                     191.47
          FY99                                                                     63.85
          FYOO                      42                                             156.93
          FYOI                      14                                              53.80
                  Total:                                                           582.79
SupervisionllCR
         FYOI                        7                                              22.60
         FY02                       19                                              52.75
         FY03                       12                                             40.62
         FY04                        8                                              53.78
         FY05                       12                                              76.46
         FY06                       16                                              54.80
         FY07                       8                                               32.16
         FY08                       14                                              74.06
                  Total             96                                             407.23



                           I                           I
                                                 48

Mission Data - Bank Lending and Imdementation Sumort/SuDervision Process

    Task Team Members                    Title                Unit          Responsibility/
                                                                              SDecialtv
Lending

Marc Juhel                  Port Specialist                  INFTD         Team Leader
Graham Smith                Transport Economist              ECSIN         Transport
Piotr Krzyzanowski          Environmental Expert       I     ECSIN         Environment
Alain Ballereau             Fin. Analyst, Consultant         ECSIN         Fin. Mngt.
Els Hinderdael              Procurement Analyst              ECSIN         Procurement
Robert Kietlinski           Operations Officer               ECSIN         Operations
Iwona Warzecha              Fin. Mngt. Specialist            ECSIN         Fin. Mngt.
Damika Somasundaram         Program Assistant                ECSIN         Project Support

Supervision/ICR

Michel Audige               Ld. Transport Specialist         ECSSD         Prog.Team Leader
Jacques Bure                Sr. Highway Engineer             ECSSD         Team Leader
Ross Pavis                  Operations Officer               ECSSD         ICR Team Leader
Radoslaw Czapski            Operations Officer               ECSSD         Operations
Anca Dumitrescu             Sr. Transport Specialist         AFTTR         Transport Spec't
Piotr Krzyzanowski          Consultant                       ECSSD         Environment
Karina Mostipan             Sr. Procurement Spec't.          ECSPS         Procurement
Iwona Warzecha              Sr. Fin.Mngt. Specialist         ECSPS         Fin. Mngt.
Jung Eun Oh                 Young Professional               ECSSD         Economic Analysis
Barbara Ziolkowska          Procurement Assistant            ECCPL         Procurement
Marie Laygo                 Sr. Program Assistant            ECSSD         Project Support
