Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16468
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 3226-PAK/Credit 2153-PAK)
March 31, 1997
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division
Country Department 1
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency = Pakistan Rupee (PRs)
Rates of exchange:
Appraisal (1990): US$1.00 = PRs21.l
Intervening years (1991-95): US$1.00 = PRs26.8
Completion year (1996): US$1.00 = PRs35.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2.469 acres (ac) = 1 hectare (ha)
1 acre (ac) = 0.405 ha
1 square mile (sq.mi) = 259 ha
1 cu.ft/sec. (cusec) = 0.028 m3/sec
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP         Agricultural Credit Project
ADB         Asian Development Bank
ADBP        Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
CBs         (Participating) commercial banks
ERR         Economic rate of return
FRR         Financial rate of return
FSAL        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOP         Government of Pakistan
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO         Non-govemmental Organization
OECF        Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PBC         Pakistan Banking Council
SBP         State Bank of Pakistan
Vice President:           Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director:          Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division ChiefManager:    Ridwan Ali
Staff Member              Rashid Farugee



Table of Contents                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Preface           ...........................................i
Evaluation Summary ..........................................                                             ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...........................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION  OBJECTIVES ...........................................1
Statement of Objectives ...........................................1
Evaluation of Project Objectives ...........................................2
B. ACHREVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...........................................5
D. PROJECT SUSTA INABILrTY ...........................................7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...........................................7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ...........................................8
G. OUTCOME ...........................................9
H. FUTURE OPERATION ...........................................9
I. LESSONS LEARNED ...........................................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3:  Project Timetable .14
Table 4:         Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6:  Key Indicators .15
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project .16
Table 8A: Project Costs .16
Table 8B:  Project Financing .17
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits .17
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .18
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .26
Table 12   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .27
Table 13:  Bank Resources Missions .28
APPENDICES
A.       Aide-Memoire
B.       Summary of Redesign Proposal
C.    ADBP's Comments on ICR
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 3226-PAK/Credit 2153-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Credit Project, for
which Loan 3226-PAK in the amount of US$148.5 million and Credit 2153-PAK in the amount of
US$1.5 million were approved on June 12, 1990 and made effective on April 12, 1991.
The loan was closed on June 28, 1994, as compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1996. Final disbursement took place on June 28, 1994, at which time a balance of US$84 million was
cancelled. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1996 as scheduled. Final disbursement took place on
October 31, 1996, at which time a balance of SDR 599,281.08 was cancelled. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by the Asian Development Bank, the International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund.
The Implementation Completion Report was prepared by an FAO/CP mission" which visited
Pakistan in August/September 1996. It is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report, legal
documents, supervision reports and project files as well as field investigations and discussions with Bank
staff and officials of the participating institutions. ADBP prepared comments on the draft
Implementation Completion Report.
"   Messrs. K. Selvavinayagam  (Agricultural Credit Officer, Mission leader), M. Sugimura
(Agronomist) and S. De S. Gunetilleke (Institutions Specialist, Consultant).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 3226-PAK/Credit 2153-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
The Bank's support to Pakistan's agricultural credit sector began with Cr.76-PAK for US$27
million in 1965 and reached US$375 million through six Loan/Credits by 1990. The Agricultural Credit
Project (ACP) which is the subject of the present report is the seventh in line.
Project Objectives
The project's objective was to transforn the agricultural credit system into a viable one that
can meet the needs of a growing agricultural sector. It was aimed at (i) expanding credit delivery, with a
new emphasis on assisting women, small farmers (holding below 2.5 ha) and the landless; (ii) establishing a
policy framework to improve the efficiency of financial intermediation and the viability of intermediaries
(iii) providing long term finance for on-lending by banks; (iv) developing institutional capabilities
including improving efficiency of loan supervision and collection.; and (v) supporting deposit mobilization
as part of an effort to strengthen the intermediating capacity of the participating banks. To this end, the
project supported medium and long term lending both by ADBP and the CBs for farm mechanization,
private minor irrigation and other on-farm development; and by ADBP for rural small-scale enterprises. It
also supported the institutional development of ADBP including establishing a credit delivery system for
women, use of group guarantees as collateral, and direct lending to and use of NGOs in lending-related
activities. For CBs strengthening of the supervised credit system was supported. In addition, research on
rural finance and computerization of land records in one district on a pilot basis were financed.
Loan covenants. Special legal covenants that were expected to promote the achievement of
project objectives related to rates of return charged by ADBP and CBs; ADBP loan recovery performance;
and GOP mandated emergency lending by ADBP. All these covenants were violated.
Evaluation of project objectives. Although the project objectives were stipulated in tune
with the financial sector policies of the government, the project fell short of achieving adequate financial
soundness of ADBP and CBs; expanding credit delivery mechanisms, and targeting smallholders, the
landless and women effectively. Assumption of a rise in loan recovery loan rate by ADBP to 80% in three
years appears to be unreliable given the past record of recovery performance. Credit delivery mechanisms
could not expand as the disbursement of US$57 million to the target groups turned out to be overly
optimistic. And, because of the lack of prior experience and clear mandate, ADBP could not effectively
mobilize deposits and thereby channel credit to very small farmers, the landless, and women. Furthermore,
the attempt to safeguard key objectives relating to interest margins and mandated lending through legal
covenants failed due to lack of political will.
ii



Implementation Experience and Results
Over 50% of the Bank Loan was suspended in May 1993 and cancelled in June 1994 due lo
violation of legal covenants. During its limited operation, the project partially achieved its physical
objectives. Achievement of institutional, financial and gender and sector policy objectives was negligible.
Achievement of the two subsidiary objectives (rural financial market study and land record
computerisation) was only partial, but may be substantial by March 1997. There were no macro policy
objectives.
Dipping loan recoveries and marginal savings mobilization have increased ADBP's
dependence on SBP low-cost funding for its operations, and it has failed to become effective and self-
sustaining. On the positive side, ADBP has become the country's largest single lender for agriculture. It
continued financing farm investment resulting in capital formation and greater productivity.
Re-estimated financial and economic rates of retum, though lower than appraisal estimates,
are still attractive. Loan defaults in many cases should therefore be attributed more to lack of willingness,
than the lack of ability, to repay.
Project Sustainability
Neglect of critical measures - such as agricultural interest rates liberalization, strict
enforcement of classification and provisioning guidelines, and discontinuation of emergency lending,
interest remissions, and tolerance of wilful defaults - makes project sustainability unlikely. Most of them
hinge on GOP commitment.
Slow progress in strengthening institutional capability of ADBP and CBs is another constraint
on sustainability. Reform of agricultural credit calls for fundamental changes in ADBP.
Actual Cost and Financing
Actual project cost at completion was PRs.34,429 million (US$1,407 million) as against the
appraisal estimate of PRs.50,269 million (US$2,283 million), a shortfall of 32%. They are not strictly
comparable due to cancellation of over 50% of the original Loans by the Bank and ADB.
The project was financed jointly by the Bank and IFAD, with parallel financing by ADB and
OECF. With the cancellation of US$84 million by the Bank, the Bank and IDA financed about 4.3% of the
actual expenditure compared to 6.6% of project costs at appraisal.
Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Project Objectives
The main factors which hindered achievement of project objectives fall into three categories.
-    Factors not generally subject to GOP control. Natural calamities (e.g. 1992 floods),
and poor demand for sub-loans from small farmers.
-    Factors generally subject to GOP control. Frequent changes in ADBP Chairmen,
restraints on banks setting lending rates, directed ADBP emergency lending without
reimbursement, tolerance of wilful defaulters and interest remission programs,
.i.i



directives to ADBP to reschedule calamnity affected loans, and lax enforcement of
classification and provisioning guidelines.
Factors generally subject to implementing Agencies' control.    Reluctance to
mobilize savings, inappropriate equity and duration for tractor loans, recognition of
unreceived interest income, poor loan recovery and sub-project monitoring, over-
centralised decision-making, and political factors in staff transfers.
Performance by the Bank and Borrower
Bank performance at appraisal was mixed. The true portfolio quality of ADBP and its
worsening loan recovery program were not adequately taken into account. The allocation of about 35% of
the Bank loan for special target groups showed an over-optimistic view of ADBP's institutional
capabilities. This led to the project design's failure to address institutional culture shortcomings.
Inadequate attention was paid to the project's "quality at entry". Difficulties had already
surfaced regarding the politically sensitive interest rate issue. ADBP's poor recovery rates, non-adherence
to prudential regulations, reluctance to mobilize savings, poor quality staff, and weak SBP inspections were
also evident. They should have made the Bank insist on improved ADBP performance and a thorough
audit of its portfolio before deciding to lend.
Of the seven supervision missions fielded, all but the first performed satisfactorily. The first
mission surprisingly rated the project as '1' despite loan recovery performance, a key ingredient of
financial viability, having worsened. Cancellation of the loan by the Bank was inevitable when there was
little hope of project improvement.
On the Borrower's side, despite adequate preparation, project performance suffered due to
lack of GOP conmmitment to implement key policy reforms. ADBP's attempts to give effect to legal
covenants and improve its operations were frustrated by GOP intervention and lax implementation by SBP
of prudential regulations.
Project Outcome
Project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
There were no explicit arrangements about the project's future operation. The Bank has
continued its dialogue with GOP through its involvement in Rural Financial Markets Study and by
undertaking credit sector work. Any new operation will have to recognise the need for:
• integration of rural finance into general financial sector;
* profitability of banks;
* improving debt recovery environment;
* resource mobilization of ADBP;
* discontinuation of blanket rescheduling, interest remission and emergency lending programns; and
* reform of agricultural credit interest rates;
* strong supervisory and regulatory framework.
iv



The main lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(a)  The Bank made a positive contribution to modest improvements in the agricultural
credit delivery system to special target groups and provided long-term funds needed by
ADBP. Nonetheless the project's principal objective of transformiing the agricultural
credit system, though laudable, was too ambitious. The lesson is that the political will
to effect critical changes in areas such as interest rates policy and grant of autonomy
to public sector institution (ADBP) should have been critically appraised.
(b)  A sector specific credit project is a weak instrument for addressing problems of
financial viability and financial intermediation in a sub-sector when the overall banking
system is unsound. The lesson is that a broader financial sector operation like the
ongoing Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project is more appropriate.
(c)  Institutional weaknesses and financial policy deficiencies need to be addressed before
Bank funds are channelled on a major scale.
(d)  The Sixth Agricultural Development Bank Project and the follow-up ACP had
overlapping periods of implementation. This had given less opportunity of learning
from  the experience of implementing the previous project.  The lesson is that
overlapping periods between the previous and the follow-up project are best avoided to
learn from the past.
(e)  It is clear that establishing target loan recovery rates while providing short-term
incentives, if any, is not an adequate response to the underlying problems. While broad
issues impinging on loan operations - liberalizing interest rates, discontinuation of
emergency lending, political conmmitment to punish wilful defaulters were included in
the project design, these needed to be adequately addressed and aggressively pursued in
order to create an environment conducive to healthy lending.
(f)   Government ownership of banks virtually eliminates a proper incentive framework.
Therefore, in an environment such as prevails in Pakistan, serious consideration should
be given to an insistence on privatisation. As this will not be possible in the present
state of ADBP, the government should, in the meantime, provide ADBP full autonomy
in all its operations and allow it to test out the induction of private enterprise to
'manage' in a few branches. Also, the private sector may be invited to set up new
"unit" banks in reasonably prosperous farming areas.
(g)  Unless agricultural/rural credit interest rates are identical to the market-based interest
rates, participation of the commercial banks in any rural credit operation will never
become meaningful.
v



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Ln.3226-PAK & Cr.2153-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Objectives
1.        The Bank's association with Pakistan's agricultural credit sector dates back to June 1965
when a Credit (Cr.76-PAK) in the amount of US$27 million was signed. By the mid-1990s, the Bank's
lending to the agricultural credit sector totaled nearly US$375 million in six Loan/Credits through the
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP). Thus until 1989, Bank lending to the sector was
concentrated on strengthening the operations of ADBP, the major source of agricultural credit in the
country. A follow-up project - the Agricultural Credit Project - which is the seventh in the series, moved
away from supporting a single institution (ADBP) to broadening its coverage to include commercial
banks (CBs) and complement the reform measures pursued under the IDA-financed Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL).
2.        The objectives of the project were to continue to assist the Government in developing a
viable agricultural credit system and to consolidate the gains already made in that direction through
further developments toward financial sector liberalization, establishing a policy framework to improve
efficiency of financial intermediation, progress in increasing competition between banks, developing
institutional capabilities, improving efficiency of loan supervision and collection, expanding their
capability to generate deposits and by providing long-term funds to augment short-term resources. To
this end, the project supported two main components:
(i)  Lending Component. This included medium/long-term lending by ADBP and the
CBs (for farm mechanization, private minor irrigation, livestock, orchards, inland
fisheries and other on-farm development); by ADBP for rural small-scale enterprises
and time-saving technologies, incremental short-term lending (for crop production
and processing, sheep and goat fattening and small-scale enterprises).
(ii)  Institutional Development. For ADBP, it included innovative approaches related to:
(i) establishing a credit delivery system for lending to women through the use of
different types of female credit staff; (ii) use of group guarantees as collateral for
loans where group members (those owning less than 2.5 ha) are jointly and severally
responsible for all loans disbursed; and (iii) direct lending to and use of non-
governmental organizations by ADBP in lending-related activities.
-    For the CBs, the institutional development component included reinforcing their
existent supervised credit scheme.
1



The project was to develop linkages between credit and extension, provide funds for
vehicles and equipment, training, technical assistance, fellowships and study tours
and incremental administrative costs on a declining basis. It also supported research
on agricultural credit nation-wide and the computerization of land records in one
district on a pilot basis.
3.        Project Financing. The project was to be financed by the World Bank (US$149.7 million,
of which IBRD loan was US$148.5 million and the IDA credit was SDR 1.2 million), the Asian
Development Bank (US$150 million), International Fund for Agricultural Development (SDR 19
million), Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) and participating institutions (US$1678.7
million) as well as borrowers (US$279.5 million). Of total project financing (US$2283.2 million), the
share of the World Bank was 6.5%.
4.        Special Legal Covenants. Special legal covenants or agreements that were expected to
promote the achievement of project objectives pertained principally to: (a) rates of return charged by
ADBP and commercial banks; (b) loan recovery performance of ADBP; and (c) emergency lending
mandated by the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and implemented by ADBP. These covenants were
persistently violated.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.        Clarity. The project objectives were in line with the country's and Bank's rural financial
strategy, which sought to promote: (i) consistency of agricultural credit system within the financial
sector policies; (ii) the financial soundness of the participating CBs and the ADBP; and (iii) the setting
up of delivery mechanisms to special target groups, in particular smallholders under 2.5 ha, the landless
and women. These were clearly set down and considered important for the agricultural credit sector.
6.        Realism.  The project lacked realism in not fully assimilating the lessons from the
implementation of the Sixth Agricultural Development Bank Project. With hindsight, it is clear that,
given the deterioration in loan collection, the broad assumption that loan recovery rate of ADBP could
be increased within three years to 80% by June 30, 1993, was highly unrealistic. Another serious gap
was the design of the project to achieve an over-optimistic level of disbursement to special target groups,
amounting to US$57 million (Bank US$36.3 million + IFAD US$20.7 million) accounting for almost
33% of total projected disbursement.
7.        Complexity. Compared to the previous six projects, the Agricultural Credit Project was
more demanding institutionally as: (a) it involved nationalized commercial banks (CBs) in addition to
ADBP as participating credit institutions; (b) it overloaded ADBP with too many initiatives at the same
time. These new initiatives included an increase in the channeling of credit to very small farmers and
women; and deposit mobilization which has not been among ADBP's priorities in the past. The risk that
CBs might be required by GOP to continue subsidizing their agricultural lending, was foreseen at
appraisal. Despite persistent efforts by the Bank, this risk did materialize during the project period.
8.        Risks. The risk of deteriorating loan recovery by ADBP was foreseen at appraisal, and an
action plan to improve recoveries was launched. However, in the absence of a clear commitment of
Federal and Provincial Governments to strengthen financial discipline, the action plan remained only
marginally effective in improving recoveries. The main risk not identified in the SAR was that political
considerations might interfere in the banks' freedom to raise interest rates. The project attempted to
address this risk through legal covenants. In retrospect, a weak political will to take strong needed
2



actions did cause this risk to actually materialize, as evidenced by the continued poor health of ADBP in
particular, and the banking sector in general.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.        Overall Achievement. More than 50% of the Bank Loan was suspended informally in
May 1993, formally in August 1993 and eventually cancelled in June 1994. Project implementation
assessment has therefore been focused on the period up to May 1993. The project has achieved partially
its physical objectives, but negligibly its institutional, financial, gender and sector policy objectives.
There were no macro policy objectives. Two subsidiary objectives (para 18) of the project were only
partially achieved but the prospects for substantial achievement by January 1997 seem bright with the
momentum gained in recent years.
10.       Physical Objectives. A comparative analysis of targets and achievements of lending
volumes and composition as well as deposits growth and distribution shows that achievements fell short
of targets largely because of the premature termination of the Loans by the financing agencies (Bank,
IFAD and ADB) and the reluctance of ADBP to mobilize deposits until late 1996.
11.       Lending Component. Total loan disbursement by ADBP has expanded from PRs 7736
million (97670 loan cases) in FY91 to PRs 7985 million in FY93 (202, 098 loan cases), representing a
nominal growth rate of 1.5% p.a. compared to 16% achieved during FY87-90. Short-term loans have
progressively increased over the period forming 37% in FY93, up by 6% from FY91. By the end of
FY96, it accounted for almost 60%. In contrast, medium and long-term lending has steadily declined by
3% p.a. between FY91-93, reaching nearly 40% by the end of FY96. Relatively better recoveries, a high
proportion of repeat borrowers and easier disbursement mechanism combined with liquidity constraints
have contributed to greater concentration in production (short-term) loans. Moreover, lending targets
fixed by the SBP have also contributed to a higher share of short-term loans in order probably to offset
the decline in production loans by the CBs. Within short-term loans, fertilizer accounted for a high
share; tractor loans predominated among medium and long-term loans, followed by dairy farming and
tubewells.
12.       Analysis of loan disbursement by landholdings in FY95 shows that 64% (58% in FY91) by
numbers of borrowers and 48% (43% in FY91) by amount have holdings of less than 5 ha. A further
22% (21% in FY91) by number and 30% (23% in FY91) by amount have holdings between 5-10 ha.
Average loan balances range from PRs.79205 in FY91 to PRs.39510 in FY93. However, the average
size had jumped to PRs.71785 by FY95. Field observations indicate that the main beneficiaries of
ADBP are less well-to-do farmers.
13.       Deposits Pattern. The breadth of access to ADBP's deposit services is measured by
annual growth in deposits and the number of depositors. Deposits decreased from PRs.3,467 million in
FY91 to PRs.1,064 million in FY93, representing an annual negative growth of 45% in nominal terms.
ADBP has most of its deposits in current account balances (47%) and a modest proportion (13%) in Pls
(profit and loss sharing) savings deposits compared to 20% and 6% respectively in FY91. The decline in
deposits is partly due to its greater concerns for lending than for deposit mobilization. However,
deposits have picked up during the last two years reaching PRs.2093 million by the end of the fiscal year
1996. The bank has recently developed a strategy for deposit mobilization through special branches set
up exclusively for that purpose in selected commercial cities. Initially 25 existing branches have been
earmarked for this exercise, of which five branches are scheduled to start operations in December 1996.
A new syllabus has been drawn up and staff training in commercial banking is to begin soon. A further
3



element of the strategy is to commit 20% of the resources to commercial banking and 80% to
agricultural lending.
14.       Equity and Gender Objectives. The allocation of a third of the projected disbursement
from the Bank and IFAD has highlighted the potential of the project to poverty alleviation and women's
access to credit. The women's component of the project was planned to start in selected regions (two
branches per region) in all provinces and at the end of the three year project period it was planned to
cover all 47 ADBP regions. Lending was also targeted at farmers with holdings less than 2.5 ha. Both
these activities were beset with substantial delays and failed to meet expectations. Despite termination
of the Bank Loan, ADBP has continued these activities out of its own resources. This shows its
commitment to small borrowers and implementation of innovative schemes to reach them, albeit on a
modest scale.
15.       Institutional Development Objectives. An overarching objective of the project was
rationalizing the development of the agricultural credit system and principally the ADBP into a viable
system. This objective was not achieved. The three key legal covenants relating to agricultural interest
rates, loan recovery and emergency lending which were intended to promote a viable credit system for
agriculture were persistently violated. The participation of CBs in the project has remained marginal
with disbursement of only about US$5 million against an allocation of some US$34 million due mainly
to lack of agreement by GOP on lending rates and also to legal and procedural delays and slippage in
recruitment of agricultural credit officers. As a result, increased participation of the formal banking
sector in agricultural credit was not achieved as anticipated at appraisal. However, the CBs expressed to
the ICR mission their appreciation of the project's contribution to sub-loan appraisal procedures, in
particular the remodeling which encompassed cash flow analysis.
16.       Financial Objectives. Contrary to expectations at appraisal, ADBP's financial situation
has continued to deteriorate for a combination of reasons; including dismally declining loan recovery,
inadequate adjustment of lending rates, particularly for tractors, continuation of emergency lending and
waiver of interest on loans from time to time. This has deepened its dependence on SBP's funds for new
lending. Significantly until late 1996, it was reluctant to mobilize its own resources. Consequently,
financial viability is still a distant goal for ADBP.
17.       Sector Policy Objectives. The sector policies relevant to the project included the adoption
of appropriate interest rates, a higher loan recovery rate and discontinuation of emergency lending.
None of these were implemented despite repeated prodding by the Bank. ADBP did not charge the rate
of return agreed in FY93 for all of its lending operations including tractor loans. GOP only allowed
ADBP to raise interest rates on tractor loans from 8% to 9% p.a. up to July 92, and 10% until July 93
and 11% until August 93, compared to 13.5% p.a. for other agricultural lending. For two consecutive
fiscal years during project implementation, ADBP did not meet the 75% loan recovery rate (before
rescheduling) required under the Project Agreement to be achieved by June 30, 1991. ADBP's loan
recovery rate before reschedulement worsened to 53% as of June 30, 1991, and June 30, 1992 and 44%
as of June 30, 1993. This caused recurrent liquidity problems, consistent defaults on its loans from SBP
and erosion of its own capital. Following floods of July 1992, GOP instructed ADBP to provide
emergency loans to flood victims, reschedule all loan repayments in affected areas, and to grant other
forms of loan relief to farmers under the Prime Minister's 'incentive scheme", thus violating legal
covenant which required ADBP to act merely as a disbursement agent for emergency loans.
18.       Subsidiary Objectives. Despite cancellation of part of the loan component, the project
components for the Rural Financial Market Study and the Land Computerization program were retained
for the benefit of future project development in rural finance. The objectives of these two components
were critical to the development objective of GOP and the Bank, namely: (i) alleviation of rural poverty
4



through agricultural growth; and (ii) expansion of rural employment and income through improved
financial intermediation and land market. After a slow start, implementation of the Rural Financial
Market Study gained momentum. Funds were released by SBP and the implementing agencies have
carried out most of the tasks including identification of villages for study, conduct of village census and
finalization of household questionnaires. Field-level recruitment, training and sample selection were
done on time and household surveys have been carried out. Similar level of progress was lacking in the
case of economic and financial analysis of the banks. Draft final reports on the Rural Financial Market
Study and Land Computerization are expected by March 31,1997.
19.       Project Impact. As stated in para 15, the project's principal objective has not been
achieved. ADBP has not developed into an effective and self-sustaining lending institution. Loan
recoveries have dipped and domestic savings mobilization has remained marginal, all combining to
increase its reliance on low-cost funding from SBP, which has become increasingly critical for its
continued existence. On the positive side, ADBP has continued its financing of farm investments during
the period under review. This is evidenced by its leading position as the country's largest single lender
to agricultural borrowers. Project loan funds were allocated to farm investments allowing greater capital
formation and better farm productivity. In addition, initiatives promoted by the current Chairman in
conjunction with a political commitment to penalize defaulters ( GOP has published on September 6,
1996 a list of 236 big defaulters of loans from various financial institutions including ADBP) are likely
to create a healthy environment for improved loan recovery and there is already evidence of higher loan
collections in absolute amounts (30% growth) in FY96 compared to the previous year.
20.       Re-estimated financial rates of return (FRR) ranged from 12% to 26% compared to 13% to
59% at appraisal, while economic rates of return ranged from 20% to 37% compared to 14% to 65% at
appraisal. The levels of FRR indicate that most investments could have supported loans at 13.5 %
established under the project. In many cases, the poor recovery of supporting loans should therefore be
attributed more to lack of willingness to repay than the lack of ability to repay.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.       Implementation Record. The project had almost become '"still bom"  Violations of
various loan covenants have persisted since October 1991, when the project was rated '3" Since then,
the rating has not improved. Disbursements were informally suspended in May 1993; and the
suspension became formal in August 1993. Between declaring it a problem project and cancellation, the
World Bank, IFAD, and GOP were engaged in redesigning the project in February 1994. The main
objective of such a Redesign Package for ADBP was to restore its financial viability. Despite the best
efforts by all stakeholders, the redesigned package fell short of achieving its objectives primarily due to
the change in ADBP's management and the government's reluctance to accept on-lending interest rates
(from ADBP and NCBs to final borrowers) on the commercial banks component.
22.       Other important contributory factors for the unsatisfactory implementation of the project
were:
-    Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. These included natural
calamities (e.g. 1992 floods), and poor demand for sub-loans from farmers holding
below 2.5 ha. As a result, lending volumes did not pick up as targeted.
-    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. These included frequent
changes in Chairmen of ADBP, lack of freedom by banks in setting lending rates,
5



which led to reluctance of CBs to participate in the project, GOP's requirement for
ADBP to undertake emergency lending without reimbursement of costs, lack of
political commitment to deal with willful defaulters and continuation of interest
remission programs, GOP directing ADBP to reschedule loans in calamity affected
areas and lax enforcement of classification and provisioning guidelines. These have
hindered the implementation of the project.
-    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agencies' Control. These included
reluctance in savings mobilization, inappropriate equity and maturity periods for
tractor loans, improper recognition of interest income on rescheduled loans (even
without a single payment of interest or principal ), poor loan recovery, the quality of
monitoring of sub-projects being less than satisfactory, centralization of decision-
making powers of Regional and Branch Managers at the head office level, and
political factors in the transfer of regional and branch staff. These factors have
reduced ADBP's liquidity situation and aggravated its already low profitability and
contributed to staff demoralization.
23.       Project Financing. Actual project financing at the completion was PRs34429 million
(US$1407million), 32% lower than the appraisal estimate of PRs.50,269 million (or US$2,283.2
million). They are not strictly comparable because of the cancellation of more than 50% of the original
loans by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.  Table 8A of Part II contains the details.
The project was financed jointly by the World Bank, IFAD and ADB. Parallel financing was provided
by OECF. Both the IBRD Loan and IDA Credit have lagged well behind actual expenditures. With the
cancellation of US$84 million by the World Bank, IBRD and IDA financed about 4.3% of total actual
expenditure compared to 6.5% of total project financing at appraisal.
24.       ADBP's Financial Performance:  ADBP's own assessment indicates that compliance
with SBP's prudential criteria would turn its reported profits into losses amounting to PRs. 1,850 million
(FY91), PRs.2,113 million (FY92), PRs.2,730 million (FY93), PRs.2,465 million (FY94), PRs.643
million (FY95), making a total cumulative loss of PRs.9,801 million for the period FY91-95, which is
more than enough to wipe out its entire equity ( PRs.6,429 million). The relaxation by SBP involved the
extension of the overdue period, for purposes of provisioning and recognition of interest income, from
180 days to 360 days until FY93 and thereafter requiring ADBP to charge to the profit and loss account
amounts less than what is required under the prudential regulations in order to show enough profits to
meet the debt/equity ratio of 7:1 mandated under the project. This device of window dressing helps SBP
in avoiding capital contribution to ADBP presumably to put pressure on the bank to recover its
overdues. An important policy issue is the extent to which these losses should be reduced by: (a) raising
lending rates, (b) tighter lending decisions and collection procedures to reduce losses from bad loans, and
(c) greater explicit subsidies.
25.       ADBP's Loan Recovery Performance: Overall loan recoveries have dropped from FY91
when they were around 53% to FY95 when they were at 42%. Recoveries out of past dues were only
20% in FY95 reflecting the difficulty in recovering funds once a borrower goes into default. Recoveries
from current dues were 61% in FY95 compared to 62% in FY91. This clearly underlines the
deterioration in the quality of ADBP's portfolio and the critical importance to the bank to achieve a
marked improvement in loan collection. In FY96, recovery rate rose from 2% to 44% due to devolution
of administrative, financial and loan sanctioning powers to zonal offices.
26.       ADBP's Place in Rural Finance: A series of investments have been made in various
sectors including irrigation, drainage, research and extension services in Pakistan. As a result, an
effective agricultural credit system has become essential to facilitate growth in Pakistan's agriculture.
6



Given ADBP's involvement in agricultural financing in the past, its continued role raises a question as to
what impact the Bank's seven projects have had on the development of sustainable rural financial
markets that are able to provide credit support to agriculture. This would be fully examined in the
ongoing Rural Financial Markets Study.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.        Project sustainability is unlikely since there are several 'Unfinished businesses" as well as
neglect of critical measures such as liberalization of agricultural interest rates, strict enforcement of
classification and provisioning guidelines, discontinuation of emergency lending and interest remission
programs and tolerance of willful defaults, most of which require GOP commitment. The need for
continued reform in these areas is clear as this project has unmasked the nature and seriousness of the
problems in the agricultural credit sector in particular and in the financial sector in general. Thus the
sustainability of the project hinges largely on GOP's commitment to undertake the measures that are
clearly identified as a result of this project. This in turn requires genuine ownership of the reform
program by the Government to ensure sustainability.
28.        Another risk to sustainability is the slow progress in strengthening institutional capacity of
banks - ADBP and CBs. The necessary institutional development measures (banking skills development,
training, management information systems, technical assistance and study tours, involvement of SBP in
the supervision of ADBP, arms length relationship between the Government and its banks) requires
urgent attention. The fundamental changes in the way ADBP operates are a necessary condition for
reform of the agricultural credit system and these changes would not be possible without its
privatization. However, privatization of ADBP in its present financial condition will not attract potential
investors and continuing emphasis is required in greater autonomy being given to the bank by GOP to
improve loan recovery and upgrade its financial viability.
E. WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
29.        The perfornance of the World Bank at appraisal was mixed. Overall, the project appraisal
identified project goals and established concise project objectives (taking into account the
recommendations of the World Bank's report on financial sector operations) consistent with sectoral
strategy. Two missions, one preappraisal and the other appraisal, with the participation of 11 and 2
professional specialists respectively, have carried out a review of the project concept and components.
The missions were fairly well-balanced and well-represented in relevant disciplines. However, there
were inadequacies which made the appraisal deficient.
30.        The appraisal mission overestimated the true portfolio quality of ADBP and did not fully
take into account the rapidly worsening loan recovery performance. At the time of appraisal, the Sixth
Agricultural Development Bank Project was being implemented with serious loan recovery problems.
This was not adequately recognized by the appraisal mission, further evidenced by the rating of "1" in
the first supervision mission of June/July 1990. The appraisal mission was highly optimistic in its
expectations of ADBP's institutional performance as evidenced by the allocation of about 35% of the
Bank loan for lending to special target groups - small farmers with holdings of less than 2.5 ha, landless
and women. In particular, the project design should have placed more emphasis on correcting the
7



institutional "culture"through the incentive framework which would have had the effect of improving the
quality of management and staff in ADBP. This was not done.
31.        The appraisal mission has not paid adequate attention to the project "at entry" In fact, the
Bank in its letter dated June 19, 1990, to the Secretary (Finance), Ministry of Finance, has set out the
key decisions taken at the review meeting of the SAR covering rate of return structure for CBs and
ADBP, lending to target groups, savings mobilization, ADBP's recovery rates and prudential
regulations. The difficulty of getting political commitment and even if that were possible, the likelihood
of implementation of a politically sensitive interest rate issue should have alerted the appraisal mission to
tackle effectively first the structural weaknesses including bad loans and their source, poor quality staff
and weak inspection by SBP, prior to tackling the liberalization of agricultural interest rates. The Bank
should have taken a firmer position regarding the financial performance of ADBP, insisting on
satisfactory results as a precondition for continued lending. The Bank should also have insisted on a
thorough portfolio audit before deciding to lend, whether repeater loans or not.
32.        Seven supervision missions were fielded over the three years, 1990-93.  All missions
comprised at least two staff members. Except for the first supervision mission, the rest have performed
satisfactorily. The first supervision mission inappropriately rated the project "1" (no significant
problems) when a key ingredient of financial viability - loan recovery performance - had worsened. The
Bank raised issues of concem including a redesign package to keep afloat the project and adopted the
inevitable step of canceling the loan when there was little hope of improvement in project performance.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.        The project was, by and large, prepared adequately by the borrower with assistance from
the Bank. However, during implementation, project perfomiance suffered largely due to the lack of firm
commitment by the Government to introduce recommended policy reforms within the project period.
ADBP lacked sufficient autonomy to introduce changes in its lending policies. Although ADBP took
measures to raise lending rates as required by the legal covenants, the intervention by the government did
not allow it to materialize.
34.        ADBP's actions to improve loan recovery rates were also to some extent made ineffective
by the govenmment's programs of interest remissions, and reschedulement of loans in calamity affected
areas. The extensive interference by the government has made it difficult for ADBP to tum over a new
leaf by implementing its lending operations on a sound basis.
35.        SBP's lax implementation of prudential regulations in favor of ADBP acted as a
disincentive for the latter to carry out reforms in its accounting policies. These concessions have led to
under-provisions for loan losses, overstatement of interest income, thereby masking the true state of
ADBP's finances.
36.        As shown in Table 10 of Part II, ADBP complied with most of the non-financial covenants,
but failed to comply with the key ones covering loan recovery rates, borrowers' contribution, maturity
period of tractor loans, and deposit mobilization. The non-compliance of ADBP can be attributed in
some cases to govenmment intervention in its lending operations. For example, the government required
ADBP in 1992 to reduce its lending rate on tractor loans to 9% p.a. and increase the maturity period to
10 years in violation of relevant covenants.
8



G. OUTCOME
37.       The project's outcome is rated as unsatisfactory on the basis that none of the critical
changes needed to bring the agricultural credit system to a position of viability were implemented,
leading to premature cancellation of the undisbursed balance of the Bank loan. ADBP is technically
insolvent; it does not really meet the stipulated debt-equity requirements under the project, the debt
recovery environment has worsened and the proportion of classified loans (about 73% of the outstanding
portfolio) is high even under present lax requirements; the lending rate on the tractor loans was negative
until August 93 and ADBP did not step up resource mobilization until late 1996.
38.       The outcome of the institutional development component has also been less than
satisfactory. Although training, some technical assistance and study tours have been carried out, they
have not been institutionalized as yet so that the culture within ADBP continues to be almost the same as
before the project.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
39.       There were no explicit arrangements about the project's future operation. The Bank has
continued its dialogue with GOP through its involvement in Rural Financial Markets Study and by
undertaking credit sector work. Any new operation will have to recognize the need for:
integration of rural finance into the general financial sector
-     profitability of banks;
-     improving debt recovery environment;
*     resource mobilization of ADBP;
a     discontinuation of blanket rescheduling, interest remission and emergency lending programs and;
a     refonn of agricultural credit interest rates.
a     a strong supervisory and regulatory framework.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
40.       The main lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(a)  The Bank made a positive contribution to modest improvements in the agricultural
credit delivery system to special target groups and provided long-term funds needed
by ADBP.  Nonetheless the project's principal objective of transforming the
agricultural credit system, though laudable, was too ambitious. The lesson is that the
political will to effect critical changes especially in interest rates and in granting
autonomy to ADBP should have been critically appraised.
(b)  A sector specific credit project is a weak instrument for addressing problems of
financial viability and financial intermediation in a sub-sector when the overall
banking system is unsound. The lesson is that a broader financial sector operation
9



like the ongoing Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project is more
appropriate.
(c) Institutional weaknesses and financial policy deficiencies need to be addressed before
Bank funds are channeled on a major scale.
(d)  The Sixth Agricultural Development Bank Project and the follow-up ACP had
overlapping periods of implementation. This had given less opportunity of learning
from the experience of implementing the previous project. The lesson is that
overlapping periods between the previous and the follow-up project are best avoided
to learn from the past.
(e)  It is clear that establishing target loan recovery rates while providing short-term
incentives, if any, is not an adequate response to the underlying problems. The broad
issues impinging on loan operations - liberalizing interest rates, discontinuation of
emergency lending, political commitment to punish willful defaulters - also require to
be addressed in order to create an environment conducive to healthy lending.
(f)  Government ownership of banks virtually eliminates a proper incentive framework.
Therefore, in an environment such as prevails in Pakistan, serious consideration
should be given to an insistence on privatization. As this will not be possible in the
present state of ADBP, the government should, in the meantime, provide ADBP full
autonomy in all its operations and allow it to test out the induction of private
enterprise to 'manage' in few branches. Also, the private sector may be invited to set
up new "unit" banks in reasonably prosperous farming areas.
(g)  Unless agricultural/rural credit interest rates are identical to the market-based interest
rates, participation of the commercial banks in any rural credit operation will never
become meaningful
10



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negli-ible  Not Applicable
(0           0)          (.0           0
Macro policies                      EO                                     I-,'I
Sector policies                    F]                        r]            II]
Financial objectives                0I]                        l 0E]
Institutional development          LI           EI]          [7l]          El
Physical objectives                 El          El7            El           O
Poverty reduction                  [l]          E7                         K]
Gender issues                        OI                      El            E]
Other social objectives            EI]          El           ELI           El
Environmental objectives             I]         El           ED            E]
Public sector management                                                    7 E  E  l]
Private sector development           I]            l            l          F
Other (specify)                    ED           ED            El           E]
B. Proiect sustaiabilitv             Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
El   El    El
Highly
C. Bank performance                 satisfactor    Satisfacton   Deficient
Identification                                  I ." 
Preparation assistance               O]         ED           El
Appraisal                          EJ           I 
Supervision                        ED                         El 
11



Highly
D. Borrower performance               satisfactorv   Satisfactora   Deficient
(se          (T)         (/)
Preparation                                                  IZ]
Implementation                                  Fl Fi
Covenant compliance                [D           []           E]
Operation (if applicable)          ED           [I             O]
Highly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome           satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactorv
12



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
LoanlCred  Title                           Purpose                      Year of           Status     Comments
Approval
Preceding operations
First Agricultural         Finance foreign exchange costs of tubewells    1965          Completed             -
Development Bank Project    and farm machinery.
(Cr.76-PAK)
Second Agricultural        Provide one year bridging finance between      1968          Completed             -
Development Bank Project    the first and a then proposed third project.
(Cr.117-PAK)
Third Agricultural         Continue to assist in the financing of a       1969          Completed   PPAR issued in June
Development Bank Project   lending programme undertaken under the                                    1978
(Cr.157-PAK)               above two projects and to assist
consolidation of ADBP as a sound
agricultural development bank
Fourth Agricultural        Finance through loans made to farmers by       1980          Completed    PPAR issued in June
Development Bank Project    ADBP medium and long-term agricultural                                   1986
(Cr.957-PAK)               investments, largely on-farm mechanization
and minor irrigation, and improve
development impact of ADBP, and its
financial and administrative efficiency.
Fifth Agricultural         Continue financing ADBP's medium and           1983          Completed    PPAR issued in
Development Bank Project   long-term lending programme and further                                   October 1990
(Ln.2305-PAK & Cr. 1380-   strengthening of ADBP to make it a sound
PAK)                       and effective lending institution.
Sixth Agricultural                          - do -                        1986          Completed    PCR issued in 1994
Development Bank Project
(Ln.2693-PAK & Cr.1699-
PAK)
Following operanons
Nil
13



Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                           Date planned                   latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                                     June 5-29, 1988
Preparation                                                                                     June 5, 1989R'
Appraisal                                                                                  June, July & Nov. 1989
Negotiations                                                                               Feb.28 - March 7, 1990
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                                              June 12, 1990
Signing
Effectiveness                                                   Dec. 27, 1990                  April 12, 1991
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)                           Not later than June 30, 1992          Dec. 6-18, 1992
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                           December 31, 1995                  June 30, 1996
Loan closing                                                    June 30, 1996                   June 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY89      FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95      FY96
IBRD Loan (US$ M)
Appraisal estimate                  -         -         34.0      68.0      107.0     139.01'    146.0   148.5
Actual                              -         -          -        29.7       64.3      64.5       64.5     64.5
IDA Credit (US$ M)
Appraisal estimate                  -         -          0.5       0.8        1.0       1.2        1.4      1.5
Actual                              -         -          -         0.20       0.20      0.23       0.29     0.68
Total Loans & Credit (USS M)
Appraisal estimate                  -         -         34.5      68.8      108.0      140.2     147.4    150.0
Actual                              -         -          -        29.9       64.5      64.7       64.8     65.2
Actual as % of Appraisal
Loan                                -         -          0        44         60        46         44       43
Credit                              -         -          -        25         20         19        21       45
Loan & Credit                       -         -          -        43         60        46         44       43
Date of final disbursement            .............
Loan of US$84 M was cancelled on June 28, 1994. Informal suspension of Ln.3226-PAK on May 10, 1993 and formal suspension on
August 5, 1993.
14



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I Key Implementation Indicators in                 Estimated                                   Actual
SAR/President's Report
FY91         FY92          FY93           FY91       FY92              FY93
Borrowers owning 2.5 ha or less    .         .................... (in PRs million) 
- Tractors                             172           209          252           1,244          334             425
- Farm implements                       49           68            90             203          123              80
- Other on-farm development           1,153        1,436         1,768          1,225          862             470
- Small-scale enterprises              446          558           701            N.A.         N.A.            N.A.
Sub-total                           1,820        2,271         2,811          2,672         1,319            975
Borrowers owning more than 2.5 ha
- Tractors                            4,104        4,971         5,990          1,400         1,409          3,123
- Farm implements                      905         1,119         1,340            335          244             223
- Private minor irrigation             703           932         1,148            327          166             182
- Other on-farm development           1,615        1,884         2,207            480          276             481
- Small-scale enterprises              136           166           169           N.A.         N.A.            N.A.
Sub-total                          7,463         9,072        10,854          2,542        2,095           4,009
Share of short-term lending (%)         25            35"          35             32            47             37
n. Loan Recovery Indicators (%)                            _                                                             l
- Loan recovery rate before             75           75            80             53            44             53
reschedulement
IS Amended to 35% on June 16, 1992.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not identified at appraisal)
15



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                      at appraiual/redefined                  Status                  Impact of study
1. Rural financial market     To provide infornation conceniing the  Expected to be completed
farm credit situation in order to identify    by March 31, 1997.
policy shortcomings and promote
sounder and economically more viable
credit programmes.
2. Specific policy issues      Causes of loan delinquency, cost and          Completed           Cost of agricultural lending
return of agricultural lending and im,pact                        estimated at 16%
of directed credit programmes.
3. A study of women's partici-    To serve as a basis for modifying      Not yet undertaken
pation in decision-making in    features of the of project in order to
domestic agricultural and    improve the impact on women.
non-agricultural affairs.
Table 8A: Project Costsy
Appraisal EstimateY'              Actual/latest estimate
Item                                                      PRs.M               US$ M           PRs.M             US$ M
Farm development loans                                    32,115.5           1,458.6          13,620              557
Small-scale enterprise loans                               2,175.7              98.8          N.A.                   -
Fisheries development loans                                  475.3              21.6             112                5
Project loans for agro-industry                            4,269.5             194.1           1,752               72
Incremental short-term loans                              10,250.5             465.6           8,479              346
Sub-total                                             49,286.5          2,238.7          23,963              980
Institutional Development
- Vehicles & equipment                                       557.7              25.3             189                8
- Technical specialists & fellowships                         152.5              6.9           9,922              405
- Local training                                               19.2              0.9               3                 -
- Incremental administrative expenditure                     202.8               9.2             318               13
Sub-total                                                932.2              42.3         10,432              426
Agricultural credit research                                   34.3               1.6     )
)       34               1
Computerization of land records                                15.5              0.6      )
Total Project Cost                                    50,268.5          2,283.2          34,429            1,407
Project costs financed by Loans from  the Bank, IFAD  and ADB were up to FY93 (termination of loans) an
project costs financed by IDA Credit were up to June 30, 1996 (Scheduled closing date).
2' Includes contingencies.
16



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Source
IBRD/IDA                                   150                                 61
Cofinancing institutionsy'                175                                  80
Domestic contributione                   1,958.2                            1,266
TOTAL                                  2,283.2                             1,407
'' Comprising US$150 M by ADB and US$25 M by IFAD.
I lncluding US$100 M by OECF.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Variables                              Appraisal Estimate                ICR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return (%)
- Tractors/Implements
- Irrigated 5 ha                            22.8                             20
- Barani 10 ha                              21.0                             18
- Tubewells
- Diesel 5 ha                               41.7                             37
- Electric 5 ha                             39.3                             34
- Orchards 5 ha                              22.8                             16
Financial Rate of Return (%) m
- Tractors/Implements
- Irrigated 5 ha                            13.4                             12
- Barani 10 ha                              18.7                             16
- Tubewells
- Diesel 5 ha                               29.4                             26
- Electric 5 ha                             27.7                            24
- Orchards 5 ha                              32.8                             23
Underlying Assumptions:                                                                        l
- Project life (years)                        10                              10
- Standard conversion factor                  0.9                             0.9
- Shadow wage rate                            0.8                             0.8
17



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreementl      Covenant   Present    Original          Revised         Description of Covenant                Comments
Section         Type         Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date           Date
LOAN
3.01A                        NC         11              11              The Borrower shall cause PCIs to       PCIs were in default of many
perform in accordance with             provisions of PA as detailed
provisions of all PA obligations.      later.
3.01B                        C                                          ' The Borrower shall relend proceeds
of Loan to PCIs under terms and
conditions approved by the Bank.
3.01C                        C          11              11              Borrower shall exercise its rights in
such manner as to protect the
interests of Borrower and Bank.
3.02                         C          11              11              Procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services shall be
governed by provisions of Schedule
I of PA.
4.01A                                   11                              For all expenditures on basis of
SOE the Borrower shall:
4.01A(i)                     C          11              11              - Maintain records and accounts
reflecting expenditures.                                             l
4.01A(ii)                    C          11              11              - Ensure all records evidencing
expenditures are retained one year
after Bank received audit report.
4.01A(iii)                   C          11              11              - Enable Bank's representatives to
examine records.
4.01B                                                                   The Borrower shall:
4.01B(i)                     C          11              11              - Have records and accounts in para
A(i) audited each fiscal year.
4.01B(ii)                    C          11              11              - Furnish audit report to Bank not
later than 6 months after end of
each year.
4.01B(iii)                   C          11              11              - Furnish to Bank other information
concerning records, and accounts
and audit.
4.02                         NC         11              11              Borrower shall make available to       The interest rate for FY92,
ADBP funds required in addition to     FY93 & FY94 was a
proceeds of Loan at rate of return in    maximum of 6% p.a. on PLS
FY91 (6%), FY92 (7%), and each         basis. The actual rate is
fiscal year thereafter (7%) p.a.       much lower (3.2% in FY92)
& varies depending on the
l _________     ________     _______    __________      __________      ___________________________                profit   m ade    by    A D BP.
18



Agreement/    Covenant   Present   Original         Revised        Description of Covenant              Comments
Section        Type        Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
4.03                       NC         1/            11             Borrower shall not require ADBP to    ADBP has not been
undertake emergency lending of       reimbursed by GOP for costs
financing except: (a) a major natural   incurred for emergency
calamity, and (b) as a disbursement    lending programmes.
agent for funds provided by
Borrower for such purpose.
4.04                       NC         1/            //             Borrower shall increase ADBP's       Although ADBP's financial
paid-up capital when needed to      statements indicated nominal
maintain 7:1 debt to equity ratio.   cornpliance, its equity would
be completely eliminated if
adequate provision is made
for loan losses.
4.05A                                I/             //             Borrower shall take steps,
satisfactory to Bank, to ensure all
lending rates in Ag.Credit sector
shall:
4.05ACI)                   C          //            //             - From 7/1/90 become and remain
at least positive in real terms.
4.05(ii)                   CP         11            11             - From 7/1/92 be sufficient to cover    On-lending rates for tractors
the cost of funds, reasonable      and implements (8%)
admin. costs, adequate provisions  negative in real terms.
for expected loan losses, and a    Lending rateswere not
reasonable margin of profit.       sufficient to meet costs.
PROJ.
2.01B                      CP         11                           PCIs shall carry out Parts A, B & E    Inplementation schedule
of Project in accordance with Imple-   continuously obstructed by
mentation Prog. set forth in        internal and external
Schedule 2.                         administrative constraints and
suspect commitment.
2.01C                      NC         11            1/             Proceeds of Loan relent to PCIs for    Current rates are not as
purposes of Part A shall be on-lent  agreed with Bank.
by them to beneficiaries under terms
& conditions approved by Bank.
2.02                       C/                       11             Procurement of goods, works and
consultants' services financed out of
proceeds of Loan shall be governed
l___________ _________                                              by provisions of Schedule I.
2.03                       C          I/            /1             PCIs shall carry out obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07, 9.08 & 9.09 of the General
Conditions in respect of PA and
respective areas of responsibility.
2.04                       C                        1/             PCIs shall perform all their         All SLAs signed.
obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and shall not
amend, abrogate, assign or waive
l ___________    _________    ________    ___________    _____  _   Subsidiar  Loan Agreements.ary_Loan_Agreements.
2.05A                      C          I1            11             PCis shall at request of Bank
exchange views with Bank.
19



Agreementl    Covenant   Present   Original         Reviaed        Description of Covenant              Comments
Section        Type        Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
2.05B                      C          /l            t/             PCIs shall promptly inform Bank of
any condition which interferes with
progress of the Project.
2.06                       C          //            /1             PCIs hall only use hire purchase,
mark-up leasing, mark-down and
buy-back modes of Islamic banking.
3.01                       NC         ll            //             PCIs shall carry out their operations    Sound financial practices are
and conduct their affairs in         continuously violated by
accordance with sound administra-    ADBP (see 4.02 and
tive, financial and agricultural credit   following).
practices.
3.02                       C          //            //             PCIs shall at all times operate and
maintain their plant, machinery,
equipment and other property, and
make necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and
agricultural credit practices.                                    l
3.03                       C          11            1/             PCIs shall take out and maintain
insurance.
4.01A                      NC         11            ll             PCIs shall maintain records and      ADBP's accounting practices
accounts adequate to reflect, in    in respect of recognition of
accordance with sound accounting     interest income, provision for
practices, their operations and     loan losses, and loan write-
financial condition.                up are not in accordance with
acceptable accounting
principles.
4.01B(i)                   C                                       PCIs shall have their records,
accounts & financial statements for
each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to
Bank.
4.01B(ii)                  C          ll            11             PCIs shall furnish to Bank not later
than 6 months after end of each
year: (a) certified copies of financial
statements, and (b) audit reports.
4.01B(iii)                 C          ll            ll             PCIs shall furnish to Bank other
information concerning records,
accounts and financial statements as
requested.
4.02A                      NC         ll            11             ADBP shall not incur any debt, if    Although ADBP's financial
after incurrence of such debt the    statements indicated hominal
ratio of debt to equity shall be    compliance, its equity would
greater than 7:1.                   be comletely eliminated if
adequate provision is made.
20



Agreement/    Covenant   Present   Original       Revised       Description of Covenant            Comments
Section       Type        Status    Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date         Date
4.03A                     CP        1/           t/             ADBP shall at all times charge rates   Currently generally 14%
or return or service charge on     which is positive; but S% for
financing provided by it which shall   tractors which was negative.
be positive in real terms within the
meaning of Section 4.05 of LA to
enable it:
4.03(i)                   C         /t            It            - to cover all its operating
expenditures and charges, returns
& service charges on borrowings;
4.03(ii)                  NC        11           11             - to make provisions for bad debts  At end FY91 coverage was
and maintain provision at a ratio to   41 %. However, computation
total overdues not less than 40%,    of provisions not satisfactory.
but not below the level prescribed
in SBP's prudential regulations;
4.03(iii)                 NC        /             11            - to accumulate reserves adequate to    Although ADBP's financial
ensure, in conjunction with      statements indicated nominal
Borrower's contribution to       compliance, its equity would
ADBP's paid-up capital, that     be completely eliminated if
ADBP's ratio of debt to equity is    adequate provision is made
not greater than 7:1.            for loan losses.
4.03B(i)                  C         11           1I             ADBP shall charge on all
outstanding balances of funds
advanced on the basis of a service
charge at a rate prescribed by SBP.
4.03B(ii)                 NC        11           11             ADBP shall charge on funds         Interest rate agreed with the
advanced: in FY91 a rate of return  Bank of T-Bill + 0.5% was
of not less than 12% p.a.; in FY92  not changed.
a rate of return of 13 % p.a.; and in
FY93 a rate of return as agreed by
Borrower, AdBP and the Bank
following relevant annual review of
ADBP's financial position.
4.04A                                                           ADBP shall take measures each year
to achieve a level of profits adequate
to fund its reserves. To this end,
ADBP shall:
4.04A(I)                  C                       11            - not later than 12/31 in each year,    Informal report (tables
review its past and projected    illustrating situation)
income and profit, & develop     reviewed in field. No formal
proposals for measures to achieve    report ever submitted.
said levels of profits;
4.04A(ii)                 CP        11           11             - not later than 3/31 in following  Deficit problems resolved
year, obtain concurrence of      through ad hoc equity
Borrower and Bank to such        contributions. Bank only
proposals;                       informed, approval never
sought.
4.04A(iii)                NC        11           11             - thereafter, but not later than   No proposals ever made to
following 7/1, implement         Bank.
proposals.                                                   l
21



Agreement/    Covenant   Present    Original            Revised         Description of Covenant                Comments
Section         Type         Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date           Date
4.04B                        C          11             1I               ADBP shall not pay out dividends in
any year in which profits fall short
of level required to funds its
reserves.
4.05                                                                    Except as otherwise agreed, ADBP
shall:
4.05A                        NC         11              11             - report incomes each fiscal year on    ADBP's accounting practices
accrual accounting basis as incomes   in respect of recognitionof
earned, irrespective of cash          interest income, provision for
received, on loans in accordance      loan losses, and loan write-
with SBP's prudential regulations;    up are not in accordance with
acceptable accounting
l_______    ___________    ____________                                            principles.
4.05B                        C          11              11              - in cases of early repayment made
available on basis of Islamic
modes of financing, calculate &
collect outstanding principal on
l_______    ___________                      reducing  balances.
4.05C                        NC         11              11              - apply, at end of each fiscal year, a    Write-offs of on-farm loans
permanent write-off policy in         conflict with Land Revenue
compliance with SBP's prudential      Act.
regulations and satisfactory to
Bank, writing-off long overdue
loans and other financing.
4.06                         CP         /1              11              ADBP shall limit its short-term        This was 35 %, but does not
credit financing to 25 % of all        materially affect project
lending and other financing.           implementation.
4.07                         C           1              1/              ADBP shall limit its financing under
non-interest based financing modes
other than hire purchase, leasing,
mark-up, mark-down and buy-back
to no more than I %.
4.08A                        NC         11              11              ADBP shall take measures necessary    Recovery rate (June 93)
to reach a recovery rate, stated as a  before reschedulement was
ratio of ADBP's total recoverables     44%.
before rescheduling for each fiscal
l_______  ____________                     year of at least 75 % by 6/30/93.
4.0SB                        C          /1              11             The term 'total recoverables' means
the sum of amounts overdue at
beginning of such fiscal year and
amounts falling due during fiscal
l________                               ____________    year.
4.09                                                                    ADBP shall modify its credit
targeting system to ensure that:
22



Agreement/    Covenant   Present    Original            Revised         Description of Covenant                Comments
Section         Type         Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date           Date
4.09A                        C           /I            1/               - out of total disbursement made       New regional targeting
through MCO system, following         system not yet applied but
proportions are directed at small-    agreed targets still being
holder farmers with less than 2.5     achieved at present. Regional
ha of land & the landless: (i)       targeting system would
FY91 - 10%; (ii) FY92 - 15%; &        improve likelihood of
(iii) FY93 & each fiscal year         achievement.
thereafter - 20%.
4.09B                        C                          1/              - out of total disbursements made      - do -
through MCO (intensification)
system, following proportions are
directed: (i) FY91 - 15%; (ii)
FY92 - 20%; (iii) FY93 & each
fiscal year thereafter - 25%.
4.10A                        CP         11              11              NCBs shall charge rates of return      On-lending rate for tractors
extended by them from 711190, at       (8%) negative in real terms.
least positive in real terms which
shall:
4.10A(i)                     C          H               H               - be not less than 7% per session of    Introduced 7/1/90.
not more than 8 months for crops
other than sugarcane and not less
than 10% p.a. for sugarcane;
4.1OA(ii)                    CP         11              1/             - from 7/1/91, be sufficient to cover    Preliminary cost accounting
cost of funds and reasonable          exercise suggests 16% rate,
administrative costs;                but may be 1-2 points too
high.
4.10A(iii)                   NC         11              11              - from 7/1/92, be sufficient to cover    General on-lending rate
the above, and provisions and         expected to be approved
profits;                              7/1/92; (13.5 %) may be
adequate, but tractor rate
_______   _____ _   _____ ____  _ ______ _  ____________(8% )  too   low.
4.10B                        NC         //              //              NCBs shall: (i) notlater than 12/31    GOP must approve increase
of each year beginning 1990, review    in general on-lending rates
adequacy of rate of return structure;    and eliminate preferential
(ii) not later than 3/31 in following  tractor rate.
year, obtain concurrence of
Borrower and Bank to recommenda-
tions for change from review; and
(iii) not later than 7/1, implement
recommendations.
4.10C                        CP         //              //              CBs shall, not later than 9/31/90,     CBs have made preliminary
strengthen cost accounting             study (see 4.10(lii)), now
capability.                            broader consultant study is
under procurement.
4.11                         C          1/              /1              CBs shall limit agricultural credit
financing to hire purchase, leasing,
mark-up, mark-down and buy-back.
23



Agreement/    Covenant   Present   Original        Revised        Description of Covenant             Comments
Section        Type       Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
4.12A                      NC        t/            ll             PCIs shall, not later than 7/1/90,
require farmers applying for credit
for: (i) farm tractors, farm
implements and private minor
irrigation, to contribute towards
investment costs no less than 15 % if
owning 10 ha or less land, 20% if
between 11-20 ha, and 25 % if more
than 20 %; (ii) PMI to contribute not
less than 10% if owning less than 5
ha of land.
4.12B                      C         ll            ll             PCIs shall, not later than 9/30 in
each year beginning 1991, review
requirements for equity contribution
by farmers who apply for tractors,
implements and PMI loans.
4.13A                      C         if             1t            NCBs shall, not later than 711190
decrease minimum land--ownership
requirement for farm tractors from
10 to 5 ha.
4.13B                      C         11            11             PCIs shall, not later than 9/30 each
year, beginning 1991 review
minimum land ownership require-
ments for farm tractor credit.
4.14                       C         ll            11             PCIs shall extend agncultural credit
only for investment project
adequately appraised in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to Bank
with regard to financial viability,
benefits derived and product
________  ________ _    _               marketability.
4.15                       NC        11            11             PCIs shall recruit additional staff  GOP requires recruitment
through open competition,.          through Pakistan Banking
and Finance Services
Commission.
4.16                       C         11            11             PCIs shall, in consultation with
Borrower and Bank, carry out mid-
._______  _term review by 6/30192.
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
2.02B                      C         1              1             Borrower shall cause SBP and        SBP and Punjab agreed to
Punjab to open and maintain in      open in Oct. 91.
dollars, special accounts in a
commercial bank.
3.01B                      C         11            11             Borrower shall make proceeds of
Credit available to SBP and Punjab
on grant basis.
3.02                       C         11            11             Procurement of goods and
consultants' services financed out of
proceeds shall be governed by
l_______ .   ______                           _     provision of Schedule I of PA.
24



Agreement/    Covenant   Present    Original          Revised        Description of Covenant               Comments
Section        Type         Status     Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date           Date
3.03                        C          ll             11             Borrower and IDA agree that
obligations set forth shall be carried
out by SBP and Punjab,
l________    ________  ____________    ____________    respectively.
4.01A                       C          /J             ll             For all expenditures with with-
drawals from Credit Account which
were made on basis of SOE, the
Borrower shall:
4.01A(i)                    C          if             ll             - maintain in accordance with sound
accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting expenditures;
4.01A(ii)                   C          ll             ll             - ensure all records evidencing
expenditures are retained at least I
year after receipt of audit report
for fiscal year of last withdrawal;
4.01A(iii)                  C          l/             ll             - enable IDA's representatives to
examine records.
4.01B                                                                Borrower shall:
4.01B(i)                    C          /              l/             - have records and accounts referred
to in 4.01A(i) audited each fiscal
year;
4.01B(ii)                   C          ll             ll             - furnish as soon as available but not
later than 6 months after end of
each year, audit by said auditors;
4.01B(iii)                  C          ll             ll             - furnish other information
concerning said records and
accounts, & the audit as
reasonably requested.
PROJ (SBP)                                                                                                                               l
2.01A                       C          ll             ll             SBP and Punjab declare
commitment to objectives of Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to DCA.
2.01B                       C          /              ll             SBP and Punjab shall carry out
Parts C and D of Project.
2.01C                       C          ll                            SBP and Punjab shall, for purposes
of Parts C & D of Project, open and
maintain in dollars special accounts
in a commercial bank.
2.02                        C          ll             ll             Procurement of goods and
consultants' services required for
Parts C & D of Project and financed
out of proceeds of Credit, shall be
governed by provisions of Schd. 1.
2.04A                       C          ll             ll             SBP and Punjab shall, at request of
IDA, exchange views with IDA with
regard to progress of Parts C & D.
25



Agreement/    Covenant   Present   Original        Revised        Description of Covenant             Comments
Section        Type        Status    Fulfillment    Fulfillment
Date          Date
2.04B                      C         11             1             SBP and Punjab shall promptly
inform IDA of any conditions which
interferes or threatens to interfere
with progress of Parts C & D.
2.04B
3.01A                      C         ll            11             SBP and Punjab shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting
practices, operations, resources and
expenditures in respects of Parts B
& C.
3.01B                                                             SBP and Punjab shall:
3.01B(i)                   C         11            11             - have such records and accounts,
including those for Special
Accounts, for each fiscal year
audited;
3.01B(ii)                  C         1/            11             - furnish to IDA as soon as available
but not later than 6 months after
end of each such year, report of
such audit by said auditor;
3.01B(iii)                 C         11            11             - furnish to IDA such other
information as shall be requested.
5.02                       C         11            11             Any action taken or document
executed under this Agreement on
behalf of SBP & Punjab or on
behalf of the Borrower under DCA,
shall be taken or executed, in the
case of SBP, by the Executive
Director in charge of Agriculture
Credit Dept., and in the case of
Punjab, by the Director, Revenue
Academy, Punjab, or such other
person designated in writing.
Status: C   Covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All applicable Operational Manual Statements were complied with.
26



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                  Actual
Stage of
project cycle        Weeks        US$ (000)      Weeks      US$ (000)     Weeks    US$ (000)
Preparation to                 NA           NA            NA           NA        131.2        201.8
appraisal             _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                        _ _ _ _ _
Appraisal                      NA           NA            NA           NA        84.7         168.3
Negotiations through           NA           NA            NA           NA        15.8          31.0
Board approval
Supervision                    10.3         15.7          NA           NA       225.7        434.3
Completion                     13.0         69.5          NA           NA        18.8         65.2
TOTAL                        NA           NA            NA            NA       476.2        900.6
27



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of             Month/           Number       Days in        Specialized         Implemen-       Develop-       Types of
project cycle            year             of           field         staff skills         tation          ment        problems"
persons                    represented"           status       objectives
Preappraisal            June/July 89           11           28       ACS(2),AG,EC(2),
ER,FA,IE,ME,
WID(2)
Appraisal               Nov. 89                 2            14      ACS, AG
Supervision 1           June/July 90            5            18      ACS,AG,BK,ME,W              1               1             M
ID
Supervision 2           Jan.91                 NA           NA       NA                         NA              NA            NA
Supervision 3           Sept. 91               55            14      EC, ACS, AG, FA             3               3           F, M
Supervision 4           April 92                7            14      ACS,AG,EC,FA +              3               3            F,M
ADB(2),IFAD(l)
Supervision 5           June/July 92            4            24      FA(2),WID(2)                3               3            F,M
Supervision 6           Dec. 92                 3            13      AG,FA,WID                   3               3            F,M
Supervision 7           June/July 93           NA           NA       NA                         NA              NA            NA
Supervision 8           Feb. 94            Joint donor    redesign   mission
Supervision 93/         Sept./Oct.94            3            14      AG,FA(2)                    1               1
Supervision 1031        Feb./March 95           2            20      EC(2)                       I               1
Supervision 113/        Mar. 96                 3            14      EC, PA                      1               1             M
Completion              Aug/Sept.96             3            14        ACS,AG,IE
ACS = Agricultural Credit Specialist; AG = Agriculturist; BK = Banker; EC = Economist; ER = Engineer;
FA = Financial Analyst; IE = Institutions Expert; ME = Management Expert; WID = Women in Development Specialist.
2' F = Financial; M = Management.
-' Missions did supervision of only the studies (IDA-Credit funded) after the cancellation of loan.
28



APPENDIX A
Implementation Completion Report
Pakistan
Agricultural Credit Project
(Cr.2153-Pak and Ln. 3226-Pak)
APPENDIX A
FAO/CP Mission Aide Memoire
A. Introduction
1.    An FAO/CP mission comprising Messers. Selvavinayagam, Sugimura, and Gunetilleke
visited Pakistan from 22 August to 6 September 1996 to review the implementation experience of
the Agricultural Credit Project (ACP) and prepare its implementation completion report (ICR).
After initial meetings with senior officials including the Chairman, Executive
Directors, and Senior directors of the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), the
Section Officer (Banks) of the Economic Affairs Dept. and the Deputy Secretary (Internal
Finance), Ministry of Finance, the mission made field visits to the North West Frontier, Punjab
and Sind Provinces and held discussions with the concerned officials from the banks including
the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), the Pakistan Banking Council, the agricultural credit staff from
the participating commercial banks (CBs), ADBP's Regional and Branch Managers as well as
farmer beneficiaries. The purpose of this Aide Memoire is to present to the implementing
agencies the mission's findings on the project performance.
2.    The mission wishes to thank all concerned personnel and in particular ADBP's staff for
their combined efficiency in the prompt provision of information, excellent arrangements for
meetings with the other institutions and hospitality extended to the mission during its stay in the
country.
B. The Project
3.    Project Objectives:  The objectives of the project were to continue to assist the
Government in developing a viable agricultural credit system and to consolidate the gains
already made in that direction through further developments toward financial sector
liberalization, progress in increasing competition between banks and expanding the
resource base of financial institutions by expanding their capability to generate deposits and by
providing long-term funds to augment existing short-term funds. To this end, the project
supported two main components:



Lending Component. This included medium-/long-term lending by ADBP and the CBs
(for farm mechanization, private minor irrigation, livestock. orchards, inland fisheries
and other on-farm  development);  by ADBP for rural small-scale enterprises and
time-saving technologies, incremental short-term lending (for crop production and
processing, sheep and goat fattening and small-scale enterprises).
Institutional Development. For ADBP, it included innovative approaches related to (i)
establishing a credit delivery system for lending to women through the use of different
types of female credit staff; (ii) use of group guarantees as collateral for loans where
group members (those owning less than 2.5 ha) are jointly and severally responsible for
all loans disbursed; and (iii) direct lending to and use of non-governmental organizations
by ADBP in lending-related activities.
For the CBs, the institutional development component reinforced their existent supervised
credit scheme. The project was also to develop linkages between credit and extension,
provide funds for vehicles and equipment, training, teclnical assistance, fellowships and
study tours and incremental administrative costs on a declining basis, and promote
environmental safeguards in the use of pesticides and fertilizer procured with credit
funds.  It also supported research on agricultural credit nation-wide and the
computerization of land records in one district on a pilot basis.
4.    Project Cost. The project was planned to be implemented over 5.5 years from Dec.
1990 to June 1996, and the total project cost including the physical and price contingencies was
estimated at US $2283.2 million (PRs. 50268.5 million). The Bank loan of US $148.5 million
and the IDA credit of US $1.5 million were to finance about 6.6% of the project costs. The
remainder (US $2133 million) was to be met by the Asian Development Bank (ADB - US $150
million), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD - US $25 million), Overseas
Economic Co-operation Fund (OECF Japan) and participating institutions (US $1678.7 million)
as well as borrowers (US $279.5 million).
5.    Special Legal Covenants. Special legal covenants or agreements that were expected to
promote the achievement of project objectives pertained principally to: (a) rates of return charged
by ADBP and commercial banks; (b) loan recovery performance of ADBP; and (c) emergency
lending mandated by the government of Pakistan (GOP) and implemented by ADBP. These
covenants were persistently violated during the currency of the Bank Loan.  The Deputy
Secretary (Internal Finance), however, contended that the main issue in emergency lending is
the prompt reimbursement of costs by GOP rather than the requirement that ADBP should act as
an agent as stipulated in the legal covenant. This view does not take into account wrong signals
given to borrowers taking loans under regular lending programme of the bank, thereby
weakening the credit discipline.
2



C. Implementation Experience and Results.
6.    Implementation Record:  The project had almost become "still born". Violations of
various loan covenants have persisted since October 1991, when the project was rated "3".
Since then, the rating has not improved. Disbursements were informally suspended in May
1993; and the suspension became formal in August 1993. Since then, the Bank and GOP were
engaged in efforts to redesign the project. The main objective of such a Redesign Package for
ADBP was to arrest the rapid deterioration in its financial position and to restore it to normalcy
in the medium-term. The Redesign Package addressed the underlying factors that made ADBP
non-viable and proposed to relax some financial covenants stipulated in the Legal Agreements.
The package stressed the strengthening of ADBP's financial condition, reforming ADBP's
business and financial policies, giving a new impetus to the pilot programmes targeted towards
women and poor clients, liberalizing agricultural interest rates, encouraging ADBP's compliance
with SBP's prudential regulations and encouraging SBP's supervision of ADBP. However,
developments since March 1994 have rendered the Redesign Package untenable mainly due to
continued decline in ADBP's loan recovery and its prospects for improvement in the future, and
certain decisions of ADBP's Board of Directors in May 1993 negating the objectives of the
Redesign Package. These included (i) resumption of project lending, which had unduly low
recovery rates in the past reaching 13.8 % in FY93; (ii) delinking lending from recovery for
production loans; and (iii) entry into commnercial banking, a new field for which ADBP had no
immediate capability. In addition, the proposals related to CBs in the Redesign Package were
declared unacceptable by the Borrower.  Because of these factors, the Bank cancelled the
undisbursed balance of about US $84 million.  However, the IDA credit financing a rural
finance study and computerization of land records in Kasur district (Punjab) was retained.
7.    Project Costs. Actual project cost at project completion was PRs 45510 million (US
$1723 million), 9 % lower than the appraisal estimate of PRs 50,268.5 million (or US $2,283.2
million). They are not strictly comparable because of the cancellation of more than 50% of the
original loans by the Bank, IFAD and the Asian Development Bank.
8.    Project Financing. The project was financed jointly by thie Bank, IFAD and ADB.
Parallel financing was provided by OECF. Both Loan and Credit have lagged well behind actual
expenditures. With the cancellation of US $84 million by the Bank, Bank funds financed about
3.3% of total actual expenditure compared to 6.6% of project costs at appraisal.
3



D. Main Findings
9.    Lending Component.  Total loan disbursement has expanded from PRs 7736 million
(97670 loan cases) in FY91 to PRs 7985 million in FY93 (202,098 loan cases), representing a
nominal growth rate of 1.5% p.a. compared to 16% achieved during FY87-90. Short-term loans
have progressively increased over the period forming 37% in FY93. up by 6% from FY91. In
contrast, medium and long-term lending has steadily declined by 3% p.a. over the period under
review.  Relatively better recoveries, a high proportion of repeat borrowers and easier
disbursement mechanism combined with liquidity constraints have contributed to greater
concentration in production (short-term) loans. Within short-term loans, fertilizer accounted for
a high share; tractor loans predominated among medium and long-term loans, followed by dairy
farming and tubewells. Rise in tractor prices is a major influence on borrowers' demand for
tractors with small horsepower; those below 35 HP accounted for 20%, and replacement tractors
for 60%.
10.   Since FY91, a shift has occurred in the distribution of loans towards farmers holding less
than 5 ha. An analysis of loan disbursement in FY95 by landholdings shows that 64% (58% in
FY91) by numbers of borrowers and 48% (43% in FY91) by amount have holdings of less than
5 ha. A further 22%  (21% in FY91) by number and 30% (23% in FY91) by amount have
holdings between 5-10 ha. Average loan balances range from PRs79205 in FY91 to PRs 39510
in FY93. However, the average size has now (FY95) grown to PRs. 71785. Field observations
indicate that the main beneficiaries of ADBP are well-to-do farmers.
11.   Deposits Pattern. The breadth of access to deposit services is measured by annual
growth in deposits and the number of depositors. Deposits decreased from PRs 3,467 million in
FY91 to PRs 1,064 million in FY93, representing an annual negative growth of 45 % in nominal
terms. In FY 93, ADBP had most of its deposits in current account balances (47%) and modest
proportion (13%) in Pls savings deposits compared to 20% and 6% respectively in FY91. The
decline in deposits is partly due to its greater concerns for lending than for deposit mobilization.
ADBP has recently developed a strategy for savings mobilization through special branches set
up exclusively for that purpose in selected commercial cities. Initially 25 existing branches have
been earmarked for this purpose, of which 5 branches are scheduled to start operations
December 1996. A new syllabus has been prepared and staff training in commercial banking is
to begin soon. A further element of the strategy is to commit 20% of resources to commercial
banking and 80% to agricultural banking. The bank is also seriously considering floatation of
new saving schemes with maturity of 3 to 5 years. The seriousness of the present Chairmnan and
the enthusiasm of the current Senior Executive Director in charge of Deposit Mobilization who
had over 15 years of experience in a conmmercial bank are positive developments and augur well
for deposit mobilization which is key to survival of ADBP. As an initial step, separation of
4



deposit mobilization from lending activity in a branch is acceptable, but integration is essential in
the long run.
12.   Equity and Gender Objectives. Although equity and gender issues were not explicitly
stated objectives of the project, the allocation of a third of the projected disbursement from the
Bank and IFAD has highlighted the potential of the project to poverty alleviation and women's
access to credit. The women's component of the project was planned to start in selected regions
(two branches per region) in all provinces and at the end of the three year project period it was
planned to cover all 47 ADBP regions. Lending was also targeted at farmners with holdings less
than  2.5 ha.  Both these activities were beset with substantial delays and failed to meet
expectations. Despite termination of the Bank Loan, ADBP has continued these activities out of
its own resources.  This shows its commitment to small borrowers and implementation of
innovative schemes to reach them, albeit on a modest scale.
13.   Institutional Development Objectives. An overarching objective of the project was
rationalizing the development of the agricultural credit system and principally the ADBP into a
viable system. For ADBP, financial viability is still a distant goal; reasons include high
delinquency and negative interest rates on tractor portfolio (until Sept 1993), both depleting its
already fragile capital. The three key legal covenants relating to agricultural interest rates, loan
recovery and emergency lending which were intended to promote a viable credit system for
agriculture were persistently violated.
14.   The participation of CBs in the project has remained marginal with disbursement of only
about US $ 5 million against an allocation of some US $ 34 million, due mainly to lack of
agreement by GOP on lending rates and also to legal and procedural delays and slippage in
recruitmnent of agricultural credit officers. As a result, increased participation of the formal
banking sector in agricultural credit was not achieved as anticipated at appraisal. However, the
CBs expressed to the mission their appreciation of the project's contribution to sub-loan appraisal
procedures, in particular the remodelling which encompassed cash flow analysis.
15.   Sector Policy Objectives.  The sector policies relevant to the project included the
adoption of appropriate interest rates, a higher loan recovery rate and discontinuation of
emergency lending. None of these were implemented despite repeated prodding by the Bank.
ADBP is not charging the rate of return agreed in FY93 for all of its lending operations
including tractor loans. GOP has only allowed ADBP to raise interest rates on tractor loans
from 8% to 9% p.a. up to July 92 and 10% until July 93 and 11 % until August 93 compared to
13.5% p.a. for other agricultural lending. For two consecutive fiscal years during project
implementation, ADBP has not met the 75% loan recovery rate (before rescheduling) required
under the Project Agreement to be achieved by June 30, 1991. ADBP's loan recovery rate before
reschedulement worsened to 53% as of June 30, 1991 and June 30, 1992 and 44% as of June
30, 1993. This has caused recurrent liquidity problems, consistent defaults on its
5



loans from SBP and erosion of its own capital. Following floods of July 1992, GOP instructed
ADBP to provide emergency loans to flood victims, reschedule all loan repayments in
affected areas, and to grant other forms of loan relief to farm-lers under the Prime Minister's
"incentive scheme", thus violating legal covenant which required ADBP to act merely as a
disbursement agent for emergency loans.
16.   Subsidiary Objectives. Despite cancellation of part of the loan component, the project
components for Rural Financial Market study and Land Computerization Programme were
retained for the benefit of future project development in rural finance. The objectives of these
two components were considered critical to the development objective of GOP and the Bank,
namely (i) alleviation of rural poverty through agricultural growth; and (ii) expansion of rural
employment and income through improved financial intermediation and land market. After a
slow start ,the implementation of Rural Financial Market Study has gained momentum. Funds
were released by SBP and the implementing agencieshave carried out the tasks including
identification of villages for study, conduct of village census and finalization of household
questionnaires. Field-level recruitment, training and sample selection were done on time, and
household surveys are being carried out. Similar level of progress was lacking in the case of
economic and financial analysis of the banks. Draft final reports on Rural Financial Market
study and Land Computerization are expected by October 31, 1996.
17.   ADBP's Loan Recovery Performance: Although many of its loanees have been able to
invest loan funds profitably, ADBP has, however,  experienced a worsening financial
condition.The bank has been able to report profits in the past because of relaxation of the
prudential regulations by SBP. ADBP's financial results would really be losses of PRs.1850
million (FY91), PRs.2119 million(FY92), PRS.2729 million (FY93),PRs.2465 million (FY94),
and PRs.642 million (FY94), instead of PRs.115-199 million profits reported from FY91 to
FY95. Its financial viability is still a distant goal. Reasons for this include mounting overdues
requiring heavy provisions for loan losses and reversal of inter-est income which together
accounted for nearly 17% of the gross loan portfolio in FY95. Overdues were equivalent to
about 21 % of the portfolio. In absolute terms, overdues have increased steadily from PRs. 6947
million in FY91 to PRs.12283 million in FY95, representing an annual growth rate of 16%,
outpacing the annual growth of the loan portfolio at 2.5 %.  This clearly underlines the
deterioration in the quality of ADBP's portfolio and the critical importance to the bank to achieve
a marked improvement in loan collection.
18.   Overall loan recoveries have dropped from FY91 when th ey were around 53% to FY95
when they were at 42%. Recoveries out of past dues were only 20% in FY95 reflecting the
difficulty in recovering funds once a borrower goes into default. Recoveries from current dues
were 61 % in FY95 compared to 62% in FY91.
6



19.   The new Chairman appointed last year has recognized these problems and accepted the
challenge to remedy them. He also has the experience, capability. and determination to address
the bank's weaknesses. It is very evident that he has already been able to motivate bank staff
down the line and inspire in them the confidence that they will have full backing in the pursuit of
their tasks. The results of his new initiatives (cash incentive scheme for loan recovery,
decentralization through the establishment of Zonal offices endowed with administrative,
financial and loan sanctioning powers and strict implementation of the linkage of disbursement to
recovery of loans) are encouraging. Overall recovery rate went up by 2% to 44% in FY96. The
recovery rate of agricultural loans alone was better at 52% but this was brought down by the
poor recovery of project loans (6%), thereby bringing the overall rate to 44%
E. Project Impact
20.   As stated earlier, the project's principal objective has not been achieved. ADBP has not
developed into an effective and self-sustaining lending institution. Loan recoveries have dipped
and domestic savings mobilization has remained marginal, all combining to make its reliance on
low-cost funding from SBP increasingly critical for its continued existence. On the positive side,
ADBP has continued its financing of farm investments during the period under review, making it
the country's largest single lender to agricultural borrowers. Project loan funds were allocated
to farm investments allowing greater capital formation and better farm productivity. In addition,
the initiatives undertaken by the current Chairman in conjunction with political commitment to
punish defaulters are likely to create a healthy environment for improved loan recovery and there
is already evidence of higher loan collections ( 30%) in FY96 compared to the previous year.
F. Major Factors Affecting The Project
21.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control.  These included natural
calamities (eg. 1992 floods), rise in prices of diesel engines (for tube-wells) poor demand for
sub-loans from farmers holding below 2.5 ha, and cancellation of disbursed balance of Bank
Loan. As a result, lending volumes did not pick up as targeted.
22.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. These included frequent changes
in Chairman of ADBP, lack of freedom by banks in setting lending rates, reluctance of CBs to
participate in the project, GOP's requirement of ADBP to undertake emergency lending, lack of
political commitment to deal with wilful defaulters and continuation of loan waiver and interest
remission programmes, the policy of GOP in directing ADBP to reschedule loans in calamity
affected areas and lax enforcement of classification and provisioning guidelines. These have
hindered the implementation of the project.
7



23.   Factors Generally  Subject to  Implementing  Agencies' Control. These included
reluctance in savings mobilization, inappropriate equity and maturitv periods for tractor loans,
improper recognition of income on rescheduled loan (even witlhout a single payment of interest
or principal), poor loan recovery, the quality of monitoring of sub-projects being less than
satisfactory, centralization of decision-making powers of regional and branch managers at the
head office level, and political factors in the transfer of regional and branch staff. These factors
have reduced ADBP's liquidity situation and aggravated its already low profitability and
contributed to staff demoralization. These deficiencies haven been recognized by ADBP and
measures have been taken to address them.
G. Project Sustainabilitv
24.   Project sustainability is unlikely since there are several "unfinished businesses" as well
as neglect of critical measures such as liberalization of agricultural interest rates, strict
enforcement of classification and provisioning guidelines, discontinuation of emergency lending
and interest remission programmes and tolerance of wilful defaults. most of which requires GOP
commitment. The need for continued reform in these areas is clear as this project has unmasked
the nature and seriousness of the problems in the agricultural credit sector in particular and in
the financial sector in general. Thus the sustainability of the project hinges largely on GOP's
commitment to undertake the measures that are clearly identified as a result of this project. This
in turn requires genuine ownership of the reform programme by the government to
ensure sustainability.
25.   Another risk to sustainability is the slow progress in strengthening institutional capacity
of banks - ADBP and CBs. The necessary institutional development measures (banking skills
development, training, technical assistance and study tours, involvement of SBP in the
supervision of ADBP, arms length relationship between the government and its banks) require
continued attention. Fundamental changes in the way ADBP operates are a necessary condition
for reform of the agricultural credit system.
H. Outcome
26.   The project's outcome is rated as unsatisfactory on the basis that none of the critical
changes needed to bring the agricultural credit system to a position of viability were
implemented, leading to premature cancellation of the undisbursed balance of the Bank loan.
ADBP is technically insolvent; it does not really meet the stipulated debt-equity requirements
8



under the project, the debt recovery environment has worsened and the proportion of classified
loans is high(about 73% of the outstanding portfolio as on June 30. 96) even under present lax
requirements; the lending rate on the tractor loans is negative until August 93, and the bank has
not stepped up resource mobilization until late 1996.
27.   The outcome of the institutional development component has also been less than
satisfactory. Although training, some technical assistance and study tours have been carried
out, they have not been institutionalized as yet so that the culture within ADBP continues to be
almost the same as before the project.
I. ADBP's Place in Rural Finance
28.   A series of investments have been made in various sectors including irrigation, drainage,
research and extension services in Pakistan. As a result, an effective agricultural credit system
has become essential to facilitate growth in Pakistan's agriculture. Given ADBP's involvement
in agricultural financing in the past, its continued role raises a question as to what impact the
Bank's seven projects have had on the development of sustainable rural financial markets that are
able to provide credit support to agriculture. While this would be fully examined in the on-going
Rural Financial Markets Study, some preliminary cormments are appropriate in this report.
29.   The issue of broadening the rural financial markets has been addressed under the ACP.
At one end of the market, five major commercial banks have been included as participating
agencies which could compete with ADBP in agricultural lending. At the other end of the
market, NGOs involvement was planned in order to reach small borrowers with less collateral
in an effective manner at low cost, thereby integrating them into the financial system. This has,
however, not worked as direct lending to NGOs is not permissible and the management of NGOs
is generally interested in grants or soft loans for onlending to members.
30.   For many decades now, ADBP has been relied upon as the major institutional channel for
providing agricultural credit. The attempt made in the project to involve CBs could not be tested
due to premature termination of ACP. At a meeting with the mission, the representatives of the
commercial banks expressed their commitment to participate in agr-icultural credit in the national
interest. They admit, however, that their institutional cultures which are pro-urban and strongly
profit-oriented need to be appropriately transformed (in nature and degree) before even a limited
success may be achieved. This, at best, is a long term prospect. Therefore, in the short-and
medium-term, ADBP is the only prospective institutional source for rural borrowers. The
question which needs to be seriously addressed is whether ADBP will degenerate into a mere
disburser of hand-outs masquerading as credit; or whether it will assume and assert its desired
9



role of an autonomous provider of credit out of resources which it has itself mobilized as a bank.
Pre-requisites for such a task are a rapid improvement of ADBP's portfolio through sound
lending decisions and strict recovery procedures on new loans: speedy and meaningful actions
for recovery of past dues; resources build-up through a dynamic programme of savings
mobilization; and maintenance of an adequate interest spread to meet administrative costs,
provision for loan losses and reasonable profit.  The present Chairman has accepted these
challenges and introduced measures to tackle them. It is very much hoped that he is given at
least 3-5 years to institutionalize them and turn the bank around.
31.   While heavy reliance is being placed on a re-vitalized ADBP to be the major provider of
agricultural credit into the foreseeable future, it may now be desirable to test out the induction of
private enterprise into this field in suburban and rural areas. Up to about 4 market towns
adjacent to reasonably prosperous farming areas may be offered to local private entrepreneurs to
set up unit banks. Their area of operations would be confined to designated local area. Since
private banking is now accepted national policy, it is believed that there would no objection in
principle to such an experiment.
32.   In the quest for resource mobilization, ADBP appears to be considering moving on to
full-fledged commercial banking on an experimental basis in a few  selected commercial
locations. Apparently, there is no legal bar to its doing so. This move seems neither desirable
nor opportune. It would be more prudent for ADBP to concentrate its energies and resources for
the present at least, on more pressing demands of its current operations including a more
aggressive and vigorous savings mobilization effort.The Chairm-lan confirmed that conmnercial
banking activity will be confined to deposit mobilization and provision of r unning finance(within
bank's charter) which carries a higher rate of interest (20%), allowing the bank to cover the high
cost of agricultural lending.
J. Future Operation
33.   There were no explicit arrangements about the project's future operation. The Bank has
continued its dialogue with GOP through its involvement in Rural Financial Markets Study and
by undertaking credit sector work. Any new operation will have to recognize the need for:
-     profitability of banks;
-     improving debt recovery environment;
-     resource mobilization of ADBP;
-     discontinuation of blanket rescheduling, interest remission and emergency lending
programmes; and
-     reform of agricultural credit interest rates.
10



K. Lessons Learned
34.   The main lessons learned during the project implementation are as follows:
a.    The Bank made a positive contribution to modest improvements in the agricultural
credit delivery system to special target groups and provided long-term funds
needed by ADBP. Nonetheless the project's principal objective of transforming
the agricultural credit system, though laudable, was too ambitious. The lesson is
that the project has overestimated the political will to effect critical changes in
interest rates.
b.    A sector-specific credit project is a weak instrument for addressing problems of
financial viability and financial intermnediation in a sub-sector when the overall
banking system is unsound. The lesson is that a broader financial sector operation
like the ongoing FSDIP is more appropriate.
c.    Institutional weaknesses and financial policy deficiencies need to be addressed
before Bank funds are channelled on a major scale.
d.    The Sixth Agricultural Development Bank Project and the follow-up ACP had
overlapping periods of implementation. This had given less opportunity of
learning from the experience of irnplementing the previous project. The lesson is
that overlapping periods between the first and the follow-up project are best
avoided to learn from the past for better future operations.
e.    It is clear that establishing target loan recovery rates while providing short-term
incentives, if any, is not an adequate response to the underlying problems. The
broad issues impinging on loan operations - liberalizing interest rates,
discontinuation of emergency lending, political commitment to punish wilful
defaulters - also require to be addressed in order to create an environment
conducive to credit activities.
f.    Government ownership  of banks virtually  eliminates  a proper incentive
framework. The lesson is that in an environment such as prevails in Pakistan,
serious consideration should be given to an insistence on privatization. As this
will not be possible in the present state of ADBP, the government should, in the
meantime, provide ADBP full autonomy in all its operations.
11



L. Follow-up
35.   The ICR mission will return to Rome and prepare the relevant parts of the ICR in
accordance with the Bank guidelines for transmittal to the Bank by the end- Sept. 1996. GOP
has been requested to prepare its own evaluation and send it to the Bank office in Islamabad.
Islamabad
2 Sept. 1996
12



APPENDIX B
SUMMARY OF THE REDESIGN PACKAGE FOR THE ADBP COMPONENT
1. The Redesign Package aimed at:
(a)   restoring the financial viability of ADBP' through adoption of stringent business policies
(with focus on smallholder and short-term loans) and financial policies including compliance
with Prudential Regulations, adoption of sound accounting and asset/liability management
policies, making adequate provision for loan losses, and conducting a Portfolio Audit;
(b)   enhancing organizational capability of ADBP by recruiting a critical mass of senior staff with
successful experience and skills in banking and finance, and installing a Management
Information System (MIS);
(c)   rationalizing interest rates on loans made by ADBP by linking these to the Treasury Bill
rates, and removing GOP restrictions on rights of ADBP to set interest rates on its loans; and
(d)   redesigning and giving impetus to the implementation of the Special Programns under ACP.
However, the viability and prospects for successful implementation (including ADBP
Management's commitment) of the Special Programs depend critically on the financial
viability of the ADBP itself.
2.  The major agreements reflected in the Redesign Package were:
(a)   ADBP would achieve a loan recovery rate of 60% in FY93/94 and 70% in FY94/95 before
rescheduling, as against 80% stipulated in the Loan Agreement. ADBP would be eligible for
disbursements only if it achieved the revised loan recovery targets. ADBP would present
satisfactory evidence (such as comparable recovery rates with those of previous years) by
April 30, 1994 to demonstrate that it would achieve loan recovery rate of 60% in FY93/94.
(b)   GOP would take over contingent losses on all past emergency loans of ADBP. In future,
GOP would not direct ADBP to undertake emergency lending or other non-viable credit
programs except as a fiscal agent of GOP.
(c)   Interest rates on ADBP loans would be linked to Treasury Bill rates. GOP would remove
all restrictions on rights of ADBP to set interest rates on its loans from July 1, 1995. The
cost-plus basis of setting interest rates stipulated in the Loan Agreement would be substituted
with this new basis.
(d)   ADBP would adopt stringent business policies to enable it to improve the quality of its loans.
Specific measures would include reduction in the excessive grace and maturity periods,
removal of grace period for interest, requiring borrowers to provide information on their
bank accounts and to make equity contribution, and to continue the prohibition of new project
loans2.
More accurately, stemming the steady deterioration of ADBP's financial condition. IBRD's
analysis suggests that ADBP may be technically insolvent.
2      ADBP did not agree to our proposal to require borrowers to maintain compensating balances
on a reducing basis, or to collateralize their cash balances elsewhere. Such arrangements are
customary in banking relationships with risky clients. ADBP's Loan Recovery reports to us
routinely state that most of ADBP's major loan defaulters are politically powerful wilful
defaulters who maintain healthy balances and service their loan obligations with other
financial institutions.



(e)   ADBP would comply with all applicable SBP Prudential Regulations. SBP would complete
its long pending inspection of ADBP3.
(f)   ADBP would maintain a Debt-to-Equity ratio of no more than 7: 1, and would be current on
its loan repayments to ADBP. SBP rescheduled its loan to ADBP by extending the maturity
of its loans at IBRD's behest4.
(g)   ADBP would hire a team of consultants to assist it to substantially improve its MIS.
(h)   ADBP would hire a team of consultants to assist it conduct a comprehensive audit of its loan
portfolio.
(i)   ADBP would beef up its staffing of experienced finance, accounting and banking
professionals.
(j)   ADBP would conduct a comprehensive review of the Special Programs to strengthen the
design. financing plan, credit policies, implementation arrangements, and management.
3      SBP last inspected ADBP in 1989.
4      We doubt ADBP's ability to meet the new terms of debt service to SBP.
2



ADBP'S COMMENTS ON
FAO/CP MISSION'S DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN NO. 3226-PAK
FAO/CP MISSION'S EVALUATION                                           ADBP'S COMMENTS
Para 1 to 8.   General Description/ Summary.
Para 9.   Overall Achievement.
More than 50% of the Bank Loan was suspended informally         The project which was launched on 12-04-91 was suspended
in May 1993, formally in August 1993 and eventually             on May 5, 1993 and formally cancelled on 29-06-1994. We
cancelled in June 1994. Project implementation assessment   agree to the Mission's assessment that natural calamities
has therefore been focused on the period up to May 1993.    (1992 flood devastation) was the major factor which was
The project has achieved partially its physical and             beyond the control of Govt. of Pak. and executing
gender objectives, but negligibly its institutional,            agencies which impeded the overall achievement of the
financial and sector policy objectives. There were no           project objectives. So far subsidiary objectives i.e
macro policy objectives. Two subsidiary objectives (para    Rural Financial Market Study and Land Record
18) of the project were only partially achieved but the         Computerization Programme components are concerned they
prospects for substantial achievement by October 1996           relate to SBP and Govt. of Punjab.
seem bright with the momentum gained in recent years.
Para 10.  Physical Objectives.
A comparative analysis of targets and achievements of           Comments endorsed
lending volumes and composition as well as deposits
growth and distribution shows that achievements fell
short of targets largely because of the premature
termination of the Loans by the financing agencies (Bank,
IFAD and ADB) and the reluctance of ADBP to mobilize
deposits until late 1996.
Para 11 to 12. Lending Component.
Total loan disbursement by ADBP has expanded from PRs           Comments endorsed
7736 million (97670 loan cases) in FY91 to PRs 7985
million in FY93 (202, 098 loan cases), representing a
nominal growth rate of 1.5% p.a. compared to 16%- achieved
during FY 87-90. Short-term loans have progressively
increased over the period forming 37% in FY93, up by 6-
,   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



from FY91. By the end of FY96, it accounted for almost
60%. In contrast, medium and long-term lending has
steadily declined by 3% p.a. between FY91-93, reaching
nearly 40% by the end of FY96. Relatively better
recoveries, a high proportion of repeat borrowers and
easier disbursement mechanism combined with liquidity
constraints have contributed to greater concentration in
production (short-term) loans. Moreover, lending targets
fixed by the SBP have also contributed to a higher share
of short-term loans in order probably of offset the
decline in production loans by the CBs.
Since FY91, a shift has occurred in the distribution of         As regards the observation on beneficiaries it is
loans towards farmers with 5-10 ha. Analysis of loan            necessary to clarify that the largest share of loan was
disbursement by landholding in FY95 shows that 64% (58%         channeled to subsistence and small farmers i.e at 46% to
in FY91) by number of borrowers and 48% (43% in FY91) by    subsistence and 66% to small farmers (operating land
amount have holdings of less than 5 ha. A further 22%           under 25 ac) during FY91. This was further increased to
(21% in FY91) by number and 30% (23% in FY91) by amount         54% (subsistence) and 79% to Small farmers (under 25 ac)
have holdings between 5-10 ha. Average loan balances            in FY96. Target for subsistence farmers has now been
range for PRs. 79205 in FY91 to PRs.39510 in FY93.              phased out at 75%. Moreover the share of big farmers has
However, the average size had jumped to PRs. 71785 by           remained at 8% (FY96) against 7% share in the number of
FY95. Field observations indicate that the main                 land holdings in the country.
beneficiaries of ADBP are well-to-do farmers.
Para 13.  Deposits Pattern.
The breadth of access to ADBP's deposit services is             ADBP's manpower setup is predominantly composed of agri.
measured by annual growth in deposits and the number of         graduates and allied pursuits due to its specialization
depositors. Deposits decreased from PRs.3,467 million in    in credit and technology. It therefore, lacked the
FY91 to PRs.1,064 million in FY93, representing an annual   infrastructure conducive to effective deposit
negative growth of 45% in nominal terms. However,               mobilization. A much longer period was required to
deposits have picked up during the last two years               prepare the ADBP to bring it to a successful deposit
reaching PRs.2093 million by the end of the fiscal year         mobilization institution. A record deposit mobilization
1996.                                                            (PRs.3467 million) as on 30-06-91 was for a very
temporary period and was not sustainable. Moreover there
was no design available in the project to follow a shift
for deposit mobilization. Cancellation of credit line
further compounded this problem. The bank has recently
evolved a strategy to accelerate resource mobilization
through:
2



a)   Establishment of branches exclusively for
deposit mobilization in business centres of
selected cities. Initially 25 existing branches
have been earmarked for this purpose, of which
five branches are scheduled to start operations
in December 1996.
b)   Upto 20% of its lending (working capital loans)
will be undertaken at close to market rate of
return while  80% of lending for agri. purposes
will be continued at the current relaxed rate
of return.  The bank is also seriously
considering to float new saving schemes with a
maturity of 3 to 5 years. Target for deposit
mobilization for FY97 is Rs 2530 million.
Para 14. Equity and Gender Objectives.
Although equity and gender issues were not explicitly           Innovative approaches like financing of micro-enterprises
stated objectives of the project, the allocation of a           for self employment/poverty alleviation, service to
third of the projected disbursement from the Bank and           farmers with less then 2.5 ha. and enhancing women's
IFAD has highlighted the project to poverty alleviation         access to credit requires adequate institutional set-up
and women's access to credit. The women's component of          and proper human resource development. As covenanted in
the project was planned to start in selected regions (two   the project 42 female MCO's and 25 VAF's were appointed.
branches per region) in all provinces and at the end of         Despite cultural, social and environmental constraints,
the three year project period it was planned to cover all   the ADBP made progress to attain these objectives. While
47 ADBP regions. Lending was also targeted at farmers           the project was leaning to take-off stage, it was
with holdings less than 2.5 ha. Both these activities           cancelled. Even after cancellation of ACP, ADBP continued
were beset with substantial delays and failed to meet           these activities from its own financial resources which
expectations.                                                   demonstrate ADBP's commitment for extending credit and
technology package to target population covering
landless, small land operators and rural women.
Para 15.  Institutional Development Obiectives.                 ADBP is the single largest institutional source of agri.
financing using the modern credit delivery approaches of
An overarching objective of the project was rationalizing   catering to credit needs at the door step of farmers
the development of the agricultural credit system and           through its Mobile Credit Programme.
principally the ADBP into a viable system. This objective
was not achieved. The three key legal covenants relating
3



to agricultural interest rates, loan recovery and                Explanation on three legal covenants (interest rate,
emergency lending which were intended to promote a viable   recovery and emergency lending) are narrated at para 16
credit system for agriculture were persistently violated.   under "Financial Objectives".
Para 16. Financial Objectives.
Contrary to expectations at appraisal, ADBP's financial          The falling trend in recovery has been averted. The
situation has continued to deteriorate for a combination    recovery has risen to 52% in Fy96 against 48t in FY95
of reasons; including dismally declining loan recovery,          with growth of 30% in absolute term. Recovery in next 2
inadequate adjustment of lending rates, particularly for    years is planned to go upto 61% in Fy97 and 63% in Fy98.
tractors, continuation of emergency lending and waiver of   A rational approach has been adopted in lending rate
interest on loans from time to time. This has deepened           which has been already enhanced to 14% w.e.f 25-10-95
its dependence on SBP's funds for new lending.                   against 13.5% in the previous year. Moreover about 18% is
Significantly until late 1996, it was reluctant to               being charged on short term loans for working capital
mobilize its own resources. Consequently, financial              with immediate effect. These rates are equivalent/higher
viability is still a distant goal for ADBP..                     then Treasury Bill Rates as agreed with World Bank in its
redesign package. Regarding the issue of emergency
lending and waiver of interest, the World Bank is fully
abreast about the decision of emergency lending by
Government of Pakistan vide letter dated Nov 1, 1993
(copy enclosed). According to these orders the Govt. of
Pakistan has ensured World Bank that, in future, whenever
ADBP takes emergency loaning in relaxation of its normal
lending procedures under the direction of the Federal
Government, the port-folio would be treated as outside
the Balance Sheet for compensation by the Government.
Similarly, no rescheduling of the loans by ADBP shall be
advised by the Federal/Provincial Governments unless
necessary financial provision is simultaneously made by
the Government concerned. Waiver of interest is being
allowed in highly restricted manner. The growing tendency
of reschedulement has been greatly curbed and the
reschedulement has been scaled down to Rs. 478 million in
FY95 against the record reschedulement of Rs. 4731
million in FY94-95 and Rs. 6130 million in Fy92-93. All
these factors inter-alia will help ADBP to transform it
into a financially viable institution.
Para 17. Sector Policy Obiectives.
The sector policies relevant to the project included the    Same as endorsed against Para-16.
adoption of appropriate interest rates, a higher loan
recovery rate and discontinuation of emergency lending.
4



None of these were implemented despite repeated prodding
by the Bank, ADBP is not charging the rate of return
agreed in FY93 for all of its lending operations
including tractor loans. GOP has only allowed ADBP to
raise interest rates on tractor loans from 8% to 9% p.a
up to July 92. and 109 until July 93 and 119 until August
93, compared to 13.5% pa. for other agricultural lending.
For two consecutive fiscal years during project
implementation. ADBP has not met the 75% loan
recoveryrate (before rescheduling) required under the
Project Agreement to be achieved by June 30, 1991. ADBP's
loan recovery rate before reschedulement worsened to 53%
as of June 30, 1991, and June 30, 1992 and 44% as of June
30, 1993. This has caused recurrent liquidity problems,
consistent defaults on its loans from SBP and erosion of
its own capital. Following floods of July 1992, GOP
instructed ADBP to provide emergency loans to flood
victims, reschedule all loan repayments in affected
areas, and to grant other forms of loan relief to farmers
under the Prime Minister's "incentive scheme", thus
violating legal covenants which required ADBP to act
merely as a disbursement agent for emergency loans.
Para 18. Subsidiary Objectives.
Despite Cancellation of part of the loan component, the         Subsidiary objectives pertain to SBP and Govt. of Punjab.
project components for the Rural Financial Market Study
and the Land Computerization porgramme were retained for
the befefit of future project development in rural
finance.
Para 19. Project Impact.
Loan recoveries have dipped and domestic savings                Funding from SBP has since been over in FY 97 the ADBP
mobilization has remained marginal, all combining to            has already prepared an Action Plan to generate its own
increase its reliance on low-cost funding from SBP              resources and continue its role as lender to farmers from
increasingly critical for its continued existnace. On the   its own resources. The ADBP has continued to maintain its
positive side. ADBP has continued its financing of farm         dominant role in catering to the credit needs of agri.
investments during the period under review. This is             sector. These trends will be kept up under the
initiatives taken by the new management and by attaining
financial viability by bringing quantum jump in recovery,
phased increase in resource mobilization while pursuing a
viable rate of return policy.
5



evidenced by its lending position as the country's
largest single lender to agriculturl borrowers. Project
loan funds were allocated to farm investments allowing
greater capital formation and better farm productivity.
Para 20.  FRR/ERR
Re-estimated financial rates of return (FRR ranged from         Comments endorsed
12% to 26% compared to 13t to 59% at appraisal, while
economic rates of return ranged from 20% to 37% compared
to 14% to 65% at appraisal. The levels of FRR indicate
that most investments could have supported loans at 13.5W
established under the project. In many cases, the poor
recovery of supporting loans should therefore be
attributed more to lack of willingness to repay than the
lack of ability to repay.
Para 21to 22.  Major Factors Affecting The Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control.
These included natural calamities (e.g 1992 flood),    Comments endorsed
rise in prices of diesel engines (for tubewells)
poor demand for sub-loans from farmers holding below
2.5 ha, and cancellation of the undisbursed balance
of Bank Loan. As result, lending volumes did not
pick up as targeted.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control.
These included frequent changes in Chairman of ADBP,   Comments endorsed
lack of freedom, by banks in setting lending rates,
reluctance of CBs to participate in the project,
GOP's requirement for ADBP to undertake emergency
lending without reimbursement of costs, lack of
political commitment to deal with wilful defaulters
and continuation of interest remission programmes,
liberal policy of GOP in directing ADBP to
reschedule loans in calamity affected areas and lax
enforcement of classification and provisioning
guidelines. These have hindered the implementation
of the project.
6



Factors Generally Subject to Imiplementing Agencies'
Control.
These included reluctance in savings mobilization,         The impact of special measures taken by the management to
inappropriate equity and maturity periods for              stimulate the financial viability of ADBP covering steps
tractor loans, improper recognition of interest            to accelerate resource mobilization, boost recovery and
income on rescheduled loans (even without a single         raising of rate of return are being seen in last year's
payment of interest or principal) poor loan                performance explained at para 16. Decentralization and
recovery, the quality of monitoring of sub-projects    posting of 8 Zonal Executives all over the country with
being less than satisfactory, centralization of            full financial, administrative and loan sanctioning
decision-making powers of Regional and Branch              powers is yet another bold step to help in improving,
Managers at the head office level, and political           field operations and over come the so called fallacies in
factors in the transfer of regional and branch             the field. The healthy impact of internal reorganization
staff. These factors have reduced ADBP's liquidity         (Head office and field) will greatly contribute in
situation and aggravated its already low                   successful achievement of ADBP's financial and
profitability and contributed to staff                     operational goals and attainment of financial viability.
demoralization. These deficiencies have been
recognized by ADBP and measures have been or are
being taken to address them.
Para 23.  Project Costs
Actual project cost at project completion was PRs 34429         Comments endorsed.
million (US$1407 million), 32t lower than the appraisal
estimate of PRs. 50,269 million (or US$ 2,283.2 million).
They are not strictly comparable because of the
cancellation of more than 50's of the original loans by
the Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
Para 24.  Project Financing.
The project was financed jointly by the Bank, IFAD and          Despite cancellation of ACP, the OECF loan for 10 billion
ADB. Parallel financing was provided by OECF. Both the          yen was successfully utilized and the project completion
Bank Loan and IDA Credit have lagged well behind actual         report prepared by independent International consultant
expenditures. With the cancellation of US$84 million by         acknowledged its full satisfaction in attainment of
the Bank, the project financed about 43t of total actual    socio-economic benefits of the loan.
expenditure compared to 6.6t of project costs at
appraisal.
7



Para 25.  ADBP's Financial Performance.
As explained in para 20, ADBP's loanees have been able to  As proposed/commented by the World Bank the ADBP has
invest loan funds profitably. ADBP has, however,                already introduced policy actions to reduce the losses
experienced a worsening financial condition. Reasons for    and to enable financial viability and self sustainability
this are not far to seek. Financial profitability of ADBP   based on following strategy.
has long been a matter of serious concern even in the
previously completed projects and during supervision of         (a)  Revision in lending rates from 13.5% to 14%- w.e.f
the Agricultural Credit Project. While it is debatable as            14-10-95. Lending rates on working capital/short-
to whether or not high ADBP profitability is of                      term loan have been revised to 18%. All these rates
overriding importance, it is essential that profits                  are higher than Treasury Bill Rates as recommended
increase sufficiently to restore financial viability.                by the World Bank.
ADBP's reported profits have shown a modest increase from
PRs. 116 million in FY91 to PRs. 195 million in FY95.           (b)  Attainment in quantum jump in recovery proceeds.
Because of mounting overdues (about 21% of its loan
portfolio in FY95). ADBP's profits are largely influenced   (c)  Tighter lending decisions including continuation of
by the annual provision for loan losses and reversal of              linkage of disbursement with recovery.
interest income. ADBP's own assessment indicates that
compliance with SBP's prudential criteria would turn it         (d)  Action plan to step-up deposits.
reported profits into losses amounting to PRS 1,850
million (FY91), PRs 2,113 million (FY 92), PRs. 2,730           (e)  Introduction of economy in operational expenditure.
million (FY93), PRs. 2,465 million (FY94), PRs. 643
million (FY95), making a total cumulative loss of PRs.
9,801 million for the period FY91-95, which is more than
enough to wipe out its entire equity (PRS. 6,429
million). The relaxation by SBP involved the extension of
the overdue period, for purposes of provisioning and
recognition of interest income, from 180 days to 360 days
until FY93 and thereafter requiring ADBP to charge to the
profit and loss account amounts less than what is
required under prudential regulations in order to show
enough profits to meet the debt/equity ratio of 7:1
mandated under the project. This device of window
dressing helps SBP in avoiding capital contribution to
ADBP presumably to put pressure on the bank to recover
its overdues. An important policy issue is the extent to
which these losses should be reduced by ; (a) raising
lending rates, (b) tighter lending decisions and
collection procedures to reduce losses from bad loans and
(c) grater explicit subsidies.
8



Para 26 to 27. ADBP's Loan Recovery Performance.
In absolute terms, overdues have increased steadily from    Action Plan to enhance the pace of recovery in a phased
PRs. 6,947 million in FY91 to PRs. 12,283 million in            manner is explained at para 16.
FY95, representing an annual growth rate of 16%,
outpacing the annual growth of the loan portfolio at
2.5%. Overall loan recoveries have dropped from FY91 when
they were around 53% to FY95 when they were at 421.
Recoveries out of past dues were only 20% in FY95
reflecting the difficulty in recovering funds once a
borrower goes into default. Recoveries from current dues
were 61% in FY95 compared to 62% in FY91. This clearly
underlines the deterioration in the quality of ADBNP's
portfolio and the critical importance to the bank to
achieve a marked improvement in loan collection.
Para 28 to 31. ADBP's Place in Rural Finance
A series of investment have been made in various sectors    ADBP's position as the single largest supplier of
including irrigation, drainage, research and extension          Agricultural Credit in the country and the major source
services in Pakistan. As a result, an effective                 of investment in rural area is fully acknowledged. The
agricultural credit system has become essential to              ADBP's role and contribution as the major source of
facilitate growth in Pakistan's agriculture.                    financer in farm mechanization and bio-chemical
technology is on record. The ADBP management is fully
For many decades now, ADBP has been relied upon as the          cognizant of the challenge to strengthen the financial
major institutional channel for providing agricultural          viability of ADBP and to transform it into a self
credit. The attempt made in the project to involve CBs          sustainable institution over a period of time. Bold and
could not be tested due to the premature termination of         effective steps are already on way to enhance the ADBP's
ACP. At a meeting with the mission, the representatives         role in meeting the credit needs of target population
of the commercial banks expressed their commitment to           covering small and subsistence farmers, women and other
participate in agricultural credit in the national              rural poor through its Supervise Agricultural Credit
interest. They admit, however, that their institutional         Porgramme and other special schemes.
cultures which are pro-urban and strongly profit-oriented
need to be appropriately transformed (in nature and             ADBP is no more a mere disbursing agency. It is promoting
degree) before even a limited success may be achieved.          through recent policy reforms, a culture of timely
This, at best, is a long term prospect. Therefore, in the   repayment of bank dues in order to enable farmers
short and medium-term, ADBP is the only prospective             eligible for more loans. At the same time the concept of
institutional source for rural borrowers. The question          saving mobilizations is being supported. These factors
which needs to be seriously addressed is whether ADBP           are expected to be seen in the Rural Financial Market
will degenerate into a mere disburser of hand-outs              Study sponsored by the World Bank.
9



masquerading as credit; or whether it will assume and
assert its desired role of an autonomous provider of
credit out of resources which it has itself mobilized as
a bank. Prerequisites for such a task are a rapid
improvement of ADBP's portfolio through sound lending
decisions and strict recovery procedures on new loans;
speedy and meaningful actions for recovery of past dues;
resources build-up through a dynamic programme of savings
mobil.ization; and maintenance of an adequate interest
spread to meet administrative costs, provision for loan
losses and a reasonable profit.
Para 32 to 33. Project Sustainability.
Risk to sustainability is the slow progress  in                 The recommendation of the mission that greater autonomy
strengtheining institutional capacity of banks - ADBP and    should be given to ADBP to improve its loan recovery and
CBs. The necessary institutional development measure            upgrade financial viability is fully endorsed. We also
(banking skills development, training, technical                endorse the views as acknowledged by the World Bank that
assistance and study tours, involvement of SBP in the           private sector is not ready to enter into the
supervision of ADBP, arms length relationship between the   agricultural credit field. Moreover it is not conducive
Governmenft and its banks) requires urgent attention. The    in the circumstances where a large number of farmers
fundamental changes in the way ADBP operates are a              (81%) are subsistence operators and the inputs use and
necessary condition for reform of the agricultural credit   productivity of agriculture has yet to grow-up.
system and these changes would not be possible without
its privatization. However, privatization of ADBP in its
present financial condition will not attract potential
investors and continuing emphasis is required in greater
autonomy being given to the bank by GOP to improve loan
recovery and upgrade its financial viability.
10



IBRD 22060
P A  K I S T A  N-,'j                                              , 
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT -
ADBP REGIONAL OFFICES
A    ADBP REGIONAL OFFICES                                (         V
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        Ch 'l -lo        A
o    CITIES AND TOWNS                                       .
NATIONAL ROADS                                              M
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS                                            AoT mergoroo     K
±    AIRPORTS                                                    CAboctoooo A
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                       No  ero
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   (   For ' AC
Koo
RIVERS                                     \       A                        JAMMU and KASHMIR
C  rC a) I'                   ooerkKp ro- 
32 2 awlt)/R'
,.j t F GH tt i 1 T 'tF I '~~~~~~~~-   X\                              .--  
/~~~~ ~~ T/ lraa                                                          />   
X~~~~~~~~~~S                                        ,     ^            C    -.r  7
,50A+.~~~~~~~
S L 4 ./\'1I C    jcl h)'Sl a,                                                 
REPUBLIC OF  -                                                            I'
RA .'                                                   <r    (
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ld 
(       A                                               CoorVur                                       I /~ 
XJ  Turbat                                         A   \   
Buleo,   PtC             :1
A        A                                    ,    ..A
24°
6rI°                              6h'
DECEMBER 1989









IMAGING
Report No.:         16468
Type:      ICR



