Page  1
                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2153 PAK
                   Project Agreement
             (Agricultural Credit Project)
                         among
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          and
                STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
                          and
                  PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
               Dated September 28, 1990
                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2153 PAK
                   PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1990, among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
(SBP) and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB acting by its Governor (Punjab).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,200,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that SBP and Punjab agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by arrangements to be made between the Borrower and SBP
and between the Borrower and Punjab, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to SBP and Punjab on a grant basis; and
     WHEREAS SBP and Punjab, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                       ARTICLE I
                      Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                      ARTICLE II
               Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) SBP and Punjab declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts C and D of the Project, respectively, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, agricultural credit research and data
processing practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Parts C and D of the Project, respectively.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and SBP and Punjab
shall otherwise agree, SBP and Punjab shall carry out Parts C and D
of the Project, respectively, in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     (c)  SBP and Punjab shall, for the purposes of Parts C and D
of the Project, respectively, open and maintain in dollars special
accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Parts C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  SBP and Punjab shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,  plans
and schedules, records and reports and maintenance, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Parts C and D of the Project,
respectively.
     Section 2.04.  (a) SBP and Punjab shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts C and D of the Project, respectively, the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  SBP and Punjab shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts C and D of the Project, respectively, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
SBP and Punjab of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
                        ARTICLE III
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01.  (a) SBP and Punjab shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts C and D of the
Page  3
Project, respectively, of the departments or agencies of SBP and
Punjab responsible for carrying out Parts C and D of the Project,
respectively, or any part thereof.
     (b)  SBP and Punjab shall:
       (i)     have such records and accounts, including those
               for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year
               audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
      (ii)     furnish to the Association as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after
               the end of each such year, the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
     (iii)     furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records and accounts as well as
               the audit thereof, as the Association shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
                      ARTICLE IV
             Effective Date; Termination;
              Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02.  (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SBP and Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
               (i)  the date on which the Development Credit
                    Agreement shall terminate in accordance
                    with its terms; or
               (ii) the date twenty (20) years after the date
                    of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SBP and
Punjab of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                       ARTICLE V
               Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement among the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
     International Development Association
Page  4
     1818 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20433
     United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                         82987 (FTCC)
     For SBP:
          State Bank of Pakistan
          I.I Chundrigar Road
          P.O. Box 4456
          Karachi, Pakistan
          Cable address:           Telex:
               PAK MONEY                2754 SBP PK
     For Punjab:
          Planning and Development Board
          Government of Punjab
          Lahore, Pakistan
          Cable address:           Telex:
               DEVELOPMENT              952-44868
               Lahore, Pakistan         Punjab Secretariat
                                        Lahore, Pakistan
     Section 5.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SBP and Punjab, or by SBP and Punjab on
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may
be taken or executed, in the case of SBP, by the Executive Director
in-charge of the Agriculture Credit Department, and in the case of
Punjab, by the Director, Revenue Academy, Punjab or such other
person or persons as they shall designate in writing, and they shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts,  each of which shall be an original,  and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America,  as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ M. Wiehen
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                             Europe, Middle East and North Africa
               STATE BANK OF PAKISTAN
               PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
               By /s/ M. Afzal
Page  5
                              Authorized Representative
                        SCHEDULE 1
         Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $100,000 for each of SBP and Punjab, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines,  in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account,  such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist SBP and Punjab in carrying out Parts C and
D of the Project, SBP and Punjab shall employ research and data
Page  6
processing consultants,  respectively,  whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                        SCHEDULE 2
                Implementation Program
1.   SBP's Implementation Arrangements
     (a)  Responsibility for implementing Part C of the Project
shall be assigned to SBP's Agricultural Credit Department.
     (b)  A Research Advisory Committee (RAC) shall be constituted
not later than September 30,  1990 to guide the planning and
implementation of research under Part C of the Project and to
disseminate the results of such research among policy makers.  RAC
shall be chaired by a representative of SBP, which shall also
provide a secretariat for RAC,  and shall include, as members,
representatives of the PBC,  ADBP,  NCBs,  Federal Bank for
Cooperatives, research institutes and universities.
2.   Punjab's Implementation Arrangements
     Responsibility for implementing Part D of the Project shall be
assigned to the Director of the Revenue Academy in Lahore under the
supervision of the Punjab Revenue Board.  The Director shall be
assisted by two tehsildars (revenue officers) to be appointed at the
district level not later than December 31, 1990.
