LOAN NUMBER 3226 PAK
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
and
ALLIED BANK LIMITED
and
HABIB BANK LIMITED
and
MUSLIM COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
and
NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN LIMITED
and
UNITED BANK LIMITED
D ted                             , 1990


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3226 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       T.dI/e-4fl>4-          , 1990, among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
and AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (ADBP) and ALLIED
BANK LIMITED (ABL) and HABIB BANK LIMITED (HBL) and MUSLIM
COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED (MCB) and NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN
LIMITED (NBP) and UNITED BANK LIMITED (UBL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-eight
million five hundred thousand dollars ($148,500,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that ADBP, ABL, HBL, MCB, NBP and UBL (the Participating
Credit Institutions or PCIs) agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and PCIs, the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to PCIs on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS PCIs, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) PCIs declare their commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B and E of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
agricultural credit practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Parts A, B and E of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and PCIs shall otherwise
agree, PCIs shall carry out Parts A, B and E of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the proceeds
of the Loan relent to PCIs for purposes of Part A of the Project
shall be on-lent by them to the beneficiaries under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall
include: (i) for credit extended by ADBP, rates of return set
forth in, or otherwise determined from time to time pursuant to,
Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; and (ii) for credit
extended by NCBs, rates of return determined from time to time
pursuant to Section 4.10 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A, B and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. PCIs shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
their respective areas of responsibility under Parts A, B and E of
the Project.
Section 2.04. PCIs shall duly perform all their obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Except as the Bank shall


﻿-3-
otherwise agree, PCIs shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provisions thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) PCIs shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A, B
and E of the Project, the performance of their obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PCIs shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A, B and E of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of Loan, or the performance by PCIs of their obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PCIs
shall not utilize any of the proceeds of the Loan for financing
credit under non-interest based financing modes other than hire-
purchase, mark-up, leasing, mark-down and buy-back.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PCIs
Section 3.01. PCIs shall carry on their operations and
conduct their affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and agricultural credit practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. PCIs shall at all times operate and maintain
their plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural credit practices.
Section 3.03. PCIs shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-4
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) PCIs shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
their operations and financial condition, including separate
accounts for Parts A, B and E of the Project.
(b) PCIs shall:
(i) have their records, accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of their
financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ADBP shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such
debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 7:1.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ADBP
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the


﻿-5-
extent, the amount of such debt has become
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of ADBP not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bak.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree.
ADBP shall at all times charge rates of return or service charge
on financing provided by it which shall be positive in real terms
within the meaning of Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement and which
shall be sufficient to enable it:
(i) to cover all its operating expenditures and
charges, including taxes, if any, and interest
payments, returns and service charges on
borrowings;
(ii) to make provision for bad debts and maintain such
provision at a ratio to total overdues of not less
than 40% but in any case not below the level
prescribed in SBP's prudential regulations; and
(iii) to accumulate reserves which shall be adequate to
ensure, in conjunction with the Borrower's
contributions to ADBP's paid-up capital, that
ADBP's ratio of debt to equity is not greater than
7:1 as required under Section 4.02 of this
Agreement.


﻿-6-
(b) Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) of this
Section, ADBP shall charge:
(i) on all outstanding balances of funds advanced on
the basis of service charge, a service charge at
the rate prescribed by SBP; and
(ii) on funds advanced on the basis of hire-purchase,
leasing, mark-up or other such non-interest based
financing mode: (aa) in FY 91, a rate of return of
not less than twelve percent (12%) per annum; (bb)
in FY 92, a rate of return of not less than
thirteen percent (13%) per annum; and (cc) in FY 93
and in each fiscal year thereafter, a rate of
return as agreed by the Borrower, ADBP and the Bank
following the relevant annual review of ADBP's
financial position carried out pursuant to Section
4.04 (a) of this Agreement, plus, in each case, a
charge of at least three percent (3%) of each
installment of principal due, which charge may be
waived in cases where installments are paid within
thirty calendar days of the due date.
Section 4.04. (a) ADBP shall take appropriate measures each
year to achieve a level of profits adequate to fund its reserves
as required under Section 4.03 (a) (iii) of this Agreement.   To
this end, ADBP shall:
(i) not later than December 31 in each year, review its
past and projected income and profit generating
capacity and, on the basis thereof, develop
proposals for the measures to be taken to achieve
the said levels of profits;
(ii) not later than March 31 in the following year,
obtain the concurrence of the Borrower and the Bank
to such proposals; and
(iii) thereafter, but not later than the following
July 1, implement such proposals.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ADBP shall not
pay out dividends in any year in which its profits fall short of
the level required to fund its reserves as required under Section
4.03 (a) (iii) of this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ADBP
shall:
(a) report its income for each fiscal year on an accrual
accounting basis as income earned, irrespective of cash received,
on loans classified as performing loans in accordance with SBP's
prudential regulations;
(b) in cases of early repayment of financing made available
on the basis of profit-and-loss sharing, hire-purchase, leasing,
mark-up, service charge or other such non-interest based financing
mode, calculate and collect the outstanding principal and income
on the basis of the principal outstanding as reduced by the
installment or installments of the principal paid up to the time
of such early repayment; and
(c) apply, at the end of each fiscal year, a permanent
write-off policy, in compliance with SBP's prudential regulations
and satisfactory to the Bank, of writing-off long overdue loans
and other financing.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ADBP
shall limit its short-term credit financing to twenty-five percent
(25%) of all its lending and other financing.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ADBP
shall limit its credit financing under non-interest based
financing modes other than hire-purchase, leasing, mark-up, mark-
down and buy back, to no more than one percent (1%) of all of
ADBP's lending and other financing.
Section 4.08. (a) ADBP shall take all measures necessary to
reach under its agricultural credit operations a recovery rate,
stated as a ratio of ADBP's total recoverables before rescheduling
for each fiscal year under such operations, of at least 75% by
June 30, 1991, and at least 80% by June 30, 1993.
(b) For purposes of this Section, the term "total
recoverables" means in respect of a given fiscal year, the sum of
the amounts overdue at the beginning of such fiscal year and the
amounts falling due during such fiscal year.
Section 4.09. ADBP shall modify its credit targetting system
so as to ensure that:


﻿- 8 -
(a) out of the total credit disbursements made through the
MCO system, at least the following proportions are directed at
small-holder farmers with less than 2.5 ha. of land and the
landless: (i) in FY 91, 10%; (ii) in FY 92, 15%; and (iii) in FY
93, and in each fiscal year thereafter, 20%; and
(b) out of the total credit disbursements made through the
MCO (intensification) system, at least the following proportions
are so directed: (i) in FY 91, 15%; (ii) in FY 92, 20%; and (iii)
in FY 93, and in each fiscal year thereafter, 25%.
4.10. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NCBs
shall charge rates of return on agricultural credit extended by
them which shall from July 1, 1990, be at least positive in real
terms within the meaning of Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement,
and which shall:
(i) from that date, be not less than seven percent (7%)
per season of not more than eight months for crops
other than sugar cane and not less than ten percent
(10%) per annum for sug4: cane;
(ii) from July 1, 1991, be at least sufficient to cover
the cost of funds and reasonable administrative
costs, all insofar as attributable to NCBs'
agricultural credit operations; and
(iii) from July 1, 1992, be at least sufficient to cover
the cost of funds, reasonable administrative costs,
adequate provisions for expected loan losses, and a
reasonable margin of profit, all insofar as
attributable to NCBs' agricultural credit
operations.
(b) Each NCB shall: (i) not later than December 31 in each
year beginning 1990, review its rate of return structure to
determine whether such structure continues to be adequate in light
of the requirements of paragraph (a) above; (ii) not later than
March 31 in the following year, obtain the concurrence of the
Borrower and the Bank to any recommendation for a change in such
structure resulting from such review; and (iii) thereafter, but in
any case not later than the following July 1, implement such
recommendation as concurred to by the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-9-
(c) Each NCB shall, not later than September 30, 1990,
strengthen its cost accounting capability, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, so as to enable it to effectively carry
out reviews of its rate of return structure pursuant to paragraph
(b) above.
Section 4.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NCBs
shall limit their agricultural credit financing under non-interest
based financing modes to hire-purchase, leasing, mark-up, mark-
down and buy-back.
Section 4.12. (a) PCIs shall, not later than July 1, 1990,
require farmers applying for credit for:
(i) farm tractors, farm implements and private minor
irrigation, to contribute toward the investment
costs not less than 15% of such costs, if they own
10 ha. or less of land; not less than 20% of such
costs, if they own between 11 and 20 ha. of land;
and not less than 25% of such costs, if they own
more than 20 ha. of land; and
(ii) private minor irrigation, to contribute toward the
investment costs not less than 10% of such costs,
if they own less than 5 ha. of land.
(b) PCIs shall, not later than September 30 in each year,
beginning 1991, review, in consultation with the Bank, their
requirements for equity contributions by farmers applying for
credit for farm tractors, farm implements and private minor
irrigation.
Section 4.13. (a) NCBs shall, not later than July 1, 1990,
decrease their minimum land-ownership requirement for farm
tractors from 10 to 5 ha.
(b) PCIs shall, not later than September 30 in each year,
beginning 1991, review, in consultation with the Bank, their
minimum land-ownership requirements for farm tractor credit.
Section 4.14. PCIs shall extend agricultural credit only for
such investment projects as have been adequately appraised in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and with
particular regard to financial viability, benefits to be derived
and product marketability.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.15. PCIs shall recruit all additional staff
required for Parts A, B and E of the Project on merit, through
open competition and with the concurrence of the departments to
which such staff are to be assigned.
Section 4.16. PCIs shall, in consultation with the Borrower
and the Bank, carry out a mid-term review of Parts A, B and E of
the Project, not later than June 30, 1992, and shall thereafter
make such adjustments in the activities to be carried out under
Parts A, B and E of the Project and the related organizational and
operational arrangements as are agreed with the Bank in light of
the conclusions of the review.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of PCIs thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify PCIs thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿- 11 -
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For ADBP:
Agricultural Development
Bank of Pakistan
One Faisal Avenue
P.O. Box 1400
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:                   Telex:
AGRIFIN                       5618
Islamabad
For ABL:
Allied Bank Limited
I.I. Chundrigar Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Telex:
24746


﻿- 12 -
For HBL:
Habib Bank Limited
I. I. Chundrigar Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Telex:
2786
For MCB:
Muslim Commercial Bank Limited
Adamjee House
I.I. Chundrigar Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Telex:
24750
For NBP:
National Bank of Pakistan Limited
I.I. Chundrigar Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Telex:
23732
For UBL:
United Bank Limited
9th Floor, State Life Building No. 1
Karachi, Pakistan
Telex:
32182
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PCIs, or by PCIs on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by their Chief
Executive Officers or such other person or persons as their Chief
Executive Officers shall designate in writing, and their Chief


﻿- 13 -
Executive Officers shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe ,Widdle East and North Africa
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
ALLIED BANK LIMITED
HABIB BANK LIMITED
MUSLIM COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN LIMITED
UNITED BANK LIMITED
Byiv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, equipment and vehicles
for Part E of the Project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extend practicable, contracts for goods for Part E of
the Project shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All items financed by PCIs under Parts A and B of the Project
may be procured through normal commercial channels.
2.   Equipment required under Part E of the Project which cannot
be grouped in accordance with the provisions of Part A.2 hereof
and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $750,000, in the case of ADBP, and $250,000, in the case of
NCBs, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract to be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Part A hereof, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist PCIs in devising new and improving
existing credit programs, preparing and implementing staff
training programs, and undertaking institutional improvements,
PCIs shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.   ADBP's Implementation Arrangements
1.   Organizational Structure
(a) ADBP shall, not later than September 30, 1990:
(i) establish, within its Credit Division, a small-
holder farmers/landless wing, a women's credit
wing, a pilot projects wing, and a small-scale
enterprise wing, all suitably staffed and equipped,
to assist in carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project; and
(ii) create, within its Technology Division, a small-
scale machinery wing and a women's technology wing,
all suitably staffed and equipped, to assist in
transferring to the beneficiaries new technology
relevant to small-scale enterprises and time-saving
devices financed under Parts A and B of the
Project.
(b) ADBP shall ensure that:
(i) the organization and management study to be carried
out under Part E (ii) (j) of the Project will be
completed not later than December 31, 1991;
(ii) the findings of such study shall be reviewed with
the Borrower and the Bank not later than June 30,
1992; and
(iii) the recommendations of such study as agreed during
such review shall be implemented not later than
December 31, 1992.
(c) ADBP shall, not later than September 30, 1990, modify
its general ledger system so as to identify borrowers who are
small-holder farmers, the landless and women under separate ledger
heads from other borrowers,


﻿- 17 -
2.   Staff Requirements
ADBP shall:
(a) recruit, as necessary, or reassign, and train
additional MCOs so as to increase its MCO force to
1,590 (including 90 female MCOs) by June 30, 1991,
to 1,830 (including 180 female MCOs) by June 30,
1992, and to 2,000 (including 282 female MCOs) by
June 30, 1993; and
(b) recruit and train female VAs so as to have a female
VA force of 90 by June 30, 1991, of 270 by June 30,
1992, and of 552 by June 30, 1993.
3.   Enabling Action
ADBP shall, not later than December 31, 1990, adopt measures,
satisfactory to the Bank, and, where necessary, request the
Borrower to issue an official gazette notification, so as to
enable ADBP to:
(a) extend short-, medium- and long-term credit to
small-holder farmers, the landless and women
pursuant to schemes established under Part B of the
Project;
(b) undertake lending to or through NGOs pursuant to
schemes established under Part B of the Project;
(c) extend credit to finance time-saving devices under
Parts A and B of the Project; and
(d) receive deposits through MCOs and MDOs under any
scheme for mobilization of rural savings adopted
under Part B of the Project.
4.   Rural Savings Mobilization Action Plan
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ADBP shall
ensure that the rural savings mobilization action plan to be
prepared under Part E (ii) (e) of the Project will contain targets
which require deposits or other long-term resources mobilized in
each fiscal year to grow by not less than 20% over the stock of


﻿- l8 -
deposits or other long-term resources for the preceding fiscal
year, calculated as the average of deposits existing during 1-he
second through the eleventh months of such fiscal year.
(b) ADBP shall ensure that such action plan will be:
(i) prepared and furnished to the Bank, for its review,
not later than March 31, 1991; and
(ii) implemented, as agreed with the Bank, not later
than June 30, 1991.
B.   NCBs' Implementation Arrangements
5.   Organizational Structure
Each NCB shall, not later than December 31, 1990, establish
an organizational structure, satisfactory to the Bank, under
which:
(a) primary responsibility for project implementation shall
be assigned to each provincial headquarters, with some delegation,
as necessary, to the circle and zonal offices;
(b) ACOs shall report directly to the zonal offices, where
senior ACOs shall be assigned to supervise them; and
(c) accounts at the zonal offices shall be computerized.
6.   Staff Requirements
NCBs shall recruit, as necessary, or reassign, and train
additional ACOs so as to increase their ACO force to 590 by
June 30, 1991, to 790 by June 30, 1992, and to 982 by June 30,
1993, excluding in each case the NCBs' requirements of ACOs for
the purposes of the on-going National Oilseed Development Project
(Loan No. 2973-PAK; Credit No. 1931-PAK).
7.   Coordination of Project Activities
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NGBs shall
coordinate the appointment of consultants and the submission of
withdrawal applications and progress reports to the Bank under
Parts A and B of the Project through PBC.


﻿- 19 -
C.   Credit Ceilings
8.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) short term credits advanced by ADBP to the landless or
beneficiaries owning 2.5 ha. of land or less under Part A.3 of the
Project shall be subject to the monetary limit of Rs. 15,000 per
credit per beneficiary; and
(b) medium- and long-term credits advanced by PCIs to the
landless or beneficiaries owning 2.5 ha. of land or less under
Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project shall be subject to the following
monetary limits per credit per beneficiary: (i) for livestock
(dairy), Rs 35,000; (ii) for livestock (sheep/goats), Rs. 15,000;
(iii) for poultry, Rs. 25,000; (iv) for orchard development, Rs.
20,000; (v) for vegetable farming, Rs. 15,000; and (vi) for rural
small-scale enterprises, Rs. 50,000.
D.   Linkage with Extension Services
9.   Credit-Extension Coordination Committee
(a) ADBP shall, not later than December 31, 1990, establish
a Credit-Extension Coordination Committee (CECC), composed of
ADBP's Executive Director, Technology, as chairman, and ADBP's
Executive Director, Credit, senior officials of NCBs, SBP, the
Borrower's Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives, and the
Directors General of Extension and Livestock of the Borrower's
provinces, as members.
(b) CECC shall meet at least once a year and more frequently
as necessary to review agricultural credit-extension linkages at
the field level and to recommend policy measures for improving
such linkages.   CECC shall also develop the modalities for the
participation of agricultural credit staff in extension programs
pursuant to paragraph 10 below.
10. Credit Staff Participation in Extension Programs
PCIs shall, not later than March 31, 1991, make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, for participation by M'0s, ACOs and
other regional technical staff in extension training programs
carried out at the tehsil and district levels in the Borrower's
provinces.


﻿- 20 -
E.   Use of Pesticides and Fertilizer
11. PCIs shall require the beneficiaries applying for credit
under Part A of the Project and found to be using pesticides
and/or fertilizer in a manner which is unsafe or harmful to the
environment to take corrective measures satisfactory to the Bank
in order to be eligible for such credit.
F.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
12. Pursuant to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, PCIs
shall, not later than thirty (30) days after the end of each
quarter, beginning with the quarter ending September 30, 1990,
furnish to the Bank monitoring and evaluation reports on Parts A,
B and E of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


