CREDIT NUMBER 2153 PAY
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2153 PAK
DEVELOP1ENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   A     ,IoTA ",6  by it      1990, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President          (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of Parts C and D of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide
additional financial assistance toward the financing of Parts A, B
and E of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank
is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to one hundred forty-eight million five hundred
thousand dollars ($148,500,000) (the Loan);
(C) Parts C and D of the Project will be carried out by the
the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) and Province of Punjab (Punjab),
respectively, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SBP and Punjab the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association and
SBP and Punjab;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preambe
to this Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth, except the term "Project Agreement" as
defined in the Loan Agreement, and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, SBP and Punjab of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for Parts A, B and E of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement;
(c) "SEP Special Account" means the account which SBP shall
open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement
and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(d) "Punjab Special Account" means the account which Punjab
shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement; and
(e) "Special Accounts" means collectively the SBP Special
Account and the Punjab Special Account, and "Special Account"
means each or any of those ac!ounts individually.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the


﻿- 3 -
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts C and D
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts C and D of
the Project, cause SBP and Punjab to open and maintain in dollars
special accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing November 1, 2000 and ending May 1, 2025. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1,
2010 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. The Executive Director in charge of the
Agriculture Credit Department, SBP and the Director, Revenue
Academy, Punjab are designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Parts C and D of
the Project, respectively.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SBP and Punjab to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
of SBP and Punjab therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
SBP and Punjab to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to SBP and Punjab on a grant basis.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Parts C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06
and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Parts C and D of the
Project shall be carried out by SBP and Punjab, respectively,
pursuant to Sectiou 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit


﻿- 7 -
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) SBP or Punjab shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SBP or
Punjab will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The State Bank of Pakistan Act, 1956, of the Borrower
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SBP to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SBP or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)  (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Loan
Agreement, or
(B) the Loan shall have have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under the Loan Agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to


﻿- 8 -
the Borrower from other sources on terms and con-
ditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by SBP and Punjab, and is
legally binding upon SBP and Punjab in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the
provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of that Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECONOMIC                         ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          A    Y
By        Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11l -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Categogy              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
vehicles for:                              expenditures,
100% of local
(a) SBP                    110,000         expenditures
(ex-factory
(b) Punjab                 110,000         cost) and 60%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2) Consultants'                                80% for consul-
services and                               tants' services
training for:                              and 100% for
training
(a) SBP                     70,000
(b) Punjab                 140,000


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3) Incremental
administrative
expenditures for:
(a) SBP                    570,000         70% until an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 190,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, 50%
thereafter and
until an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
SDR 380,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, and
30% thereafter
(b) Punjab                 130,000         70% until an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 45,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, 50%
thereafter and
until an aggre-
gate amount
equivalent to
SDR 90,000 has
been disbursed
from this
Category, and
30% thereafter
(4) Unallocated                  70,000
TOTAL                1,200,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental administrative expenditures" mcars
expenditures for the salaries, allowances and other emoluments of
staff recruited, and the operating costs of vehicles procured
utilizing the proceeds of the Credit, for the purposes of Parts C
and D of the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 100,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (a) and
(3) (a), and in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 50,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (b) and
(3) (b), all on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after January 1, 1990; and (b) payments made for
expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b) and (3) (b), unless
and until the PC-i document for Part D of the Project shall have
been approved by Punjab.


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to continue to assist the
Borrower in developing a viable agricultural credit system and to
consolidate the gains already made in that direction, and, to
those ends: (a) to provide financial support for ADBP's credit
operations and for NCBs' agricultural credit operations; (b) to
enhance the institutional capabilities of PCIs so as to enable
them to deliver credit to an increasing proportion of the rural
community, including small-holder farmers, the landless and women,
and to become more efficient in credit supervision and collection;
(c) to enable ADBP to expand its resource base by developing its
rural deposit generating capabilities; and (d) to establish a
policy environment conducive to efficient financial intermediation
and to the existence of increasingly viable financial institutions
in the agricultural credit sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Credit QOerations
1.   Provision of medium- and long-term credit through PCIs to
finance:
(a) medium-horsepower tractors, primary and secondary culti-
vation and seeding equipment, and general farm
machinery, including threshers and reapers;
(b) private minor irrigation, including construction or
improvement of tube-wells (including in turn, the provi-
sion and installation of pumps and the provision of
power connections, where needed), improvements in spring
water utilization, and on-farm water management;
(c) dairy development, including provision of buffaloes and
cows, sheds, equipment, veterinary supplies, feed and
inputs for fodder-crop production;
(d) sheep and goat production for stock, including provision
of shelter, feed and inputs for fodder-crop production;
(e) poultry production, including provision of broiler and
layer units for chicks, sheds, equipment and feed;


﻿- 15 -
(f) orchard development, including provision of seedlings,
plantings and other orchard establishment needs and
maintenance during the pre-fruit bearing stage;
(g) vegetable farming, including supply and installation of
mini- and walk-in tunnels, with polythene and shade-
netting, and power sprayers, and provision of farm-to-
market transportation, and minor crop development; and
(h) other on-farm development, including land levelling,
construction and lining of water courses, carrying out
of aquaculture, social forestry and tree-planting, api-
culture, silviculture and floriculture, and provision of
miscellaneous on-farm implements and equipment.
2.   Provision of medium- and long-term credit through ADBP to
finance:
(a) rural small-scale enterprises and other income-
generating activities, including provision of small-
scale machinery and tools for fruit-and nut-processing,
carpet-weaving, knitting, weaving, sewing, handicraft
production, and crop and wood processing; and
(b) time-saving devices, which contribute directly or
indirectly to increased agricultural productivity,
including processing machines like wool corders,
spinning wheels, butter churners, nut crackers, spice
grinders and juicers, corn huskers, rice hullers, oil
nut-pressers, and fodder cutters; household technology
items like more efficient stoves and handpumps; and fuel
sources like butane, compact sawdust and prepared animal
feeds.
3.   Provision of short-term credit through ADBP to finance:
(a) crop production, including land-levelling, provision of
seasonal inputs such as seeds, fertilizer and pesti-
cides, tractor-hire and harvesting and processing;
(b) livestock and poultry production and processing, includ-
ing provision of feed, medicines, chicks and inputs for
fodder-crop production; and
(c) working capital for rural small-scale enterprises and
other income-generating activities, including for
provision of agricultural, livestock and semi-processed


﻿- 16 -
products, intermediate processing, packaging and
marketing, hired labor and/or energy costs, provision of
accessories or replacement parts, supply of product
design materials such as pattern books, manufacturers'
catalogs and carpet-weaving patterns, and equipment
repair costs.
Part B:   New Agricultural Credit and Rural Savings Mobilization
Schemes
Adoption by ADBP, on a pilot basis, and in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, of schemes for: (i) providing
short-, medium-and long-term credit to small farmers, the landless
and women based on new forms of security; ii) providing credit
through NGOs or to borrowers identified through NGOs; and (iii)
mobilizing rural savings through deposits received by MCOs or
newly-instituted mobile deposit officers (MDOs).
Part C:   Agricultural Credit Research
Carrying out of: (i) a rural credit survey, to focus parti-
cularly on farm credit practices, questions of access to institu-
tional credit and characteristics of the informal credit market;
(ii) a study of women's participation in decision-making in agri-
cultural, non-agricultural and domestic affairs; and (iii) studies
on specific policy issues, including causes of credit delinquency,
costs of and returns on agricultural credit, and impact of
directed credit programs.
Part D:   Computerization of Land Records
Computerization, on a pilot basis, of land records in the
Kasur district of Punjab.
Part E:   Institutional Development Assistance
Strengthening of PCIs through:
(i) provision of equipment, vehicles and additional
staff;
(ii) provision of technical assistance, to assist ADBP
in: (a) devising new and improving existing credit
programs, inter alia, for farm mechanization,
private minur irrigation, fruit, vegetable and
minor crop farming, and aquaculture; (b) devising
new credit programs for schemes for lending to


﻿- 17 -
small farmers, the landless and women and for
lending through NGOs; (c) reviewing credit
appraisal procedures; (d) devising crop insurance
programs; (e) preparing and implementing a rural
savings mobilization action plan; (f) designing
computer application systems; (g) developing
beneficiary training programs for new credit
initiatives in the crops, livestock and small-scale
enterprises development areas; (h) developing
induction, in-service and environmental training
programs for MCOs and female VAs; (i) developing a
streamlined and more efficient accounting system,
including a modified general ledger system; (j)
preparing an organization and management study; and
(k) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation
arrangements;
(iii) provision of technical assistance, to assist NCBs
in: (a) developing and implementing a management
information system, including a monitoring and
evaluation capability; (b) developing cost-
accounting capability; and (c) developing an
environmental training program for ACOs;
(iv) carrying out of: (a) induction training of all new
female MCOs at ADBP's staff colleges and for female
VAs at ADBP's regional offices; (b) in-service
training of ADBP's regional managers, branch
managers and male MCOs in the special requirements
of credit programs for women; (c) additional
training of ADBP's regional managers, branch
managers, MCOs (both male and female), and female
VAs in the special requirements and operation of
credit programs for lending to small-holder
farmers, the landless and women and for lending
through NGOs; and (d) training of MCOs/ACOs in
environmental matters; and
(v) provision of fellowships and study tours for short-
term training, both local and overseas, of PCI
staff, including staff college instructors and


﻿- 18 -
trainers, officers from headquarters, regional/
zonal and branch managers, and MCOs/ACOs, both male
and female.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts C and D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
SBP, an amount equivalent to $130,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the SBP Special Account, and, in
respect of Punjab, an amount equivalent to $70,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Punjab Special
Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, SBP or
Punjab, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Association a
request or requests for a deposit. or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of SBP
or Punjab, as the case may be, withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as SBP
or Punjab, as the case may be, shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, SBP or
Punjab, as the case may be, shall furnish to the
Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 20 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, SBP
or Punj ab, as the case may be, shall furnish to
the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf SBP
or Punjab, as the case may be, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount as SBP or Punjab, as the case
may be, shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by SBP or Punjab, as the case may be,
out of a Special Account, SBP or Punjab, as the case may be,
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by SBP or Punjab, as
the case may be, directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part C or D of the
Project, as the case may be, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part C or D
of the Project, as the case may be, shall equal the equivalent of
$260,000 or $140,000, as the case may be, twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation in each case.


﻿- 21 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for Part C or D of the Project, as the case may be,
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to SBP or Punjab, as the case may be. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, SBP or Punjab, as the case may be,
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into such Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall
be made until SBP or Punjab, as the case may be, has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, SBP
or Punjab, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
(c) SBP or Punjab, as the case may be, may, upon notice to
the Association, refund to the Association all or any portion of
the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


