                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                               Report No: 78141




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                      OF
                   STRATEGIC ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                             LOAN 4834-IND / 7786-ID
                                 JULY 6, 2006


                                                TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                                             May 16, 2013




Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Regional Vice President:       Axel van Trotsenburg
      Country Director:        Stefan Koeberle
       Sector Manager:         George Soraya
     Task Team Leader:         Mitsuyoshi Asada




                           2
Restructuring                                                                           Status: Final
Restructuring Type: Level two
Last modified on date : 05/16/2013

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                          P079906: ID-Strategic Roads Infrastructure
Country                                    Indonesia
Task Team Leader                           Mitsuyoshi Asada
Sector Manager/Director                    George Soraya
Country Director                           Stefan G. Koeberle
Original Board Approval Date               07/06/2006
Original Closing Date:                     12/31/2011
Current Closing Date                       06/30/2013
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]      12/31/2013
EA Category                                A-Full Assessment
EA Completion Date                         11/11/2003
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                                Original                      Revised
BORR                                                       79.00                          79.00
IBRD                                                      206.46                         191.46
Total                                                     285.54                         270.46


3. Borrower
         Organization                      Department                            Location
Republic of Indonesia                                               Indonesia


4. Implementing Agency
          Organization                     Department                           Location
Ministry of Public Works                                           Indonesia


5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 04/10/2013                                                 153.54
         Fiscal Year                         Annual                             Cumulative
2013                                                    0.00                             153.54
2014                                                  37.92                              191.46
                                                    Total                                191.46



                                            3
6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                              N


Does the restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select            N
from the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.




7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The objective of the Project is to improve economic competitiveness by reducing traffic congestion on key
economic corridors in the Borrower's islands of Java and Sumatra and increase the efficiency, quality and
transparency of civil works procurement and implementation in the Ministry of Public Works.



7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes [if applicable]




                                                4
          STRATEGIC ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (SRIP)

                               RESTRUCTING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

The project is nearly completed and performance is in the satisfactory range. The project
requires the following changes for completion of all ongoing investment activities and
orderly closure of the loan: (a) extension of the closing date by six months, to December
31, 2013, (b) dropping one of the activities related to improvement of road safety and
institutional development, and shifting the proceeds to other activities within the same
subcomponent, and (c) cancellation of $15 million of the loan that is no longer required
to complete the planned road improvement works.
B. PROJECT STATUS

The most recent ISR rated both PDO and Overall IP (as well as most secondary ratings)
as Moderately Satisfactory. No ratings were lower than MS. Safeguard compliance is
Satisfactory, and there are no outstanding or unsatisfactory audit reports.

Disbursements as of March 31, 2013 are 74.4% of the original loan amount, and would
be 80.2% of the revised amount after the proposed partial cancellation. Currently the
formally revised disbursement lag is about 20 percent (6 months).

The project objectives remain achievable and the Bank and Borrower have agreed to a
specific timetable and plan of action for completing all project activities. The
implementation of the remaining civil works will be monitored by submission of monthly
progress report by the Sub-Project Manager (PPK).

Of the project’s 20 civil works packages, 15 have been completed, and 3 will likely need
additional time to be fully completed. All the other (non-works) investments and
activities are expected to be completed by the current closing date, except for the Road
Safety Strategy technical assistance, which will be dropped in this restructuring because
it has already been completed with support from other donors.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

   Components

    One of the two main activities in the Road Safety subcomponent (Subcomponent a)
    of Component 3 (Road Sector Institutional Development) would be dropped from the
    project, and the proceeds would be used to strengthen and expand outputs from the
    remaining activity, which supports achievement of the same objective.

    Subcomponent (a) of Component 3 originally consisted of the following two
    activities:



                                           5
    i. Technical assistance to support development of an Integrated Road Safety
       Management System 1 (IRSMS-1), which consisted of preparation of a draft
       National Road Safety Strategy and Targets for 5 year period, its legislative
       initiative, and capacity building for Directorate of General of Land Transport
       (DGLT) in the Ministry of Transport (MOT), and

    ii. Technical assistance and goods procurement to support development of Integrated
        Road Safety management System 2 (IRSMS-2), which consisted of a system
        development of Traffic Accident Reporting System, Traffic Violation Recording
        System, Driver and Vehicle Identification and Registration System, and
        associated communication system to the existing sub-systems.

    While activity (ii) has been implemented as planned, a similar effort for (i) was
    supported by another bilateral donor during implementation of the project. Because
    of this, the Borrower had discussed the drop of this activity from the project among
    the concerned ministries (i.e. Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Transport,
    Bappenas, Ministry of Finance, and Indonesian National Police), and a formal request
    for drop of this activity was submitted to the Bank by the Borrower on January 31,
    2013.

    The proceeds intended for the strategy and planning activities are included in the
    same disbursement category; therefore formal reallocation of proceeds between
    categories is not required. Dropping this activity and shifting resources to other
    activities within the same subcomponent will not significantly affect achievement of
    the PDO, nor will it require revision of the indicators related to safety outcomes.

   Financing

    Cancellations: On April 8, 2013 the Bank received the Borrower’s formal request for
    cancellation of US$15 million of the IBRD loan. This is a result of exchange rate
    fluctuations subsequent to the restructuring of April 2011. The cancellation will
    reduce the cost of Component 1 (Improvements to Strategic National Roads) and will
    be reflected as a lower allocation of proceeds to Disbursement Category 1 (works) in
    the table in Schedule 2, Section IV.A.2 of the Loan Agreement.

   Closing date

    The proposed six-month closing date extension (to December 31, 2013) would enable
    the completion of three of the remaining civil works packages that are experiencing
    delays. The original closing date of December 31, 2011 was previously extended by
    18 months as part of the level-two project restructuring approved in April 2011. The
    cumulative extension would be 24 months. One of the principal reasons for the first
    extension was the 16 month lag from approval to effectiveness.

    Of the 20 civil works packages in the project (as restructured in April 2011), 15 have
    been completed. However, three of the remaining five packages that are still under
    implementation are not expected to be fully completed by the current closing date,
    due to bankruptcy of the contractor in charge. Completion of these civil works
    packages and their corresponding outputs is important to full achievement of the
                                            6
PDO. The formal request of the extension was submitted to the Bank by the Borrower
on April 8, 2013.




                                      7
