                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank Group


                                                        Report No: ICR00003134



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-48340 IBRD-77860)


                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 208.0 MILLION

                                        TO THE
                               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                         FOR A
                STRATEGIC ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                    December 30, 2014




Transport and ICT Global Practice
Indonesia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective November 2014)

                   Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                    ID Rupiah 1,000 = US$ 0.0823
                     US$ 1.00 = ID Rupiah 12,150

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 01 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT        Average Annual Daily Traffic
AMDAL       Analisa Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan (Environmental Impact Assessment)
APBN        Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara (Indonesia State Budget)
BAPEDALDA   Provincial Environmental Agency
BAPPEDA     Provincial Development Planning Board
BAPPENAS    National Development Planning Agency
CRO         Community Representative Observer
CSC         Construction Supervision Consultants
CTC         Core Team Consultants
DAK         Specific Purpose Grants
DGH         Directorate General of Highways
DIPA        Government of Indonesia Fiscal Year Budget Document
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRTP-1     Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
EIRTP-2     Second Eastern Indonesia Region Transport Project
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
ESAMP       Environment and Social Assessment Management Plan
FY          Fiscal Year
GOI         Government of Indonesia
IDR         Indonesian Rupiah
IG          Inspectorate General
IIRMS       Integrated Indonesian Road Management System
IRSMS       Integrated Road Safety Management Systems
LARAP       Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan
LARPF       Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MPW         Ministry of Public Works
NPV         Net Present Value
PAS         Procurement Advisory Services
PBC         Performance-Based Contract
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PMU         Project Management Unit
PPK         Sub-Project Manager
QALP-2      Second Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
SATKER      Project Manager
SRRP        Sumatera Region Road Projects
SURIP       Strategic Urban Road Infrastructure Project
WINRIP      Western Indonesia National Roads Improvement Project
Regional Vice President:   Axel van Trotsenburg
Country Director:          Rodrigo A. Chavez
Senior GP Director:        Pierre Guislain
Practice Manager:          Michel Kerf
Project Team Leader:       Mitsuyoshi Asada
ICR Team Leader:           Abigail C. Baca
                                            INDONESIA
                                Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project




                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet

A. Basic Information .......................................................................................................v
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................v
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................v
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .....................................................................x
H. Restructuring (if any) ..................................................................................................x
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ xii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................3
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..........................................................16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................17
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...........................................................................21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................52
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................53
Annex 10. Maps .............................................................................................................54
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Strategic Roads
Country:                Indonesia                Project Name:
                                                                           Infrastructure Project
                                                                           IBRD-48340,IBRD-
Project ID:             P079906                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           77860
ICR Date:               12/15/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           INDONESIA
Original Total
                        USD 208.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 174.13M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 181.4M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Directorate General of Highways, Ministry of Public Works
National Traffic Police Corps
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         07/23/2004    Effectiveness:             11/01/2007         11/01/2007
                                                               1st (Level-two)      05/16/2011
Appraisal:              05/03/2006    Restructuring(s):        2nd (Level-two)      05/21/2013
                                                               3rd (Level-two)      12/17/2013
Approval:               07/06/2006    Mid-term Review:           12/31/2008         12/03/2010
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2011         06/30/2014


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower       Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:    Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing   Moderately
                                                   Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       8                      8
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                               60                   60
Urban Transport                                                        32                   32


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                17                   17
Decentralization                                                       17                   17
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 33                   33
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                 16                   16
Trade facilitation and market access                                   17                   17


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Axel van Trotsenburg                 Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:           Rodrigo A. Chaves                    Andrew D. Steer
Practice Manager:           Michel Kerf                          Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:        Mitsuyoshi Asada                     Jerry A. Lebo
ICR Team Leader:            Abigail C. Baca
                            Abigail C. Baca
ICR Primary Author:
                            Dewi Wandansari
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to improve economic competitiveness by improving the
capacity and quality of strategic national roads on the Borrower's islands of Java and
Sumatra, improving road safety and increasing the efficiency, quality and transparency of
works procurement and implementation in Indonesia’s Ministry of Public Works.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of kilometers of new strategic national roads
Value
quantitative or   0                         54.07 km                           37.10 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011                         06/30/2014
Comments          69% achieved. Non-performance of the contractor caused early termination of
(incl. %          one contract. Completion of the remaining four work packages for new strategic
achievement)      national roads considered a significant outcome.
Indicator 2 :     Number of kilometers of strategic national road with increased capacity
Value
quantitative or   0                         83.94 km                           84.84 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011                         06/30/2014
Comments
                  101% achieved. The improvements done to the strategic national roads increased
(incl. %
                  capacity of strategic national road.
achievement)
                  Number of meters of bridge construction (plus percentage completion of civil
Indicator 3:
                  works)
Value
quantitative or   0                         50 m                               52 m
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011                         06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          104% achieved. The intended bridges were completed and functional.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Average increase of travel speed
Value
quantitative or   0                         35%                                32%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011                         06/30/2014
Comments
                  91% achieved. The actual value achieved came very close to the target in spite of
(incl. %
                  more-than-expected increase in average traffic volume.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Average increase of AADT on project roads
Value
quantitative or   0                         20%                                21.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                   06/30/2011                      06/30/2014
Comments          107% achieved. The indicator description was modified for better definition in
(incl. %          the 1st Restructuring (05/16/2011) from original PAD wording: "AADT on new
Achievement)      roads relative to forecast flow".
                  Number of kilometers of strategic national road betterment implemented (plus
Indicator 6 :
                  percentage completion of civil works) with goods and or fair condition
Value
quantitative or   0                         153 km             106 km          106 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011         05/16/2011      06/30/2014
Comments
                  The revised target was 100% achieved. The target value was revised in the 1st
(incl. %
                  Restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 7:      Percentage Disbursement of construction works achieved
Value
quantitative or   0                         100%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011                         06/30/2014
Comments
                  100% achieved. Total disbursement for construction works reached the
(incl. %
                  equivalent of US$158.6 million, which was 100% of the completed civil works.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Percentage of Construction contracts that comply with specification
Value
quantitative or   0                         100%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011                         06/30/2014
Comments
                  100% achieved. This indicator showed the improvement in the efficiency, quality
(incl. %
                  and transparency of civil works implementation in the MPW.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Performance based contracting pilot program implemented as designed
Value
quantitative or   0 km                      110.4 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                06/30/2011
Comments
                  This indicator was dropped in the 1st Restructuring (05/16/2011). The GOI
(incl. %
                  implemented the performance based contract pilot program using its own budget.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Number of intersections improved
Value
                  0                         106                                76
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved        06/30/2006                06/30/2011                          06/30/2014
Comments             72% achieved. Caused by dropping of several subprojects in the 1st
(incl. %             Restructuring (05/16/2011) without revision of the target, and omission of seven
achievement)         interchanges due to delays in relocation of utilities.
Indicator 11 :       Number of Technical Audits carried out
Value
quantitative or      0                                 22 packages              19 packages         8 packages
Qualitative)
Date achieved        06/30/2006                        06/30/2011               05/16/2011          06/30/2014
Comments
                     The revised target was 42% achieved. The Inspectorate General of MPW sent 8
(incl. %
                     technical audit reports to DGH by the close of the project.
achievement)
                     Anti-Corruption procedures and Construction Supervision carried out as the
Indicator 12 :
                     framework
Value
quantitative or      0                                 22 packages              19 packages         19 packages1
Qualitative)
Date achieved        06/30/2006                        06/30/2011               05/16/2011          06/30/2014
Comments
                     The revised target was 100% achieved. ACAP procedures were followed in all 19
(incl. %
                     civil works packages which ensured transparency of the procurement process.
achievement)
Indicator 13 :       Fully Operational Road Accident Recording System with Trained Staff
Value
quantitative or      0                                 100%                                         100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved        06/30/2006               06/30/2011                        06/30/2014
Comments             100% achieved. The development of IRSMS-2 was considerably extended in
(incl. %             scope, after IRSMS-1 was dropped from the project in the 2nd Restructuring
achievement)         (May 2013).
Indicator 14 :       Road Safety Audits conducted and recommendations addressed
Value
quantitative or      0                                 19 packages                                  19 packages
Qualitative)
Date achieved        05/16/2011                 06/30/2013                           06/30/2014
Comments             100% achieved. Road safety related problems were identified on all packages,
(incl. %             the safety audits were carried out and improvements made after construction had
achievement)         commenced. This indicator was added in the 1st Restructuring.
Indicator 15 :       Roads in good and fair condition as a share of total classified roads
Value
quantitative or      93.4%                             96.8%                                        95.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/31/2012                06/30/2013                         06/30/2014
Comments             73% achieved. Added in March 2012 as a mandatory Core Sector Indicator. The
(incl. %             actual (95.9%) was less than the end target (96.8%), as denominator figure for


1
  The final number of packages became 20 as Bandar Lampung Bypass was divided into two contracts (A and B) for procurement
reasons, but for the purpose of evaluating indicators this was kept as one package for simplicity.
achievement)      the total national roads in project provinces increased more than anticipated.
Indicator 16:     Size of the total classified network
Value
quantitative or   7168 km                     7603 km                           8786 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/31/2012                  06/30/2013                          06/30/2014
                  115% achieved. Added in March 2012 as a mandatory Core Sector Indicator. The
Comments
                  actual length of national road is more than the target due to the change of status
(incl. %
                  from Provincial or Kabupaten roads to national roads, and construction of new
achievement)
                  roads.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

The original results framework did not differentiate between outcome indicators and
intermediate indicators; therefore, all indicators are included in the previous section.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2006             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     11/01/2007             Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
                                                         Moderately
  3     06/09/2009       Moderately Satisfactory                                            27.42
                                                       Unsatisfactory
  4     12/18/2009       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 39.66
  5     05/29/2011       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 84.55
  6     03/31/2012       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                119.85
  7     12/13/2012       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                146.13
  8     08/03/2013       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                160.95
  9     03/05/2014       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                170.70



H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Closing date extended from
                                                     December 31, 2011 to June 30,
                                                     2013 due to delay in achieving
 05/16/2011               MS    MS           83.65   critical milestones. Key changes
                                                     made are: modifications of a
                                                     few performance indicators and
                                                     target values; reduction of
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     project scope to cope with the
                                                     fund shortage; and, associated
                                                     reallocation of loan proceeds.
                                                     Closing date extended from
                                                     June 30, 2013 to December 31,
                                                     2013 to allow completion of all
                                                     ongoing investment activities
                                                     and orderly closure of the loan.
                                                     Key changes made are: dropped
                                                     one activity related to
 05/21/2013               MS    MS          156.07   improvement of road safety and
                                                     institutional development, and
                                                     shifting the proceeds to another
                                                     activity within the same
                                                     subcomponent; and,
                                                     cancellation of US$ 15 million
                                                     of the loan as a result of
                                                     exchange rate fluctuations.
                                                     Closing date extended from
                                                     December 31, 2013 to June 30,
                                                     2014 to allow for:(i) payments
                                                     for the completed work
                                                     packages for which the
 12/17/2013               MS    MS          169.60   disbursement may not be made
                                                     by December 2013; (ii) the
                                                     completion of the work package
                                                     Bandar Lampung Bypass A; and
                                                     (iii) escalation payments that
                                                     need to be audited.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.      Following the 1997 financial crisis, lagging infrastructure investment in key
sectors was considered a serious threat to achieving the Government's growth targets. It
was well understood that between 1975 and 1997 high spending on infrastructure
contributed to Indonesia’s robust growth and decreasing poverty rates, which fell from 64
to 17 percent. In order to achieve similar improvements after the crisis, better road
networks, larger and more efficient harbors and airports, improved supply systems for
electricity and water, and more extensive flood mitigation measures were areas where
investment was needed in the near-term.
2.      Transport was of key importance to the performance of the Indonesian economy,
particularly the road sector, which accounted for the major share of domestic freight and
inter-urban passenger land travel. Enhanced international competitiveness, as well as the
availability and affordability of goods and services within the economy (especially access
to basic services in isolated areas), relied on efficient functioning of the transport sector.
3.      Transport demand in Indonesia had been growing faster than GDP for nearly a
decade and traffic levels were above pre-1997 levels. Congestion on the arterial road
network was a widespread problem, especially on Java. For the foreseeable future, traffic
growth could be expected to increase at 1-1.5 times GDP growth rates (roughly seven to
10 percent per annum). The national road network consisted of about 34,628 kilometers
of which about 27,000 kilometers were national arterial roads, about 649 kilometers were
toll roads, and about 8,000 kilometers were unclassified roads.
4.      The Bank had extensive experience in the road sector in Indonesia having
supported numerous projects and technical assistance programs over the last several
decades. The Project was a logical continuation to the Strategic Urban Roads
Infrastructure Project (Loan 4054-IND), which successfully reduced traffic bottlenecks in
selected areas in North Java, and the Second Highway Sector Investment Project (Loan
3712-IND), which addressed road maintenance and capacity expansion, as well as sector
reforms.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
5.     The objective of the Project was to improve economic competitiveness by (1)
improving the capacity and quality of strategic national roads on the Borrower's islands
of Java and Sumatra, (2) improving road safety and, (3) increasing the efficiency, quality
and transparency of works procurement and implementation in Indonesia’s Ministry of
Public Works.
6. The original key performance indicators for the above PDOs were:
   (a) Percentage reduction in travel times on Sub-Project roads;
   (b) Annual average daily traffic (AADT) on Sub-Project roads relative to forecast
       flows as reported in the Project Implementation Plan;
   (c) Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program implemented as designed;
   (d) Road safety studies and pilot program carried out as designed;
   (e) Anti-Corruption Action Plan implemented and construction supervision carried
       out as designed (percentage of new contracts fully compliant with no breaches);

                                            -1-
   (f) Number of technical audits carried out; and,
   (g) Number of kilometers of betterment, capacity expansion, and new roads
       constructed, and number of meters of bridges completed.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
       reasons/justification
7.     The PDO was not revised; however, some indicators were changed during the first
project restructuring in March 2011. Changes to the following indicators were
documented in the restructuring paper:
      (b) “AADT on new roads relative to forecast flows” changed to “Average increase
       of AADT on project roads.” This provided a more effective indicator definition
       related to measuring decreased congestion on project roads.
      (c) Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program implemented as designed. Related
       subcomponent dropped at the request of the client.
      New PI introduced: “Road safety audits conducted and recommendations
       addressed.” This provided improved monitoring of road safety on project roads.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
8.     The Project contributes to the Government's growth strategy by helping to
meet rapidly rising transport demand and alleviating congestion along key
transport corridors. Project beneficiaries are road users in the seven provinces included
in SRIP. There are approximately 141 million people in those provinces with an average
poverty rate of 13.6% (Statistik Indonesia 2010). It is estimated that 40 to 45 million
people are likely to benefit from the Project.
9.      The institutional beneficiaries are MPW and associated implementing agents at
the Province and Local levels including environmental agencies (Bapedaldas), and the
Indonesian National Traffic Police through the capacity building components of the
project.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
10. The project originally consisted of the following three components:
Component 1. Improvements to Strategic National Roads (US$ 262.1 million). This
component consists of:
(a) Betterment of approximately 155 kilometers of urban and inter-urban roads;
(b) Expansion of road capacity on approximately 85 kilometers of urban and inter-
    urban roads, including bridges;
(c) Construction of approximately 55 kilometers of new urban and inter-urban roads,
    including bridges;
(d) Construction of a new bridge of approximately 50 meters on an inter-urban road;
    and,
(e) Implementation of a Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program on an
    approximately 110 kilometer section of the North Java Corridor, involving
    betterment of approximately 10 kilometers and maintenance of approximately 110
    kilometers.

                                          -2-
Component 2. Implementation Support (US$ 20.1 million). This component consists
of:
(a) Support to the Directorate of Planning of MPW and the PMU in Project
    implementation, including environmental management, project performance
    monitoring, implementation of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, financial
    management and monitoring, evaluation and reporting;
(b) Assistance to MPW in the design of works, pre-contract activities, supervision of
    construction and implementation management for Sub-Projects;
(c) Assistance to MPW in preparation and implementation of the Performance-Based
    Contract Pilot Program;
(d) Assistance to MPW in the procurement of consultancy services and works, including
    in implementation of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan; and,
(e) Assistance to MPW in carrying out financial and technical audits on Project works.

Component 3. Road Sector Institutional Development (US$ 4.1 million). This
component consists of two aspects of the required support to the road sector in Indonesia:
(a) Supporting Indonesia's overall road safety strategy (US$ 3.5 million) by developing:
    (i) an integrated road safety strategy and long-term plan, including an institutional
    framework; and (ii) a pilot integrated road accident database/analysis system, and
    establishing self-sustaining personnel development procedures for traffic police; and,
(b) Training of Project staff (US$0.6 million) in the application of the Project
    Management Manual, including procedures for procurement, financial management,
    and reporting, and in the application of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan and the
    Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan.
1.6 Revised Components
11.   The original components were revised. The Performance-Based Contract (PBC)
Pilot Program implementation in Component 1 and the corresponding PBC
implementation support activity in Component 2 were dropped in the first restructuring in
May 2011, and one of the two road safety activities (IRSMS-1) in Component 3 was
dropped in the second restructuring in May 2013.
1.7 Other significant changes
12.     The project was restructured three times. Under the three-time restructurings,
the loan closing date was extended by 30 months from December 31, 2011 to June 30,
2014. The first restructuring decreased the scope of civil works with three of the twenty-
two work packages dropped. This was primarily due to fluctuations of the Rupiah and
increased construction costs, which caused insufficient resources at that point in the
project. The construction prices later stabilized resulting in cancelations that reduced the
loan amount from US$ 208,000,000 to US$ 181,455,176. Further details are provided
under point 2.2 below
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
13.   The Bank’s longstanding engagement in the Indonesia road sector helped
ensure that the background analysis and rationale for Bank involvement were

                                           -3-
strong. The PAD presented a comprehensive view of key road sector institutional issues
including: road financing resources, decentralization of MPW functions, capacity
building for sector management, corruption and quality of construction, truck
overloading, and road safety. Sufficient rationale was provided to justify the focus of
SRIP on a subset of these issues, considering that areas such as truck overloading were
likely to be addressed in other projects.
14.     The project aimed to tackle the key road sector institutional issues and
priority investments in strategic road corridors. This was consistent with the Country
Partnership Strategy and supported the government’s development priorities and sectoral
strategy. The design of the project combined standard road infrastructure investments
and institutional strengthening with unprecedented focus on anti-corruption and
transparency as an explicit part of the PDOs.
15.     Corruption was a critical issue in the Bank’s dialog with the Government.
There had been serious INT investigations in the sector that prompted an unprecedented
focus on transparency and anti-corruption at the time of this project design. Hence, the
rationale behind the emphasis put by the project on the transparency of procurements as
part of the PDO, design and implementation arrangements. Based on lessons learned,
SRIP included activities and components to address risk of corruption and collusion
through a comprehensive Anti-Corruption Action Plan and to enhance quality of civil
works with the provision of dedicated implementation support through professional
review of engineering designs.
16.     A critical flaw in the project design was that the overarching PDO “to
improve economic competitiveness” was never intended to be a measureable or
attributable outcome for the project itself. This interpretation was strongly supported
by the PAD, especially Section 3, which frames economic competiveness as a higher
level rather than project level objective. Additionally, the results framework did not
include related indicators or specific approaches to measuring improvement in economic
competitiveness. This higher level objective was neither measurable nor attributable to
the project; therefore, achievement of the PDO was measured by the consolidated
achievements of the three specific objectives.
17.     The components’ designs and performance indicators had significant
shortcomings. Components related to road safety, where the project activities were fairly
limited, did not fully support achievement of the development objectives. In terms of the
structure of the components and the key performance indicators, the design did not fully
reflect the development objectives, particularly for road safety, and led to challenges in
monitoring and evaluation.
18.     There were notable delays from board approval to signing and effectiveness.
The project was approved by the Board on July 6, 2006, but the Loan Agreement was
only signed on September 13, 2007 and reached effectiveness on November 1, 2007. The
GOI preferred to delay signing until the main implementation support consultants were
hired (i.e., Bank’s no objection for the contracts was issued), one reason being to avoid
commitment fees by ensuring that disbursement would start soon after the signing and
effectiveness. Procurement for supporting consultants, namely the Core Team
Consultants, Construction Supervision Consultants and Procurement Advisors had not

                                          -4-
been completed at the time of loan signing. The delays in hiring these supporting
consultants became the main cause of both civil works and technical assistance
component delays and ultimately led to the multiple extensions of the closing date.
19.     Most risks were reasonably identified in the PAD based on the experience of
implementing previous projects (SURIP, SRRP, EIRTP-1, and EIRTP-2). In the
Critical Risk analysis, the PAD considered three factors (land acquisition and
resettlement, delay in procurement, and deterioration of traffic safety conditions) as high
risk and one factor (corruption) as substantial risk. Notable elements, positive and
negative, in the risk mitigation approach include:
       a. Strong emphasis was placed on addressing corruption – inclusive of
          construction quality and procurement related risks – through the design of
          mitigation measures focused on the development of an extensive ACAP and
          provision of targeted implementation support to MPW in the procurement of
          consultancy services and works, including the implementation of the ACAP.
       b. Handling of road safety issues was not supported by the project design until
          new measures, including expanded safety audits and training workshops, were
          introduced through a level two restructuring.
       c. Effective coordination among project agencies was underestimated as a
          moderate risk. Difficulty in multi-agency implementation was a known
          challenge, which could have been better mitigated in the project design.
2.2 Implementation
20.     Implementation progress was a significant issue at the beginning of the
project, then improved and stabilized after the resolution of specific challenges. The
key implementation issue was the delay in selection of consultant services directly
required for implementation of the project. This is known to be a chronic issue for
projects in Indonesia and was the focus of various mitigation efforts on the part of the
Bank, which proved to be only partially effective.
21.     By December 2010, implementation progress was significantly lagging.
Thirty-seven months had lapsed since effectiveness (76% of project time period), against
which the physical progress was 37.2% and the disbursement was 33.7% (as of 31
October 2010). The slow progress in civil works and other components was mainly due
to delays in: engagement of Procurement Advisory Services (PAS) Consultant (August
2009); finalization of the Standard Bidding Document (SBD) (July 2009); full
mobilization of major consulting services to support the project implementation, which
are the Core Team Consultants (CTC) to assist DGH in overall project management, and
the two Construction Supervision Consultants (CSC-1 and CSC-2) for supervision of the
road works (July 2009).
22.     The impact of delays was compounded by sharp construction cost increases
driven by exchange rate fluctuations. The Construction Price Index almost doubled
between January 2005 and December 2010, with particularly sharp increases through
2008. This and the exchange rate fluctuations (appreciation of Indonesian Rupiah)
necessitated a significant reduction in the civil works programs to be financed by the
project. Analysis at midterm suggested that the civil works (Component 1) budget of the


                                           -5-
project would be fully exhausted by accommodating Group 1, 2 and 3 contracts, leaving
Group 4 and 5 without funds.
23.     The Borrower and the Bank agreed to take significant actions at the mid-
term stage. Internal Guidance of the Bank from the Second Quality Assessment of
Lending Portfolio (QALP-2) conducted in March 2010 concluded that the quality of
supervision was moderately satisfactory, but focused on addressing shortcomings in the
project design and implementation that posed the highest risk to achieving the PDOs.
Major recommendations included:
  a. Enhancing supervisions and implementation support to improve road safety and
     increase the efficiency, quality and transparency of works procurement and
     implementation in the Ministry of Public Works;
  b. Modifying the indicators in the PAD to make them more meaningful and relevant
     to the PDOs and more appropriate to measure outcome achievement; and,
  c. Updating the cost estimates and introducing measures to ensure adequate funding
     such as reducing the scope of the project or providing additional financing.

24.    First Restructuring Following up on the recommendations of the QALP-2 and
requests from the Borrower in their Midterm Review Report, a level-two restructuring in
May 2011 introduced the following modifications:
    a. Closing date was extended to June 30, 2013;
    b. Dropping Civil Works Groups 4 and 5, including the PBC pilot program;
    c. Modification of performance indicators definitions and target values; and
    d. Reallocation of loan proceeds.

25.     By February 2013 implementation progress had greatly improved. The
Project had been implemented for 63 months since effectiveness (88% of project time
period), against which the physical progress was 83.9% (as of 31 January 2013), and the
disbursement was 73.9% (as of 11 February 2013). However, the Bank assessed that four
of the remaining civil works packages would not be completed by the closing date.
26.     Second Restructuring A minor level-two restructuring in May 2013 introduced
the following modifications:
   a. Closing date was extended to December 31, 2013;
   b. TA related to Institutional Development for Road Safety IRSMS-1 was dropped;
   c. US$ 15 million of the loan was cancelled as a result of exchange rate fluctuations
      (Indonesian Rupiah recovered in value since the first restructuring).

27.    Third Restructuring (Final Closing Date Extension and Cancellation)
Another minor level-two restructuring in December 2013 extended the closing date to
June 30, 2014 which was necessary to allow the following actions: payments to be made
for completed work packages for which disbursement might not have been made by
December 2013; completion of the remaining work package Bandar Lampung Bypass A;
and, auditing of escalation payments. Final reallocations were also conducted on
December 26, 2013.



                                         -6-
28.      Finally, there were three INT investigations related to this project. One case
early during implementation found 3 firms and 3 joint venture (JVs) used false bid
securities to support their bids. They were subsequently sanctioned. Another more recent
investigation resulted in the temporary suspension of a bidder who had engaged in
several sanctionable offences. Finally, the third case was INT’s due diligence on a
consultant performing services in SRIP who was the subject of other investigations. In
the latter cases, there were challenges related to the complexity of the cases that required
confidentiality in handling the information and this may have led to strained relations
with the implementing agency.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.     M&E Design. The PAD included seven key indicators that corresponded to an
expanded set of thirteen indicators in the results framework, which were used throughout
implementation. However, these indicators had several shortcomings, which limited
efficacy in monitoring progress towards the PDOs:
    a. The majority of indicators focused on project outputs rather than outcome
       particularly in regard to assessing improvements to quality and capacity of
       strategic roads;
    b. The indicators did not provide adequate coverage for all PDOs. In particular,
       there was no indicator related to road safety improvements on project roads;
    c. The target values were mislabeled as baseline values; and
    d. Data sources and frequency of collection for indicators were not clearly defined.

30.     At the midterm review stage and through a restructuring, the Bank and Borrower
agreed to modify several Performance Indicators to improve the measurement of the
achievement of PDOs. Changes to the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and their
targets are described in the project datasheet.
31.    M&E Implementation. Data collection for most indicators was the responsibility
of the PMU, with support from the CTC. There was good and consistent collection of
data on the straightforward, output-based indicators used to monitor the progress of civil
works. The AADT and increase in travel time savings data required large scale survey
and modeling efforts, and could be collected only at the completion of the packages.
Hence, these indicator values only became available at the end of the project.
32.     M&E Utilization. The civil works output indicators used for monitoring were
extracted from more detailed project management tools used by the PMU. Because some
indicators were designed to be measured only at the end of the project, opportunities to
utilize the results framework as part of operational M&E for project management
purposes during implementation were limited.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

33.     The safeguards and fiduciary compliance was satisfactory. The project was
classified as category A (Full Assessment) for safeguards. The specific policies triggered
were Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP
4.12). An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESAMF) and a Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF) were agreed upon for the
                                           -7-
project. There were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank’s safeguards
policies and procedures.
Environmental
34.     All SRIP subprojects were in full compliance with all environmental
assessment requirements. The Project had the potential for significant adverse
environmental impacts as the main type of civil works were construction of new roads,
and betterment and capacity expansion of existing national roads. To ensure these
significant potential impacts were identified, clearly understood, and effectively avoided,
minimized, and/or acceptably managed, the Government adopted a comprehensive
environmental management process. The overall Environmental and Social Assessment
Management Plan (ESAMP) served as the Project's umbrella Environmental and Social
Assessment, setting out a strategic screening process that ensured all Project-associated
adverse impacts were identified, and effectively mitigated. A two-stage environmental
screening process was followed:
  (a)    Initial screening to determine whether any environmental examination was
         required; and,
  (b)    Second stage screening to determine the extent of further environmental
         examination. These procedures were prescribed in the bid documents for all
         subprojects.
Social
35.     The ESAMP served as the Project's umbrella social management document,
setting out the strategic screening process that ensured that all the Project's social issues
were captured. For individual subprojects, GOI prepared four instruments:
  (a)    Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF), to give overall
         Project guidance for the preparation of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
         Action Plans (LARAPs);
  (b)    LARAPs, which for specific subprojects set out the processes for and agreements
         on the compensation and resettlement assistance to be given to project affected
         people and communities affected by land acquisition;
  (c)    Abbreviated LARAPs - for subprojects when fewer than 200 persons are
         affected; and
  (d)    TRACER studies- as a due diligence investigative report to ensure that in cases
         where land acquisition and resettlement activities were conducted by local
         governments before SRIP was prepared, the Bank was fully informed of how that
         process was undertaken, and that post-corrective actions, if any, were taken
         satisfactorily to the Bank.
36.     All land acquisitions which took place in SRIP’s subprojects were carried out
in a satisfactory manner. LARAPs were prepared for subprojects involving land
acquisition that was identified prior to construction work. Land was acquired through
negotiations and by cash compensation. All cash compensation was paid at or above
market price by using local bank land market price information as a basis for
compensation negotiation. For land acquisition activities conducted before the
subprojects were identified for Bank financing and without approved LARAPs, tracer

                                            -8-
studies were prepared, including remedial action plans if the findings of the tracer studies
were not in line with the LARPF of SRIP. Out of a total of 19 subprojects (with one
subproject split into two for the purpose of the LARAP activities), 5 subprojects prepared
tracer studies and 15 subprojects prepared LARAP documents. All LARAPs were
documented and disclosed on the Project’s and Bank websites.
37.     Mitigation of HIV/AIDS transmission risks was included in project design.
The Project involved a number of construction workers coming to live in base camps
along the project corridors; these workers could have potentially spread HIV/AIDS. To
mitigate the risks of HIVIAIDS transmission, the construction contracts included clauses
requiring contractors to allow their workers to attend education sessions where materials
such as awareness brochures and condoms were distributed. Coordination between MPW
with the Ministry of Health was done on this aspect.
Financial Management
38.     The Financial Management is rated Satisfactory with related aspects of the
project generally in compliance with Bank standards. During implementation, several
overpayments and insufficient monitoring on construction works and consultancy
services were noted. These findings were followed up and actions were taken properly by
the implementing agencies. Improvements were done on the internal control system
particularly in the areas of payment verification and project management. Audit reports
and Interim Financial Reports (IFR) were submitted on time and with sufficient
documentation; all audit reports were supported by unqualified options. Sufficient
amounts of budget were always allocated to cover project expenditures. The final audit
report for the 6 months prior to June 30, 2014 is expected to be received by the Bank on
December 30, 2014.
Procurement
39.     The selection of consultant and procurement of works and goods carried out
by the Implementing Agencies following the Bank’s Procurement and Consultant
Selection Guidelines was Moderately Satisfactory. At the beginning of the project, the
procurement was rated as moderately unsatisfactory due to serious delays in selection of
key consulting services contracts. However, after three main consulting services (PAS,
CTC, CSCs) were awarded and mobilized, and improvement to the procurement process
of civil works contracts was realized, procurement was rated moderately satisfactory
through the end of project.
40.     Procurement of civil works experienced moderate challenges and delays.
Positive factors included the advanced procurement actions taken as part of project
preparations to fast-track the implementation of the Group 1 work packages.
Additionally, procurement training was delivered at the beginning of the project to all
PIUs and procurement committees. However, procurement committees still encountered
difficulties stemming from different interpretations of bidding rules. For example, the
PMU’s interpretation restricted any additional data or information from being provided
during the evaluation process; whereas the Bank’s guidelines accept the provision of
additional data or information for the purpose of evaluation, as long as it does not change
the substance or price of the bid. The PMU eventually accepted the Bank’s definition;
however, this contributed to delays in implementation of the remaining work packages.

                                           -9-
Anti-Corruption Action Plan
41.     Effort in implementation of ACAP was generally satisfactory. Review and
progress of ACAP implementation was regularly reported and updated in the PMU
progress reports. SRIP established the information disclosure and complaints handling
mechanism by using a combination of MPW systems and a separate project portal. All
complaints received by the project were resolved. Content of public information
disclosure was kept in a separate project portal (not within the MPW systems), and it
risks being inaccessible after project completion.
42.     Use of external observers was partially successful. Community Representative
Observers proved effective at ensuring transparency of bid openings through their
attendance at all Group 2 and Group 3 bidding. Third Party Monitoring (TPM) was not
fully successful, given that the monitors were appointed in only 7 out of 20 project
locations. The main challenge was finding effective TPMs among local NGOs, who
typically lack experience and/or technical competencies and are reluctant to work on a
volunteer, unpaid, basis. In general, TPMs from universities delivered better services, but
also often lacked interest and technical expertise to conduct monitoring.
43.    External Supervision Team (EST) had limited impact. The Bank’s Anti-
Corruption team was supported by the EST, which was an independent consultancy with
terms-of-references to identify indicators of corruption, and track implementation of the
Anti-Corruption Action Plan. The assignment was performed through a series of
discussions with project teams (Bank and GOI), civil societies and project visits (sample
of 10 work packages), to evaluate components of public disclosure, external monitoring,
and complaints handling. The Bank’s Anti-Corruption team found no significant benefit
from this EST exercise, considering the consultants’ contract ended in 2009, allowing
them to monitor only Group 1 activities.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
44.     Road assets financed under SRIP are expected to receive annual routine
maintenance and periodic maintenance after five years through the national budget in
accordance with DGH’s standard procedures in road maintenance. Other aspects related
to sustainability of the project activities are discussed in greater details in Section 4.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
45.     The PDO is relevant to the mission of Indonesia’s Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) to provide functional management support and accountable, competent, and
integrated resources by applying the principles of good governance. In more specific
terms, SRIP supported DGH’s mission to realize a sustainable national road network with
sufficient mobility, accessibility and safety, to serve national activity centers, regional and
national strategic zone.
46.     The PDO is relevant to the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) FY
2013-2015, especially to two of the Bank’s core objectives which are the Pro Growth
objective, specifically in terms of strengthening the national road network, and the Cross-
Cutting Engagements objective, especially in terms of governance and anti-corruption.


                                            - 10 -
47.      The project’s design and implementation was adapted during restructuring
to maintain relevance in response to changing needs. The Bank improved aspects of
the project design including the realignment of subcomponents and performance
indicators related to project road safety activities that were highly relevant to the
priorities of the Government. The implementation support component and institutional
arrangements for Procurement Agent and Procurement Advisory Services proved to be
less relevant.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
48.     The Project Development Objectives were nearly achieved. The overarching
objective to improve the economic competitiveness is broadly worded and precludes
meaningful evaluation against the project’s indicators and their achievements. Given
how the project was structured, achievement of this overarching objective is measured by
the consolidated achievements of the three specific objectives. Detailed assessments
against the specific objectives are provided as follows, based on which the overall
achievement of the PDO is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
(1)Improving capacity and quality of strategic national roads on the Borrower's islands
of Java and Sumatra – Moderately Satisfactory
49.     With respect to outputs indicators associated with civil works, the project
achievements are Satisfactory against formally revised targets. For the revised target
of improving about 245.8 km of strategic road new construction, rehabilitation, and
betterment, the actual output was 228 km (93%), and out of the original target of 50 m of
bridges, the actual output was 52m (104%). This has resulted in the substantial
achievement of the revised targets, and the intended capacity improvements of the
selected strategic national roads under the project. The only shortcoming against the
revised target was the termination of one subproject (Brebes - Tegal Bypass) due to non-
performance of the subcontractor.

                                   Original   Revised   Actual    % of     % of
                 Description       Length     Length    Length    Orig.    Rev.
                                    Km.        Km        Km.     Length   Length
              New Road              54.07      54.07     37.10     68.6   68.6
              Capacity Expansion    92.39      85.39     84.84     91.8   99.4
              Betterment           144.60     106.35    106.47     73.6   100.1
              Bridges               0.05        0.05     0.052    106.0   106.0
              PBC                  110.40        0         0        0       -
              Totals               401.51     245.86    228.46     56.9   92.9


50.    Indicators for key outcomes associated with capacity and quality of roads
were substantially achieved. Average increase of travel speed, which indicates the
reduction in travel times, was 32% against the target of 35%; and Average increase of
AADT on project roads was 21.5% against the target 20%.
51.    Improvement to the quality of roads under the project’s scope was
moderately satisfactory. The project design included sector capacity development by
including the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC) construction
management scheme with a three-party structure of the “Employer”, the “Engineer” and

                                              - 11 -
the “Contractor.” This involved the Core Team Consultant (CTC), through their support
to the PMU, as the “Employer” or project owner, and two Construction Supervision
Consultants (CSC-1 and 2), in which the team leader was designated as the “Engineer.”
The role of “Engineer” was not fully effective at providing independent quality control
because project directors and managers (called “Satker/PPK” in the regional offices of
DGH) tended to retain a higher level of authority over contractors in the field. However,
the CTC’s function was successful at coordinating among the three parties and helped
resolve many of the contract and quality issues during implementation including efforts
to strengthen the “Engineer” function of the supervision consultant.
52.    Dropping of the PBC pilot had limited impact on the overall achievement of this
DO. A factor that mitigates the negative impact is the inclusion of a major PBC
component in a project funded by the Australian Government, which ensures that DGH
would still be supported to make use of PBC approaches.
(2) Improving road safety– Moderately Satisfactory
53.     Shortcomings in the project design were corrected to achieve moderately
satisfactory impact on road safety. The outcome indicators related to road safety
mostly achieved their targets. The number of intersections improved reached 72% of the
target; however, the target should have been lowered when the overall project scope was
reduced in the first restructuring as the dropped work packages included some of the
intended intersections. The fully operational road accident recording system with trained
staff was 100% achieved through the successful development and implementation of
IRSMS-2 under the National Traffic Police Corps. Most significantly, road safety audits
(RSA) were conducted and recommendations addressed for all 19 work packages.
54.     Improved safety on project roads was satisfactory. RSA were originally
intended to be conducted only for Group 1 packages with high road safety concerns.
However, following the Midterm Review, it was decided RSAs should be conducted for
all 19 civil works packages to enhance the road safety improvements for the overall
project. DGH disseminated the RSA reports to the Regions (Wilayah), and immediate
improvements were implemented at site through CSC’s instructions and monitoring.
Several outreach and training seminars were held throughout the project which
introduced and emphasized the importance of heightened attention to road safety. Lessons
on road safety enhancements from SRIP were integrated in the WINRIP design, enabling
a larger impact on institutional and sectoral capacity.
(3) Increasing the efficiency, quality and transparency of works procurement and
implementation in Indonesia’s Ministry of Public Works– Moderately Satisfactory
55.    The efficiency of procurement and implementation aspect of the DO was
Moderately Unsatisfactory. This has to do with shortcomings related to the
implementation support component and institutional arrangements for Procurement Agent
and Procurement Advisory Services. These measures of implementation support on
procurement were intended to strengthen the transparency and anti-corruptions outcomes;
however, there were negative trade-offs in terms of the added complexity of the
procurement process, and the delays in hiring of PAS led to the substantial delays in
Group 2 and Group 3 civil works implementation. PA and PAS were not included in the


                                         - 12 -
Western Indonesia National Road Improvement Project (WINRIP) design, indicating that
they were not deemed as sufficiently effective.
56.     The quality of procurement and implementation aspect of the DO was
Moderately Unsatisfactory. Two outcome indicators related with procurements met the
targets: the percentage disbursement of construction works (100%), the percentage of
contracts that comply with specification (100%). However, the number of technical
audits carried out, achieved only 8 against the target 19 packages. Technical audits are
routinely conducted by the Inspectorate General (IG) of the MPW as per their legal
obligation, thus the target should have been easily met. However, the IG audits are
scheduled independently without a formal link to the project’s implementation timeline.
At project closing, only 8 audit reports were received by DGH. There is definitely room
for improvement to ensure effective coordination and communication between DGH and
IG in the conduct of technical audits.
57.      Anti-corruption and transparency aspects of the DO were Satisfactory. This
is the result of a satisfactory compliance with the overall ACAP. The ACAP was not fully
operational during the initial years of project implementation at the time of the first INT
case, however there was satisfactory compliance overall with the ACAP, once all its
features were operational. The investigations by INT are discussed in Sections 2.2 and
5.1. The semi e-procurement system introduced through SRIP has led MPW to the pilot
application of a full e-procurement system under NCB packages in the follow-on Bank
financed project, WINRIP, and its application to ICB packages is also under discussion
between the Borrower and the Bank. DGH implemented the system of project monitoring
(SistemPemantauanProyek – SiPP) on their website to monitor the financial and physical
progress of each project in DGH. The SiPP system allows the DGH’s project managers to
input project data from the field. The likelihood of corruption in civil works can be
reduced if this strong commitment is maintained and expanded. The related indicators
for anti-corruption procedures and construction supervision achieved 100% of their
intended target (19 packages) and there were no reported instances of collusion.
3.3 Efficiency
58.     The post-construction economic analysis shows that the project’s efficiency
was maintained despite implementation delays and increased construction costs.
Changes in scope and budget can be summarized in the table below with the unit cost
comparisons by civil works class. This simple comparison shows that on a relative basis
the actual costs of the civil works were higher than anticipated, although only by 12.7%
in total. The increased costs can partially be explained due to Construction Price Index
almost doubling between January 2005 and December 2010, with particularly sharp
increases through 2008.




                                          - 13 -
                   Cost US$ millions                      Length km
                                                                                 % Increase in
                  PAD             ACTUAL             PAD          ACTUAL           Unit cost
New Road          62.6             42.6             54.07          37.10             -0.8%
Capex             91.2             94.7             92.39          84.84            13.0%
Betterment        73.1             63.2            144.55         106.42            17.4%
Bridge            0.53             0.72             0.05           0.05             34.4%
PBC               21.0                             110.40
Total            248.6            201.3            401.46          228.41           42.3%
Total without
                 227.6            201.3            291.06          228.41           12.7%
PBC


59.      HDM-4 (version 2.08) was used to calculate the Economic Internal Rate of
Return (EIRR). The benefits and costs are defined by comparing the project case with a
“do-minimum” case. The post-construction economic evaluations took into account
quantifiable costs of road construction and maintenance; the main quantifiable benefits
are reduced vehicle operation costs (VOC), travel time savings for road users and
reductions in accidents. The EIRR was calculated for: (i) each subproject; (ii) for the
three groups (Group 1, 2, and 3) of packages, since Group 4 and 5 were dropped; and,
(iii) for the project as a whole.
60.     The overall EIRR for the post-construction economic evaluation is 89% with
an estimated Net Present Value (NPV) of IDR 6,565 billion (approximately USD 730
million at the initial exchange rate of 1 USD = 9000 IDR). This compares with an
average EIRR of 41% in the PAD. Both the PAD and the post-construction analysis used
a 15% discount rate. There were several changes in the extent of the works, in particular
as a result of reducing the length of works, but also in the type of works carried out and
therefore the direct comparison of the economic evaluation of individual project packages
with the original analysis is of limited value.
Comparison of the EIRR Results at PAD and at Post-Construction Evaluation
                                                             Work Type
  Economic Internal Rate of                                   Capacity
                                      Betterment                                   New Roads
       Return (EIRR)                                         Expansion
                                              Post-                  Post-                Post-
                                   PAD     Construction
                                                            PAD   Construction
                                                                                 PAD   Construction
       Work Program                60%        49%           73%       175%       19%      44%
                      Post-
           PAD     Construction
Group 1    46%       95%        59%       27%       56%               185%       21%      44%
Group 2    40%       66%        95%       54%       62%               107%       10%      44%
Group 3    85%      142%       149%      209%      104%                92%        -         -
All Sub-
           41%      89%*
Projects
   *Excludes Brebes-Tegal package which was not completed.




                                              - 14 -
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61.     The PDO remained highly relevant to GOI priorities and consistent with the CPS
through the period of implementation. The achievement of the outcome was moderately
satisfactory – as opposed to fully satisfactory - as a result of the partial achievement of
specific PDOs. As per the economic analysis, the project remained efficient despite
implementation delays, increased construction costs, and currency fluctuations.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
62.     The Project is expected to lead to positive social development outcomes .
Positive impacts include improved access for road users and generally a more efficient
market for labor, economic goods, services, and other facilities as a result of new/and or
improved access, which also stimulates economic growth in Java and Sumatra. In
addition, property prices for land adjacent to the completed subprojects increased,
benefiting those along the roads, including those affected by minor land acquisition not
causing displacement. The project did not have any poverty-specific emphasis or any
gender aspect to it. However, a simple analysis of poverty rates by provinces shows that
four provinces where 68% of the civil works investments took place have poverty rates
higher than the national average of 13.3%.

                                                         % Actual Project
 SRIP Provinces        Total             % Poor
                                                             Funds

 Banten                10,632,166                 7.1%                3.0%
 Central Java          32,382,657             16.6%                  36.0%
 East Java             37,476,757             14.8%                  15.9%
 Jambi                  3,092,265                 7.8%                4.1%
 Lampung                7,608,405             19.5%                  11.7%
 South Sumatra          7,450,394             15.1%                   4.6%
 West Java             43,053,732             11.1%                  24.8%
 Total             141,696,376.00             13.6%
Source: Statistik Indonesia Poverty Statistics 2010
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
63.     The Project contributed to institutional strengthening through the Road
Sector Institutional Development component. Activities focused on capacity building
through training of project stakeholders in procedures for procurement, financial
management, and reporting; and in the application of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan
and the Environmental and Social Assessment Management Plan. SRIP included training
to pertinent provincial and district (Kabupaten) environmental agencies (Bapedaldas) to
improve their capacity and help them assume a larger role in monitoring safeguards and
in planning and monitoring road programs more generally. Under the Road Safety

                                            - 15 -
component, capacity building included the development of manuals and training courses
for the collections and analysis of accident data; and the development of Standard
Operating Procedures to improve road safety enforcement. While trainings had the
immediate purpose of supporting project-based procedures, they were also designed to
impart best practices in the topics for longer term impact in the sector.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Not Applicable)
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
64.     According to a 2012 Bank Public Expenditure Review, risks associated with
maintenance of civil works investments come from inefficient use of funds. The study
shows that DGH has sufficient funds for maintenance; however, there is a high unit cost
of road maintenance, due to fragmentation of maintenance contracts and reliance on force
account. In the National Medium-Term Development Plan (RPJMN) for 2015-2020, the
government is setting the target in the road sector to achieve 100% of roads in good
condition by 2019, compared to 94% in 2014. The efficiency challenges together with a
slight decline in the DGH’s overall budget increases the risk that maintenance targets
cannot be reached and sustained.
65.     MPW still faces challenges to improving procurement efficiency. A 2013
Bank study on bottlenecks in procurement of infrastructure evaluated 45 procurement
processes from four different sources of financing for work contracts of comparable size
and nature, including a sample from SRIP. The assessment showed that Bank
procurement moves 33% faster than similar Government funded contracts (from
advertisement to bidding). Further mainstreaming of more efficient procurement
practices are needed to achieve broader progress in that area. However, the fact that
DGH is establishing a Procurement Facilitation Unit/Team to improve current
procurement inefficiencies is a very positive step. These actions are also a trigger in the
parallel Infrastructure DPL operation.
66.     The National Traffic Police have included aspects of IRSMS-2 in the National
General Plan for Traffic and Road Transportation Safety. The Accident Information
System (AIS) developed under the IRSMS-2 is being introduced as the basis of a
nationwide road accident prevention system, and is expected to be the standard system
used by the Traffic Police. However, only two provinces are currently fully equipped
with the required digital recording devices. A plan to provide the remaining provinces
with the devices is being discussed with budget allocation to the Indonesia National
Traffic Police Corps.




                                            - 16 -
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
67.      The Bank designed the project with relevant and timely objectives; however,
the design did not fully capture appropriate lessons from past projects. The Bank
assigned a qualified team with an appropriate skills mix, including extra supervision
resources to support complex, new ACAP activities. Although the Bank devoted
considerable time and efforts in assisting the Government through the complex
preparation process, the project still experienced substantial delays in the early stages due
to procurement related issues. Other negative factors affecting quality at entry include
the weak design of the results framework and misalignment between the road safety
activities which the project supported and the road safety subsidiary PDO. Additionally,
while there were several aggravating factors, the delays related to the PAS and the
eventual termination of the PBC and IRSMS-1 activities can be attributed to lack of
adequate interest and commitment from the Borrower. This has negative implications for
both the Bank and Government at entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

68.     The Bank maintained a strong and consistent engagement across four TTL
transitions. The supervision was supported by well-balanced team, with an appropriate
skills mix and experience throughout implementation. At the beginning of the project,
the Task Team Leader was stationed at the Country Office and carried out supervision on
an ongoing basis without formally designated missions; thus no ISRs were filed for more
than a year. Nonetheless, project documents show that during this period the task team
undertook intensive supervision activities. In the absence of the Procurement Adviser, the
team supported the DGH in the development of the first six packages and provided
training to the procurement committees prior to the evaluation process.
69.     The response of the task team to the project’s lagging performance at
midterm was satisfactory. Significant improvements were introduced to the project in
accordance with advice from the QALP-2 and at the request of the Government.
Although the restructuring improved the design, there was a missed opportunity to clarify
the PDO statement by removing improvement to economic competitiveness as the
primary objective on the grounds that it was neither measurable nor attributable to the
project.
70.     The task team strongly supported the Borrower in the successful
achievement of the anti-corruption and transparency aspects of the PDO. Regarding
the INT investigations related to the project, it is nearly impossible to assess if the task
team could have done more to avoid or mitigate the facts underlying the investigation. It
is however clear that once the investigations started, the task team facilitated the
collection of information and supported the investigators as much as possible.

                                            - 17 -
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71.     The Bank’s task team was successful in maintaining effective management of
the project and in overcoming many of the initial design challenges. Nevertheless,
quality at entry issues were significant and higher attention was needed to address the
PDO outcomes and sustainability issues. Overall, with an MU rating for Bank
Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry and an MS rating for Quality of Supervision,
an overall rating of MS is justified on balance in this case.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
72.     Members of the project steering committee participated actively during
design and implementation. BAPPENAS led Bank mission discussions to coordinate
actions to be taken by each ministry and agencies. The Ministry of Finance took the lead
effectively on disbursement, loan and legal agreement issues, with the majority of
counterpart funding adequately allocated throughout the project. Although the overall
function of each agency was clear, the decision making process sometimes took quite
long to coordinate among the different parties.
73.    The Government showed moderate ownership of some project components.
As mentioned in the evaluation of Bank performance at entry, there appeared to be a lack
of commitment from the Borrower on specific project components including the
provision of the PAS, a Road Safety sub-component (IRSMS-1), and the PBC pilot.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
74.     Ministry of Public Works (MPW) performance is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. MPW Directorate of Planning's performance shared similar weaknesses
with the Bank team during the early stages of the project for the factors that resulted in
extensive delays. Once the CTC services were on-board in 2009, the performance, as
represented by the PMU, was much stronger and particularly active in maintaining
continuous communication with the Bank in order to ensure efficient implementation
progress in the second half of the project. Additional shortcomings include the failure of
the Inspectorate General to implement the required technical audits on a regular basis and
lack of attention to allocation and disbursement timing conditions in the DIPA,
Government’s annual fiscal budget approval document, which resulted in many late
payments to Contractors.
75.     Ministry of Transport – Directorate General of Land Transport performance
is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The late stage termination of the IRSMS-1,
following the delays in the procurement, could have been addressed earlier with greater
attention from this agency.
76.   National Traffic Police Corps performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
There were many delays in the procurement, which could have been addressed earlier

                                            - 18 -
with greater attention from this agency. However, IRSMS-2 was ultimately completed
with highly successful outcomes and strong commitment from the National Traffic Police
Corps to its use and continued roll-out at the province level.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
77.      The national government and implementing agencies devoted substantial
effort to resolving project issues and positively contributed to the partial
achievement of the PDOs. However, the main shortcomings were related to lack of
sufficient commitment to specific project components during preparation and
implementation. The overall rating considers borrower performance across the
government rating of Moderately Satisfactory and the implementing agency rating of
Moderately Unsatisfactory, with an overall assessment of Moderately Satisfactory which
is also in line with the fact that the PDO achievement is Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
78.     Lack of sufficient readiness on the part of the Government immediately after
the loan signing results in significant implementation delays. In the case of SRIP, the
loan was approved in July 2006 without sufficient actions to ensure consulting services
were ready to start. The conditions of effectiveness related to these consulting services
led to tensions between the Bank and the Borrower on the timing of the loan signing. The
selection of consultants was significantly delayed following signing, which led to
downstream delays in the remaining (Group 2 and 3) works packages. It is suggested that
the readiness of the project should be carefully examined to ensure that the initial groups
of civil works are ready to start and the supervision teams are in place prior to the
commencement of construction works.
79.     Restrictions in the Government’s budget cycle, such as the need to re-budget
for delayed activities at the beginning of the new fiscal year, lead to disbursement
lags and delayed payments to contractors and consultants. In the case of Indonesia,
DIPA (the government’s budget document) is based on a disbursement plan and includes
both loan and national funding. Difficulties arise if at the end of each fiscal year any
portion is unused, because it is effectively lost and must be re-budgeted in the following
year. If an activity was not re-budgeted for the following year, then it had to wait for the
budget revision process to be completed before any disbursement could be made. This
lack of anticipation and timely arrangement of the project disbursements in budgeting can
lead to disbursement lags and result in delayed payments to contractors and consultants.
80.    The effectiveness of road safety measures are jeopardized when road safety
audits (RSA) are only conducted during implementation. An important lesson, which
was reflected in the WINRIP design, is that RSAs should start at design stage prior to the
bidding, so that physical requirements can be included in the Bill of Quantity (BOQ).
During construction, standardized RSAs should be conducted on all project roads. These
measures can have enhanced sustainability by including road safety trainings and
seminars for project stakeholders. Monitoring of the RSAs should be supported by a
corresponding intermediate outcome indicator in the Results Framework.


                                             - 19 -
81.     Anti-corruption measures that lack alignment with broader Government
priorities and systems are difficult to implement. Anti-corruption strategies that rely
on either the addition of multiple layers of review and/or the bypassing of governmental
processes are often unsuccessful. Approaches that address systemic problems in
government systems and enhance transparency are often more successful and sustainable.
In the case of SRIP, imposing additional anti-corruption measures (i.e. Procurement
Advisory Services) was counter-productive for the related objective of improving
procurement efficiency and had a damaging effect on the Bank-DGH relationship. Lack
of trust in the Bank-Borrower relationship can negatively impact implementation and can
jeopardize PDO achievement.
82.    Scattering of subprojects over a wide geographical area complicates
supervision and increases oversight costs. A corridor approach, as used in WINRIP,
allows segments to be grouped and located in sequence, thereby easing technical
supervision and third party monitoring.
83.     Conventional economic analysis methods and tools do not sufficiently
capture the full benefit values of road investments. The EIRR of new roads is shown
to be lower compared to capacity expansion and could lead to the conclusion that
capacity expansion and/or betterment are more effective than new roads development.
However, this is because the analysis methods do not account for benefits to the
surrounding road network. In the case of bypass investments, traffic improvement on the
existing roads due to bypass development should also be considered in the benefit
calculations. The lesson learned from this project is that other variables e.g.,
environmental benefits, need to be considered and better estimation on value of time is
needed to fully capture benefits of reduced congestion.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                         - 20 -
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest        Percentage of
           Components
                                        (USD)         Estimate (USD)        Appraisal
Component 1: Improvements to            262.1              208.8              79.7%
Strategic National Roads
Component 2: Implementation              20.1               12.6              62.7%
Support
Component 3: Road Sector                  4.1                4.0              98.4%
Institutional Development
               Total Project Costs      286.3              225.5              78.8%
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.5                0.5             100.0%
Refund of PPA                                                0.2
                Total Financing          286.8             226.2              78.8%

(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds              Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                      millions)   millions)
Borrower                                                79.0        52.1         65.9%
International Bank for Reconstruction                  208.0       174.1         83.7%
and Development
Total Financing                                        287.0       226.2        78.8%




                                             - 21 -
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

       Component 1: Improvements to                          Outputs:
         Strategic National Roads
(a) Betterment of approximately 155          The original concept of civil works in
    kilometers of urban and inter-urban      Component 1 being carried out over a
    roads;                                   designated three year Work Plan (WP1
(b) Expansion of road capacity on            through WP3) had to be revised because of
    approximately 85 kilometers of urban     many delays to all three components and
    and inter-urban roads, including         was subsequently referred to as Group 1
    bridges;                                 through 5. Implementation of this
(c) Construction of approximately 55         Component 1 extended over seven years
    kilometers of new urban and inter-       and encompassed 20 packages, only six of
    urban roads, including bridges;          which commenced during the first year of
(d) Construction of a new bridge of          the project.
    approximately 50 meters on an inter-     (a) Actual betterment of 106.42 kilometers
    urban road; and                              of urban and inter-urban roads.
(e) Implementation of a Performance-         (b) Actual expansion of road capacity
    Based Contract Pilot Program on an           along 84.84 kilometers of urban and
    approximately 110 kilometer section of       inter-urban roads, including bridges.
    the North Java Corridor, involving       (c) Construction of 37.10 kilometers of
    betterment of approximately 10               new urban and inter-urban roads,
    kilometers and maintenance of                including bridges. One package was
    approximately 110 kilometers.                terminated half way through
                                                 construction mainly as a result of no
                                                 progress but other mitigating factors.
                                             (d) Construction of a new bridge of
                                                 approximately 50 meters on an inter-
                                                 urban road in Central Java, with final
                                                 actual length of 52 m by virtue of
                                                 standard segment lengths
                                             (e) The implementation of a Performance-
                                                 Based Contract Pilot Program on a 110
                                                 kilometer section of the North Java
                                                 Corridor, involving a betterment of
                                                 10.40 kilometers and maintenance of
                                                 approximately 100 kilometers was
                                                 dropped as a result of insufficient
                                                 projected funds.

    Component 2: Implementation Support                      Outputs:

(a) Support to the Directorate of Planning   (a) The support services were provided by
    of MPW and the PMU in Project                Core Team Consultants (CTC)


                                         - 22 -
      implementation, including             (b) The assistance services were provided
      environmental management, project         by Construction Supervision
      performance monitoring,                   Consultants (CSC) – 1 for non-
      implementation of the Anti-Corruption     metropolitan roads, and Construction
      Action Plan, financial management and     Supervision Consultants (CSC) – 2 for
      monitoring, evaluation and reporting;     metropolitan roads.
(b)   Assistance to MPW in the design of    (c) The Performance-Based Contract Pilot
      works, pre-contract activities,           Program was dropped from the loan
      supervision of construction and       (d) The assistance service was provided by
      implementation management for Sub-        both the Procurement Agents and the
      Projects;                                 Procurement Advisory Services (PAS).
(c)   Assistance to MPW in preparation and
      implementation of the Performance-
      Based Contract Pilot Program;
(d)   Assistance to MPW in the procurement
      of Consultancy services and works,
      including in implementation of the
      Anti-Corruption Action Plan; and
(e)   Assistance to MPW in carrying out
      financial and technical audits on
      Project works.
           Component 3: Road Sector                          Outputs:
           Institutional Development
(a) Supporting Indonesia's overall road       (a) The Integrated Road Safety
    safety strategy (US$3.5 million) by           Management System (IRSMS) – 1
    developing: (i) an integrated road            under the Ministry of Transportation
    safety strategy and long-term plan,           was dropped, while the Integrated
    including an institutional framework;         Road Safety Management Systems
    and (ii) a pilot integrated road accident     (IRSMS) – 2 under the National
    database/analysis system, and                 Traffic Police was successfully
    establishing self-sustaining personnel        completed with expanded activities.
    development procedures for traffic        (b) During the course of the project, a
    police; and                                   number of training courses were held
(b) Training of Project staff (US$0.6             on ACAP, procurement, financial
    million) in the application of the            monitoring, environmental monitoring,
    Project Management Manual, including          road safety audits, and the project
    procedures for procurement, financial         management manual.
    management, and reporting, and in the
    application of the Anti-Corruption
    Action Plan and the Environmental and
    Social Assessment Management Plan.




                                         - 23 -
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The general approach used for the post-construction evaluation of the packages followed
conventional economic evaluation methodology for road projects using the latest version
of HDM-4 (Version 2.08). Economic evaluation is the process of estimating the streams
of costs and benefits arising over the life of a project, to determine whether the project
gives good value for money. The benefits and costs are defined by comparing the project
case with a “do-minimum” (without investment) case, which should incorporate
reasonable assumptions about what would happen in the absence of the project,
particularly in respect of road maintenance in the “do-minimum” case.

The SRIP study considered 3 different types of road investment:
    Betterment: resurfacing and/or structural strengthening, along the existing
      alignment and without change to the carriageway widths;
    Capacity expansion (Capex): widening an existing road;
    Bypasses: new roads designed to relieve congestion on existing roads, normally
      around urban areas.

The restructured project scope comprised a total of 19 packages in Groups 1, 2 and 3 (the
Group 4 and 5 packages were dropped). The table below provides a summary of project
lengths by type of works comparing the original Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
values with the actual lengths.

Table 0-1: Summary of Project Lengths

Type of Works                           Original PAD (km)       Actual Length (km)
New Roads                                       54.07                    37.1
Capacity Expansion                              92.39                   84.84
Betterment                                     144.55                  106.42
Performance Based Contracts (PBC)               110.4                     0
Total Lengths                                  401.41                  228.36

The overall EIRR for the post-construction economic evaluations is 89% with an
estimated Net Present Value at 15% discount rate of IDR 6,565 billion (approximately
$730 million at the initial exchange rate of 1 USD = 9000 IDR). This compares with an
average EIRR at PAD appraisal of 41%.

The table below gives a comparison of the EIRR results at PAD and at post-construction
evaluation by Work Program and by Work Type. In general, by works program, the
results are significantly improved at post-construction evaluation compared with PAD.
The same applies to the new road construction projects and the capacity extension
projects, although for betterment projects, the results, although very satisfactory, are
lower overall and specifically for Groups 1 and 2 compared with PAD.



                                          - 24 -
Table 0-2: Comparison of the EIRR Results at PAD and at Post-Construction
Evaluation

                                                           Work Type
  Economic Internal Rate of                                  Capacity
                                     Betterment                                   New Roads
       Return (EIRR)                                        Expansion
                                   PAD    Evaluation     PAD Evaluation        PAD      Evaluation
        Work Program               60%      49%          73%      175%         19%        44%
           PAD Evaluation
Group 1    46%       95%            59%      27%          56%       185%       21%          44%
Group 2    40%       66%            95%      54%          62%       107%       10%          44%
Group 3    85%      142%           149%     209%         104%        92%        -             -
All Sub-
           41%       89%
Projects*
*Excludes Brebes – Tegal which was not completed and assumes completion of Bandar Lampung A in
2014.
Source: Consultants estimates based on HDM-4 analysis

The post-construction economic evaluations took into account quantifiable costs of road
construction and maintenance, whereas the main quantifiable benefits are reduced vehicle
operating costs (VOC), travel time savings for road users and reductions in accidents.
The table below gives a summary of the post-construction evaluation results by work
program and work type with the breakdown of benefits in million USD in terms of
vehicle operating costs, travel time and accident benefits as well as the NPV and EIRR.

Table 0-3: Summary of Post-Construction Evaluation Results by Work Program
and Type

                                                      Travel                      Net
                                        VOC                       Accidents                  Internal
                                                       Time                     Present
                                      Benefits                     Benefits                   Rate of
             Packages                                Benefits                    Value
                                       (USD                         (USD                      Return
                                                      (USD                       (USD
                                      millions)*                  millions)*                   (%)
                                                     millions)*                millions)*

All Group 1 and 2 and 3 Projects          423           184          227          729          89.2
All Group 1 Projects                      185            66           73          269          95.5
All Group 2 Projects                      182            98          108          352          66.4
All Group 3 Projects                       56            20           46          109         141.5
All Betterment Projects                   130            65           59          234          48.7
All Capacity Expansion Projects           245            89          153          434         175.2
All New Road Projects                      48            30           15           61          43.7
All Group 1 Betterment Projects             6             5           13           14          26.7
All Group 2 Betterment Projects           104            53           43          193          53.6
All Group 3 Betterment Projects            20             7           3            27         209.4
All Group 1 Capacity Expansion
Projects                                  153           43           48           219         186.5

                                            - 25 -
 All Group 2 Capacity Expansion
 Projects**                                56            32           61         133       106.6
 All Group 3 Capacity Expansion
 Projects                                  36            14           43         82        92.1
 All Group 1 New Road Projects             26            18           12         36        43.7
 All Group 2 New Road Projects**           22            12           3          25        43.8
*Exchange Rate: 1 USD = 9,000 IDR
**Excludes Brebes – Tegal which was not completed and assumes completion of Bandar Lampung A in
2014.
Source: Consultants estimates based on HDM-4 analysis

There were several changes in the extent of the works, in particular as a result of reducing
the length of works, but also in the type of works carried out and therefore the direct
comparison of the economic evaluation of individual project packages with the original
analysis is of limited value.

Table 0-4: Summary Comparison of Post-Construction and PAD Results by Work
Package

                                                           NPV        PAD EIRR       Post-
        Package
Group                       Package Name                  (USD          (%)       Construction
        Number
                                                         millions)*                EIRR (%)
  1         1      Karawang Bypass                           21            14          45
            2      Semarang NRR                              14            16          36
            3      Demak Bypass                             122            35        336
            4      Ngawi Ring Road                           16            47          42
            5      Karangampel – Cirebon                     14             7          27
            8      Semarang – Demak                          83            34        220
  2         6      Cianjur Ring Road                         23            39          59
            7      Brebes – Tegal Bypass                     -6            22         -14
           11      Widang – Lamongan                          7            74          48
           15      Pasuruan – Pilang                        147            79          40
           16      Soekarno – Hatta, Bandung                 46            79        141
           17      Boyolali – Kartosuro                      54            31        146
           18      Ambarawa Ring Road                         2            36          23
           22      Magelang - Keprekan                       73            79        101
  3         9      Pejagan – Losari                           8            47        294
           10      Cilegon – Pasauran                        15            30        198
           12      Bandar Lampung Bypass                     45            62          58
          12A      Bandar Lampung Bypass A                   23            62          50
          12B      Bandar Lampung Bypass B                   22            62          70
           13      Palmerah Ring Road, Jambi                  4            30        124
           14      Palembang Western Ring Road               37            36        189
                   All packages**                           729            41        89.2
*Exchange Rate: 1 USD = 9,000 IDR
**Excludes Brebes – Tegal which was not completed
Source: Consultants estimates based on HDM-4 analysis



                                                - 26 -
Description of Key Model Assumptions and Limitations
The post-construction economic evaluation was carried out using HDM-4, the Highway
Development and Management Tool. A key advantage of HDM-4 relative to other tools
used in Indonesia is that it allows flexibility in specifying observed levels for parameters
such as traffic volumes and road roughness, which is necessary when undertaking an
evaluation of a completed project. However, the previous use of HDM-4 in Indonesia has
demonstrated that various elements of the model need to be specifically calibrated to
local conditions. A discussion of all the calibrated inputs to HDM-4 is presented in the
Report on Post-Construction Economic Evaluation.
a. Vehicle fleet parameters for 10 vehicle types were specifically adapted to the
   Indonesian fleet characteristics. Specific problems have been noted where
   motorcycles make up a very high proportion of the total traffic and for these
   evaluations the passenger car space equivalence for motorcycles was reduced to the
   absolute minimum value of 0.1.
b. Existing project roads are carrying very high traffic volumes and in many cases
   involving Capex and new road construction, they would have reached their practical
   capacity without the implementation of the project packages. In these cases, traffic
   growth “cut-offs” were applied to ensure that normal traffic remained the same in the
   “do-minimum” as for the “with-project” case.
c. Fuel consumption predicted by HDM-4 was found to be too low compared with
   information from operators in the case of most vehicle types. This could be caused
   by congested traffic conditions and overloading of freight vehicles in Indonesia. In
   accordance with previous studies, the calibration factor for total engine and
   accessories power Kpea, has been used to increase fuel consumption by 10 per cent
   for all vehicles types, by adjusting the default value of 1.0 to 1.1.
d. HDM-4 default values for speed prediction, the resulting free-flow speeds were
   much higher than those observed on most roads in Indonesia. Based on speed
   surveys, observed speeds were found to be similar to those forecast by the
   Indonesian Highway Capacity Manual (IHCM) – typically 60% of those predicted
   using HDM-4 defaults, but 50% in the case of trucks and 90% in the case of large
   buses. In order to deal with this, the Consultants have followed the recommendations
   in EIRTP-2 applying adjusted values for VDESIR, speed beta and ARVMAX in
   order to achieve more representative speed predictions.
e. The modelled speeds in HDM-4 are also influenced by the posted speed limit and a
   speed limit enforcement factor must also be specified. The posted speed limit is the
   legal speed limit set on the road by the highway authority. The enforcement factor,
   for which the default is 1.1, is applied to the speed limit to allow for the fact that
   drivers will not comply with the legal limit in all cases. If the speed limit times the
   enforcement factor is below the value for VDESIR it replaces VDESIR in the speed
   calculation. Speed limits are not generally enforced in Indonesia and so, as in
   EIRTP-2, the speed limit has been set at 100 km/h and the enforcement factor at 1.1,
   so that the resulting figure is equal to the highest level used for VDESIR, and so
   having no impact on speeds. Thus speeds are determined by road characteristics and
   vehicle specifications rather than by nominal speed restrictions.



                                           - 27 -
Actual Construction Cost and Economic Evaluation Period
The construction costs included civil works costs, land costs and resettlement costs as
appropriate. Financial costs excluding taxes were converted to economic costs by
applying a standard conversion factor for non-traded goods, such as margins and
overheads and a value of 0.91 was used consistent with the previous EIRTP-2 post
project economic evaluations. The intention was to use actual audited final construction
costs; however, final costs are not yet available for all packages.
  a. All the costs for Group 1 projects, as well as those for Widang-Lamongan,
      Soekarno-Hatta Bandung and Brebes-Tegal Bypass (which was terminated) from
      Group 2 are actual final construction costs.
  b. Best estimates of final costs for remaining Group 3 projects as of 1 April 2014 were
      used based on the unaudited costs with interim or final escalation included. The
      construction works on Bandar Lampung A are still in progress.
  c. Construction works on Package 7 (Brebes-Tegal Bypass) were terminated with the
      works not yet completed. For the purposes of the economic evaluation a four year
      construction period 2010-2013 was assumed. The package was modelled over a 10
      year period as a project with zero benefits and it was assumed that the project could
      be completed using national funds by 2017 and therefore a 50% salvage value was
      assumed for that year.
  d. Construction works on Bandar Lampung “A” were not yet complete as at 1 April
      2014. For the current evaluations it was assumed that the works would be
      completed in 2014.
The economic evaluation period was set at 25 years for all packages, with the first year of
analysis in 2008. The capital costs are based on the actual contract amounts which were
paid during the period 2008-2013. Adjustment has been made to convert these to the
2008 price level using the Construction Price Index for “Public Works on Roads, Bridges
and Ports” published by the Central Office of Statistics. A residual (or salvage) value for
project improvement works at the end of the evaluation period is often included as a
benefit in road project economic evaluations and takes the form of a negative cost in the
final year of evaluation. The Consultants have assumed a standard residual value of 25%
of the investment cost (consistent with the EIRTP-2 post project economic evaluations)
for the purposes of the current economic evaluations.
Sensitivity of Economic Analysis Results
A series of sensitivity tests were carried out for the SRIP Project Packages involving
reductions in the vehicle operating cost benefits, time benefits and accident benefits by -
20%, as well as a “worst case scenario”, where all benefits are reduced by 20%. The
results of the sensitivity analysis by work package are set out in the table below, which
includes the effects of the benefit reductions on both the NPV (expressed in $ millions)
and on the EIRR.

These sensitivity tests indicate that the results are very robust across the full range of
sensitivity tests. Even in the “worst case scenario”, there are no cases (apart from Brebes -
Tegal Bypass which was not completed) where the net present value is negative. The
combined result for all project packages under the “worst case scenario” still achieves an
EIRR of more than 70% and NPV of more than $560 million.

                                           - 28 -
Table 0-5: Results of Sensitivity Analysis by Work Package
                                                         VOC Benefits -      Time Benefits -    Accident benefits -   All Benefits -20%
                                          Base Case            20%                 20%                20%
                                       NPV *             NPV *               NPV *                                     NPV *
Package                                          EIRR              EIRR                EIRR    NPV * ($     EIRR                  EIRR
               Package Name              ($                ($                  ($                                        ($
Number                                            (%)               (%)                 (%)    millions)     (%)                   (%)
                                      millions)         millions)           millions)                                 millions)
   1      Karawang Bypass                21      44.9      19        41.0      18       42.3     19          43.6        14       36.8
   2      Semarang NRR                   14      35.6      12        32.5      13       34.7     12          34.0         9       29.9
   3      Demak Bypass                  122     335.7     105       293.0     118      329.5     118        330.3        97       280.6
   4      Ngawi Ring Road                16      41.7      12        36.3      15       40.5     15          41.1        11       34.5
   5      Karangampel – Cirebon          14      26.7      12        25.4      13       25.8     11          24.9         9       22.7
   8      Semarang – Demak               83     220.1      72       185.5      79      213.3     79         218.1        64       176.4
   6      Cianjur Ring Road              23      58.7      20        52.8      22       56.7     22          57.7        17       49.6
   7      Brebes – Tegal Bypass          -6      -14       -6        -14       -6       -14       -6         -14         -6        -14
   11     Widang – Lamongan               7      47.6       6        45.4       6       46.1       6         44.4         5       40.5
   15     Pasuruan – Pilang             147      39.8     134        42.5     139       39.2     138         38.5       117       40.0
   16     Soekarno – Hatta, Bandung      46     140.7      39       123.2      44      135.1     46         140.7        36       117.4
   17     Boyolali – Kartosuro           54     145.6      49       125.2      51      140.3     49         142.9        42       116.9
   18     Ambarawa Ring Road              2      22.8       1        19.1       1       19.9       2         23.0       0.3       16.2
   22     Magelang - Keprekan            73     100.9      67        92.9      69       98.0     66          96.6        57       85.4
   9      Pejagan – Losari                8     294.4       7       251.3       8      289.9       8        294.3         7       246.7
   10     Cilegon – Pasauran             15     198.4      13       170.3      14      192.3     15         197.9        12       164.1
   12     Bandar Lampung Bypass          45      58.2      42        54.2      44       56.9     40          54.4        35       49.1
  12A     Bandar Lampung Bypass A        23      49.8      21        47.0      22       48.8     20          46.7        18       42.8
  12B     Bandar Lampung Bypass B        22      70.4      21        64.7      21       68.7     20          65.8        17       58.5
   13     Palmerah    Ring Road,          4     123.8       3        97.4       4      117.7       4        122.7         2       88.7
          Jambi
   14     Palembang Western Ring        37      189.2     33        147.1     36       181.3      33        181.2        29       133.5
          Road
          All packages**                729     89.2      645       79.4      693      86.6      684         87.1       563       74.3
Source: Consultants estimates based on HDM-4 analysis

                                                                - 29 -
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                   Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
                                                                     Task Team Leader
Hatim M. Hajj               Senior Transport Specialist        EASTR until February 28,
                                                                     2006
Jerry Lebo                  Senior Transport Specialist        EASTR Task Team Leader
Sally Burningham            Senior Transport Specialist        EASTR Task Team Leader
Alain Dube                  Senior Transport Specialist        EASTR
Mesra Eza                   Operations Officer, Transport      EACIF
Kundhavi Kadiresan          Portfolio Manager                  EACIF
Yogana Prasta               Senior Disbursement Officer        EACIF
Novira Kusdarti Asra        Financial Management Specialist    EACIF
Imad Saleh                  Lead Procurement Specialist        EACIF
Firman Dharmawan            Procurement Specialist             EACIF
Glenn Morgan                Lead Environmental Specialist      EASES
Farida Zaituni              Operations Analyst (Environment) EACIF
James Monday                Consultant (Environment)           EASEN
Mackay Angus                Consultant (Environment)           EACIF
Asger Christensen           Lead Social Development Specialist EASSD
Bruce Harris                Consultant (Social Issue)          EASRD
Sulistiowati Nainggolan     Urban Specialist                   EACIF
                            Consultant (Land Acquisition and
Francisca Melia Setiawati                                      EACIF
                            Resettlement)
                            Senior Social Development
Steven Burgess                                                 EACIF
                            Specialist (Anti-corruption)
Junxue Chu                  Finance Officer                    LOAG1
Anthony Toft                Chief Counsel                      LEGEA
Melinda Good                Senior Counsel                     LEGEA
                            Senior Economist (Quality
Imogene Jensen              Assurance, Economics, Sector       EASIN
                            Issues)
Sri Oktorini                Program Assistant                  EACIF
Christopher De Serio        Senior Program Assistant           EASTR
Supervision/ICR
Mitsuyoshi Asada            Sr. Transport Spec.                   EASIN Task Team Leader
Novira Kusdarti Asra        Sr Financial Management Specialist   EASFM
Mustapha Benmaamar          Sr Transport. Spec.                  ECSTR
Amilia Aldian               Transport Engineer                   EASTR
Anthony G. Bliss            Consultant                           TWITR
Sally L. Burningham         Sector Manager                       LCSDE
Mesra Eza                   E T Consultant                       EASTE -

                                          - 30 -
                                                             HIS
Imogene B. Jensen           Consultant                      EASTS
Woo Hyun Kwon               Untitled                        EASIN
Jerry A. Lebo               Senior Operations Officer       WBIRP
Zhentu Liu                  Senior Procurement Specialist   EASR2
James Orehmie Monday        Senior Environmental Engineer   SASDI
Sulistiowati Ms.            Consultant                      EASHE
Anna R. Okola               Transport. Engineer             LCSTR
Sri Oktorini                Program Assistant               EACIF
Yogana Prasta               Operations Adviser              EACIF
Imad Saleh                  Operations Adviser              LCSDE
Virza S. Sasmitawidjaja     Consultant                      EASIS
Andrew Daniel Sembel        Environmental Specialist        EASIS
Francisca Melia Setiawati   Consultant                      EASIN
Dewi Wandansari             Consultant                      EASIS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks         travel and consultant
                                                                         costs)
Lending
  FY03                                         4.59                   24.56
  FY04                                        19.39                   56.14
  FY05                                        41.44                  136.48
  FY06                                        67.67                  204.18
  FY07                                                                 0.00
 FY08                                                                  0.00
                            Total:                                   421.36
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                        34.01                  100.09
  FY08                                        17.14                   77.75
  FY09                                        21.31                   92.01
  FY10                                        33.50                  110.60
  FY11                                        33.89                  120.23
  FY12                                        22.51                  105.84
  FY13                                        21.40                   82.08
  FY14                                        22.40                   87.02
  FY15                                         8.06                   30.14
                            Total:                                   805.76

                                          - 31 -
- 32 -
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

None done.




                                      - 33 -
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

None done.




                                  - 34 -
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Executive Summary of the Directorate General of Highway (DGH) Project
Completion Report

0.1 Project Background

The Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project (SRIP) was a logical continuation to the
Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project (SURIP: IBRD Loan No. 4054-IND)
which successfully reduced traffic bottlenecks in selected areas along the North Java
Corridor. The SRIP loan was negotiated during early 2007, signed between GoI and the
Bank on 13 September 2007 and became effective on 1 st November 2007.
The agency responsible for preparing and implementing the project was the Directorate
General of Highways within the Ministry of Public Works. Overall loan management
was handled by a Project Management Unit (PMU) and implementation of individual
packages by Non-Vertical Project Units forming the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).

0.2 Brief Description of the Project

The project envisaged activities in all the five provinces in Java and in three provinces
on Sumatra in the form of 22 civil sub-projects involving improvements to the road
network together with various types of technical assistance. The majority of the
original concepts were realized although a few were cancelled for various reasons and
the extent of some was reduced. From the PAD, the total estimated cost for the project
was US$ 287 million of which US$ 208 million was to be provided by the loan.
The Financing Plan for the SRIP Project was set up with 70% from the IBRD loan in
US$ and 30% local finance from the Borrower for construction Works. The split for
Incremental Operating Costs which were reimbursed through a special account was
80% from the loan and 20% local funding while all Consultancy works and Goods were
100% reimbursed from the loan.

     0.2.1 Overall Loan Allocation
The overall loan allocation with the various amendments is given in the table below
into the seven Categories used in the Loan Agreement.

                   Original                                                                        Est. Final
                                                                                    Est. Final
                  Amount of    Rev. No. 1   Rev. No. 2    Rev. No. 3   % to be                    Distribution
  Category                                                                         Distribution
                  Loan US$      MilUS$       MilUS$        MilUS$      financed                       US$
                                                                                        %
                   (million)                                                                       (million)
    Works           174.000     183.685      168.685       158.685       70%         99.95*        158.609*
     Goods          1.325        1.075        1.075         1.075        100%         82.90          0.891
 Consultant’s
 services and       19.950      18.405       18.405        18.405        100%        86.24*         15.872*
    training
  Incremental
                    0.720        0.720        0.720         0.720        80%         56.39*         0.406*
operating costs
 Refund of the
                                                                       Pursuant
     Project
                    2.050        2.050        2.050         2.050      to Loan       10.34*         0.212*
  Preparation
                                                                       Agreement
    Advance



                                                 - 35 -
                                                                                       Pursuant
Front- end Fee          0.520             0.520             0.520          0.520       to Loan          100             0.520
                                                                                       Agreement
 Unallocated         9.435               0                    0             0               0           %                 0
   Cancel                              1.545                15.000        10.000
 Total Loan
                  208,000,000       206,455,176         191,455,176     181,455,176                   97.28*           176.510*
  Amount
         NB:-* are current best estimates

      0.2.2 Project Component 1: Civil Works
Component 1, “Improvements to Strategic National Roads” is summarized in the table below
with the “Revised Lengths” following the Loan Amendments. Costs are total and include
both the Loan and GoI portions. Percentages are derived from the revised lengths.

           Description          PAD Value          Actual           %      PIP        Revised      Actual       % of
                                US$ Total         Final cost             length       Length       Length       Rev.
                                  Costs              US$                  Km.          Km           Km.        Length
          New Road                62.63            62.35*       99.5      54.07       54.07         37.10      68.6
          Capex                   97.16            94.73*       100       92.39       85.39         84.84      99.4
          Betterment              67.25            63.48*       83.2     144.60       106.35       106.47      100.1
          Bridges                 0.53              0.72        100       0.05         0.05         0.053      106.0
          PBC                     21.0                0          0       110.40         0             0         100
          Totals                 248.57            221.28       89.0     401.46       245.81       228.41      92.9
                       NB:- Values with a * are current best estimates


      0.2.3 Project Component 2: Implementation Support
Component 2 included a) support to the Directorate of Planning of MPW and the PMU in
project implementation carried out by CTC which was successfully carried out; b) assistance
to MPW in the design of works, pre-contract activities, supervision of works and
implementation management for sub-projects all of which were successfully carried out ; c)
assistance to MPW in preparation and implementation of the Performance Based Contract
Pilot Programme which was eventually cancelled from the project; d) assistance to MPW in
the procurement of consultancy services and works including the implementation of the Anti-
Corruption Action Plan (ACAP) which was only moderately successful with procurement but
eminently successful with ACAP and e) assistance to MPW in carrying out financial and
technical audits on project works which was not complete at the time of preparation of this
report.

       0.2.4 Project Component 3: Road Sector Capacity Building
Component 3 “Road Sector Institutional Development” included two sub-components with
the first part intended to support Indonesia’s overall road safety strategy in the form of a)
IRSMS-1 which had the intention of developing an integrated road safety strategy and long-
term plan including an institutional framework and b) IRSMS-2 which had the intention of
developing a pilot integrated road accident database/analysis system and establishing self-
sustaining personnel development procedures for traffic police. Unfortunately IRSMS-1 had
to be cancelled but IRSMS-2 was expanded considerably in scope and subsequently proved
to be a most successful sub-component of SRIP. The second part of Component C included
training of project staff in the application of the Project Management Manual, including
procurement procedures, financial management procedures, reporting procedures and in the
application of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan and the Environmental and Social Assessment

                                                               - 36 -
Management Plan. This component is also considered to have been very successful with
training having been carried out on all intended topics.

0.3 Assessment of Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project development objectives were identified in the PAD with achievement of the PDO
to be assessed by the following key performance indicators:
      a. percentage reduction in travel times on Sub-Project roads; this indicator did not
          quite reach the full expectation but came very close to the projected increase of
          35% with an average actual improvement of 32% in travel times.
      b. annual average daily traffic (AADT) on Sub-Project roads relative to forecast
          flows as reported in the Project Implementation Plan; this indicator comfortably
          reached the target figure of 20% with an actual 21.5% increase.
      c. Performance-Based Contract Pilot Program implemented as designed; this
          objective had to be cancelled in its entirety but was taken up by another loan
          agency.
      d. Road safety studies and pilot program carried out as designed; one complete
          section (IRSMS-1) of the intended approach was cancelled but the other half
          (IRSMS-2) was considerably expanded resulting in a very successful Accident
          Information System (AIS) being implemented to cover all of Indonesia rather
          than just the original concept of a pilot area study only. In addition, with road
          safety audits carried out on every construction package, this was a significantly
          higher achievement than the one pilot study envisaged in the PAD.
      e. Anti-Corruption Action Plan implemented and construction supervision carried
          out as designed (percentage of new contracts fully compliant with no breaches);
          this plan was fully implemented on all aspects of the project.
      f. number of technical audits carried out; all results were not yet available at the
          time of preparation of this report but every package had had at least one type of
          audit.
      g. number of kilometers of betterment, capacity expansion, and new roads
          constructed, and number of meters of bridges completed; total kilometers
          completed reached almost 93% of the revised roads totals and over 100% of the
          bridge lengths following the final loan amendment targets.

0.4 Summary of Outputs by Project Components

The majority of the performance indicators met the revised targets with the main problem
affecting Component 1 resulting from one new road construction package being
terminated. Component 2 was reasonably successful although the cancellation of all
Performance Based activities affected the overall performance of the component.
Unfortunately Component 3 was also only partly successful with one section of support
to Indonesia’s overall road safety strategy, IRSMS-1, having to be cancelled. This
cancellation however was more than compensated for with the success of the second road
safety strategy section in the form of IRSMS-2 which more than exceeded expectations
with the introduction of a nationwide world class Accident Information System (AIS) .



                                          - 37 -
The final part of Component 3, Training of Project Staff, can also be considered
successful by virtue of the many workshops held during the project.

0.5 Overall Ratings Summary

Because of the wide range of activities in any particular category it is not possible to
give a single descriptive rating.

       Performance Rating by PCR
       Outcome:                            Satisfactory
       Bank Performance:                   Highly Satisfactory to Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance:               Moderately Satisfactory

0.6 Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

      0.6.1 Context at Appraisal
The relevant Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was dated 29 October 2003 with a
progress report prepared and presented to the Bank during 2006. At that time the core
issues were recognized as a) the government had triggered genuine momentum in the
fight against corruption; b) governance indicators were slowly improving; c) the Bank
had already introduced a rigorous fiduciary framework; d) that growth was slowly rising
and poverty falling but that d) an inadequate infrastructure remained a major impediment
to investment and poverty reduction.

      0.6.2 Original Project Development Objectives
The primary project objective was to improve competitiveness by improving the capacity
and quality of strategic national roads on Java and Sumatra while also improving road
safety and increasing the efficiency, quality and transparency of works procurement and
implementation. This was most certainly achieved although possibly not to the full extent
envisaged in the PAD.

     0.6.3 Revised Project Development Objectives
Project development objectives were not revised during the project although all
components were not implemented in full.

     0.6.4 Main Beneficiaries.
The PAD noted that more than 58% of the population of Indonesia is in Java with 21% in
Sumatra. Consequently it was estimated that 40 to 45 million people were likely to
benefit from the project.

     0.6.5 Components, original and revised
The original components were
1: Improvements to Strategic National Roads
2: Implementation Support
3: Road Sector Institutional Development


                                         - 38 -
These original basic components were not revised during the project although all
components were not completed in their entirety and some were modified slightly.

0.7 Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

      0.7.1 Project Preparation, Design Stage, and Quality at Entry
Project preparation included the following main factors a) readiness for implementation;
b) quality of engineering designs; c) documentation preparation; d) procurement
procedures and e) compliance with legal covenants. Many lessons had been learned from
previous projects including SURIP and EIRTP2 and many of these lessons had gradually
been adopted as standard DGH procedures thus ensuring that implementation went
reasonably smoothly but the fact that many components were not fully achieved means
that preparation and designs including quality at entry are still a long way from being
perfect.

      0.7.2 Implementation Stage
The majority of the performance indicators achieved the anticipated expectations
although some aspects of the original concepts had to be abandoned during
implementation.
One performance indicator relating to improvements in the capacity of the national
network failed to attain full expectations, because one construction package was
terminated when only half finished but the project as a whole can still be considered as a
success because of the number of real improvements to the network. Implementation of
the technical assistance components may appear as if some have failed but in fact, if
looked at realistically, this was actually quite successful although that opinion does to
some extent depend on ones interpretation of the intent of the performance indicator. In
relation to the road sector capacity building component this is also considered a success
in spite of IRSMS-1 having to be cancelled since the cancellation of IRSMS-1 led to a
doubling of the input for IRSMS-2 which is considered to be one of the more successful
aspects of the project.

      0.7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and
            Utilisation
Unfortunately details of all the technical audits by the Inspectorate General had not been
released at the time of preparation of this report because frequently there is a long delay
between the actual audits and the finding being made available.

      0.7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
In most cases both safeguard and fiduciary compliance was enacted faithfully in
accordance with ESAMP for environmental safeguards and the Project Management
Manual and ACAP for fiduciary aspects, There were a few notable exceptions however,
in relation to the initial land acquisition requirements and lack of compliance with safety
issues during construction such as traffic management, material stockpiles near the
roadway and dust suppression. Continual cognizance of ACAP ensured that this aspect of
fiduciary compliance was very successful as the full quota of complaints, amounting to
over 50 in total, were all successfully dealt with and no complaints were reported by

                                          - 39 -
either CROs or TPMs in relation to manipulations or inappropriate construction
processes.

0.8 Outcomes

     0.8.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The total length of National Roads in the whole of Indonesia in 2009 was 38,569.8 km
with 7,785.5 km in the seven provinces where SRIP was involved. Although only
245Kms or 0.64% of the national total and only 3.15% of the seven provinces total were
improved either by betterment, capacity expansion or completely new road this is still
considered a significant outcome which will contribute significantly to the ongoing
upgrading of the national network.

      0.8.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives (PDO)
Achievement of the project development objectives was undoubtedly higher than
significant even with an overall achievement description of only satisfactory. Many of the
project roads were suffering from a lack of maintenance by the time construction works
started and the improvements, in many cases not only increased the vehicle carrying
capacity, but gave an excellent base from which routine maintenance works could
effectively be continued.

     0.8.3    Efficiency
The overall EIRR from post-project evaluations as calculated is 89% with a net present
value of US$ 729 million. This compares well with an average EIRR at appraisal of 41%.

      0.8.4     Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects
The majority of critical risks assessed during project preparation did not materialize to
the extent anticipated apart from delays with procurement which can largely be attributed
to the rigorous procurement procedures introduced by the Bank. A number of these new
requirements were opposed by DGH during project preparation, such as procurement
agents and advisory services, but were included at the Bank’s insistence. Both resulted in
many delays and following agreement with the Bank their use has now been reduced in
scope for future projects and neither Procurement Agents nor PAS were included in
WINRIP. It is understood however that there are still many problems with procurement
on WINRIP and obviously the whole system of procurement still needs a thorough
overhaul.

     0.8.5       Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
      Rating :       Satisfactory
The project was carried out diligently, albeit with many delays, most of which resulted
from the rigorous enforcement of procurement standards which included differences of
interpretation between the bid committees and central DGH. A number of delays can be
attributed to contractor cash flow problems resulting from the lack of timely allocation of
DIPA and some minor delays resulted once construction had started from problems with
land acquisition.

                                          - 40 -
0.9 Rationale for Rating of Risk to Development Outcome
      Rating :     Significant
The development outcome for SRIP is measured primarily in terms of improved access
between, round and, to a lesser extent, in major urban centres. These improvements give
a good base for continued routine maintenance but since no funds have been allocated for
continued maintenance it is uncertain what the long term risk to development will be with
the overall situation becoming worse if the maintenance is not carried out.

0.10 Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

     0.10.1 Bank
      Rating :     Highly Satisfactory to Unsatisfactory
Bank performance overall has been rated from highly satisfactoryto unsatisfactory. Bank
co-operation with and assistance to PMU during implementation for example was
excellent throughout the project and rated highly satisfactory but was considered
unsatisfactory for a number of reasons as follows:
      a) Bank was not sufficiently prepared for the project to start even though almost all
         packages were ready for construction during loan negotiations .
      b) Bank’s insistence on inappropriate and unnecessarily stringent procurement
         procedures leading to many delays
      c) During loan negotiations it was highlighted to the Bank that MoF would sign
         the loan when a NOL was issued for CTC and CSC. The Bank however strongly
         pushed for the loan to be signed without a NOL for supporting services and the
         loan was signed during September 2007 becoming effective in November 2007.
         The required NOLs however had not yet been issued and there were no
         supervision teams for the Group 1 packages. Subsequently, as a result of
         reselections, CTC was delayed for one year and PAS was delayed 18 months
         with the effect that Group 2 and 3 civil works were seriously delayed.

     0.10.2 Borrower
     (a)      Government Performance

         Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory
Allocation of budget initially was sufficient to cover all disbursement requirements
but during implementation the overall budget became insufficient and a number of
activities had to be cancelled as a result of changes in exchange rates and delays in
procurement, although this cannot be attributed directly to government.

     (b)         Implementing Agency Performance

         Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory
DGH performance was satisfactory with the new organizational structure, mainly
relating to decentralization, now sufficiently established to ensure relatively smooth

                                          - 41 -
running of the sub-projects. The main shortcoming however was the failure to
implement the required technical audits on a regular basis and lack of attention to
arrangements for allocation of DIPA, which entailed rather too many late payments to
Contractors.
PMU performance was very satisfactory being pro-active with all arrangements
necessary to comply with Bank regulations, in spite of a number of these regulations
requiring re-interpretation during the course of the project.

0.11 Lessons Learned

a)     Project Design
       1) The main Development Objectives was to improve economic
           competitiveness by improving the capacity and quality of strategic
           national roads on Java and Sumatra, improve road safety and increase the
           efficiency, quality and transparency of works procurement and
           implementation in the Ministry of Public Works. All of these objectives
           were met to some extent but some to a lesser extent than had initially been
           proposed mainly as a result of insufficient funds to cover changes in the
           Rp/US$ exchange rate and unprecedented increases in fuel costs during
           the early stages of the project in spite of cancellation of some sections of
           the project.
       2) KPPN/MoF can only legally approve disbursement recording (SP2D for
           APBN and SP3 for loan)but ) within the current fiscal year and
           disbursement normally takes some three months following approval.
           Consequently the end of the loan period should be not later than the end
           of September in any particular year since any payment approved
           afterwards will be considered as ineligible.

b)     Budgeting
       3) Lack of budget severely limits a contractor’s ability to perform
          effectively. In many cases legitimate disbursements were withheld from
          contractors because of non-availability of DIPA funds. DIPA is based on a
          disbursement plan and includes both Loan and National funding.
          Difficulties arise if, at the end of each fiscal year any portion is unused,
          then it is effectively lost and must be re-budgeted for the following year
          with consequent delays in disbursement.
       4) Insufficient loan funds resulted in all Group 4 and Group 5 sub-
          components being cancelled. Loan funds cannot be added and cost
          increases resulting from the late start for Groups 2 and 3, mainly as a
          result of failure to mobilize PAS but also large increases in unit prices, led
          to the cancelation of Groups 4 and 5.

c)     Planning & Programming
       5) Technical Direction Teams were used as supervision engineers on the
           Group 1 packages because of the delayed appointment of the CSC teams,
           arising as a result of the loan being signed when the project was not ready

                                         - 42 -
         to start. This expedient was preferential to having no supervision at all and
         was effective in getting the construction works started. Unfortunately the
         teams appointed in most cases were inexperienced in supervision and
         performed rather badly. Project planning should take this into account for
         the future and the loan should not be signed until the project is really
         ready to start and the supervision teams in place prior to construction
         works starting.

d)   Road Design
     6) Roughness measurements were not taken before designs but taken from
         the IRMS database and were not required to be measured after
         construction. Since roughness measurements are a key contributory factor
         to Vehicle Operating Costs their measurement before and after
         construction should be mandatory for any economic analysis.
     7) The designs were not thoroughly prepared and reviewed prior to going to
         tender and had not been monitored by mission directors during
         preparation. Final reviews were required to be done under a Project
         Preparation Technical Assistance (PPTA) contract but the consultant
         appointed was demobilized before all designs had been checked.
     8) Insufficient attention was given to road safety requirements resulting in
         many problems being uncovered during the road safety audits. Road
         safety audits should be compulsory at design stage for all packages when
         in fact only one road safety audit was initially included as a pilot study
         only.
     9) On one package the original design required many variations in pavement
         width with many alternating sections between two and four lane. This was
         not followed in practice with the roadway width being evened out over the
         full length of the two lane section with a wider shoulder where land take
         allowed. This however should have been noticed during design.
     10) Liaison with outside agencies related to road design such as the Railway
         Authority is particularly important. On two separate packages, designs
         had to be changed after construction had started because of Railway
         Authority regulations, resulting in increased cost and time extensions
         being required. More attention should be given to the requirements of
         agencies other than DGH during design.

e)   Procurement
     11) The effectiveness of Procurement Agents and Project Advisory Services
         should be reconsidered as in both cases these components led to
         significant delays and were not considered particularly effective.
     12) Pre-bid meetings are not allowed under Bank regulations. This is a wrong
         decision as it does not preclude the opportunity for collaboration among
         bidders, who can arrange collaboration at other times if they so decide.
         Pre-bid meetings are an excellent idea as they are they are a perfect venue
         for important issues such as bid procedures to be explained in detail and
         guidance can be given with difficulties in the General Conditions of

                                      - 43 -
           Contract or peculiarities in the design. It is strongly recommended that
           Pre-bid meetings be reintroduced for future projects.
     13)   The lack of pre-bid meetings led to one of the biggest problems in the
           whole of the SRIP project as most contractors were unaware of the new
           requirement to include cost factors with their bids. Previously, cost factors
           for escalation had been supplied by DGH in the bid documents and this is
           considered more effective. The requirement for the bidder to supply these
           factors under the new bidding procedures could have been stressed at a
           pre-bid meeting.
     14)   The difference between post bidding and rectification of an omission
           should be clarified. Bidders who did not supply escalation cost factor did
           so later in a contract addendum with the approval of the Bank. BPKP
           however initially would not accept this as it was considered post bidding.
           This led to escalation payments not being approved and delays in
           certifying FHO status with subsequent significant increases in the required
           maintenance periods at the contractor’s cost.
     15)   A clear definition of the words “responsive bidder” and “complete” as in
           complete bid proposal document is required. Problems were experienced
           by bidders with the exact requirements for general experience and price
           adjustment factors.
     16)   The procurement of one package failed because of different interpretations
           of the word “similar” between Bid Committee and central DGH. Words
           capable of different interpretations by different parties should not be used
           in contract documentation or World Bank guidelines without precise
           definitions.
     17)   The use of the expression “must demonstrate” in relation to both
           personnel and financial resources in the Bidding Documents proved
           troublesome with interpretation among the bid committees. It is suggested
           that the conditions would be better expressed as minimum requirements.
     18)   In cases where data was missing in bids such as an income statement or
           contractor experience, bids were initially rejected by the bid committee
           and the data not allowed to be provided later as it might be construed as
           post bidding. This situation was referred to the Bank for clarification who
           decreed that it was missing data only and the bids allowed to stand. This
           possibility should be excluded with clear instructions in the bid
           documentation.
     19)   The bidding setup is heavily geared towards the lowest bid price winning
           the bid, irrespective of the bidder’s track record. MoF/DGH should have
           the ability to preclude certain bidders with a record of default, irrespective
           of Bank regulations.

f)   Audits
     20) It is a legal obligation in Indonesia that Financial (BPKP) and Technical
         (IG) audits be carried out on all projects. A requirement for risk based
         Financial and Technical Audits is also included in the loan agreement but



                                         - 44 -
         the results from these audits are frequently late. The clause should include
         a reference to the timely execution of all audits.

g)   Construction Management
     21) The appointment of each CSC Team Leader as the “Engineer” was not
         successful as the Satker/PPK, directly appointed by DGH, retained
         complete control over each sub-project with the role of the “Engineer”
         being restricted to largely administrative matters such as control of the
         supervision teams but with only minor input on major items. The concept
         of the Supervision Consultant fulfilling the role of the “Engineer”, as
         defined in FIDIC, is sound but the implementation of such a system
         requires the appointment of suitably experienced personnel who are
         capable of maintaining their authority.

h)   Contract Documentation
     22) Clause 8.6 in the GCC is considered too loose with statements such as “If
         actual progress is too slow to complete within the Time for Completion,
         the Engineer may instruct the Contractor to submit a revised programme
         ….”. The previous Bin aMarga method of stipulating that the degree of
         lack of progress determined what action had to be taken was much more
         effective.
     23) Contract Provisional Sums are principally intended to cover
         contingencies such as additional works requirements which only become
         obvious once work has started. Provisional Sums are therefore limited to
         only 5% of the Engineers Estimate. Any remaining PS was also used to
         cover price adjustment while the calculations were being audited which
         helped to eliminate disbursement delays although in many cases was
         insufficient to cover the price adjustment. It is therefore recommended
         that the PS be increased to say at least 10% of the EE or to the full 15%
         which does not require a NOL.
     24) In Clause 13.8 of GCC “Adjustments for Changes in Cost” each bidder is
         required to complete a table of adjustment data. In many bids this table
         was not submitted. This problem could either be overcome by holding pre-
         bid meetings or alternatively by supplying the table as was done with the
         previous BinaMarga documentation. It should be clarified that this
         requirement necessitates a complete breakdown of all unit costs to be
         supplied with the bid.

i)   Bank Imposed Temporary Suspensions
     25) One contractor was involved in a temporary suspension imposed by the
         Bank. The circumstances surrounding this suspension were somewhat
         unsatisfactory and led to a lot of confusion with DGH, the contractor and
         supervision staff. The whole process of a declaration of such a suspension
         requires improvement so that each party is aware of both the current
         situation and consequences of such an imposition.



                                      - 45 -
     26) The declaration of the temporary suspension took far too long between the
         incident leading to the suspension and the actual declaration. (First
         indication of misdemeanor notified to contractor October 2007 to
         declaration of suspension during June 2012). A more prompt declaration
         would have prevented the contractor from bidding for subsequent
         packages.

j)   Anti-Corruption Action Plan
     27) The Community Representative Observers attended all Group 2 and
         Group 3 bid openings and did not detect any collusion and their presence
         did ensure transparency in bid openings. This practice should be
         continued.
     28) ACAP in general was quite successful on SRIP with the Complaints
         Handling System (CHS) being heavily used. Over 50 complaints were
         received and all were resolved satisfactorily. The system can be continued
         on any future project with no immediate requirement for modification.
     29) The use of Third Party Monitors (TPM) however were not quite so
         successful on SRIP. TPMs were eventually appointed for seven (7) of the
         20 packages but reports were only received from four (4) of these seven
         packages. The system of appointments from local universities rather than
         NGOs was relatively successful but the many difficulties related to this
         form of appointment and apparent lack of interest from many of the
         universities were experienced and means that other means of appointment
         should be looked into.
     30) Recruitment process from invitation of interest until the issuance of the
         TPM Decree was too long. In many cases TPMs had not been appointed
         by the time sub-project implementation had already started. The
         appointment process should therefore be started quicker.
     31) The fact that no incentive is given for the TPM Observers should be
         reconsidered although on the other hand providing incentives goes against
         the idea of the independent volunteer work of TPM to monitor
         construction process. This is a difficult problem to solve.
     32) The process of invoice verification for TPM expenses payments is too
         long, and it is suggested that invoices are prepared and submitted prior to
         report submission.

k)   Environmental and Social Aspects
     33) World Bank regulations require compensation to be paid to all project
         affected people. Indonesian government regulations however only allow
         compensation to be paid to legitimate landowners and not for illegal
         owners and/or occupiers. The difference in procurement policies is
         already accommodated in the Land Acquisition Policy Framework for
         SRIP and has been disseminated to the local authorities for projects at
         local level. Changes in personnel in the project and regional authorities
         however often results in differences in understanding and therefore there



                                      - 46 -
         is a need for dissemination on a regular basis with the provision of an
         enforceable policy framework which is financially accountable.
     34) Problems were experienced on a few packages with access to areas which
         had previously been acquired but because of the long time between the
         removal of the original tenants and the start of construction new squatters
         had moved in. The alertness of local government to this type of situation
         is therefore required and jointly cooperate with the project to maintain or
         secure the land already acquired in order to avoid paying compensation.
     35) Training in environmental management and monitoring for the relevant
         parties such as the PPK, Contractors, and Field Supervisors should be held
         at the beginning of all project activities and refresher courses presented
         regularly because of turnover in PPK and supervisory staff during
         construction. Environmental experts should also be recruited and form a
         continuous part of the construction supervision team on each package.
     36) The need for assistance should be available from consultants during the
         land acquisition process to avoid lack of attention to detail during the
         process, so that there are no constraints during construction or a
         requirement to conduct further LARAP studies after the construction had
         commenced. Specialized personnel who have expertise in environmental
         and social responsibilities are essential to monitor the execution of
         construction work.

l)   Project Financing
     37) The initial threshold for direct payment of $100,000 was too high for the
         consultant’s invoice. This limit was later removed during the course of the
         project but no such limit or something more realistic should be imposed
         on future projects.

m)   Technical Assistance and Implementation Support
     38) Two of the Technical Assistance components were cancelled. Although
         initially considered among the key objectives the project did not suffer
         unduly because of the cancellation. PBCC was taken up with two locally
         funded projects and also under an AusAID funded project and both have
         reported only limited success. IRSMS-1 was also cancelled because
         DGLT considered it was duplicating work already done.

n)   Training
     39) Training courses were held on a number of topics throughout the course of
         the project and all proved successful. This aspect of the project should be
         extended for future projects.

o)   Project Management Manual
     40) In spite of updating the PMM during the project further updates are still
         required to correlate with BinaMarga regulations. The PMM requires to be
         continually updated in line with any changes or updates to government
         regulations and any future changes in the contract documentation.

                                      - 47 -
p)   Assistance to PMU
     41) An integral part of the project was the assistance to PMU provided by
         CTC. The original ToR for CTC did not include the requirement for a full
         economic analysis to be done at the end of the project and this
         requirement only became obvious during conversations with the WB Team
         Leader during one of the Bank missions. Although a local transport
         economist was assigned to CTC for a few months near the beginning of
         the project the real requirement was an experienced Transport Economist
         familiar with HDM-4 near the end of the project. If the World Bank are
         going to require a full economic analysis near the end of future projects
         then a Senior Transport Economist will be required. There are very few
         Indonesian Economists familiar with HDM4.
     42) The role of CTC within the project should have been clearer. Both CSC
         consultants and construction supervision personnel always considered that
         CTC held the higher authority with respect to construction decisions when
         in fact the CTC responsibility was towards PMU. This resulted from the
         old system within BinaMarga whereby CTC was in fact the main
         supervision consultant. A change of name from CTC to something
         different would probably solve the problem.

q)   Level of Service of the World Bank
     43) World Bank focused on detailed compliance with procedures, especially
         for procurement, contract amendment and environmental and social
         considerations, and was not so focused on shortcomings which affected
         achievement of Project objectives, such as works quality and institutional
         issues.




                                     - 48 -
Executive Summary of the Indonesia National Traffic Police Corps Final Report

The Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project (SRIP), which is supported by a loan from the
World Bank, is being implemented by the Indonesian Ministry of Public Works.

The SRIP includes a Road Sector Institutional Development component consisting of:
    IRSMS-1 for developing an integrated road safety strategy and long-term plan;
      and
    IRSMS-2 for developing a pilot integrated road accident database/analysis
      system, and establishing self-sustaining personnel development procedures for
      Indonesian National Traffic Police Corps (INTPC).

The Integrated Road Safety Management System (IRSMS) includes development of an
integrated road accident database and analysis system and establishment of sustainable
personnel development procedures for INTPC.

The key achievements of the IRSMS and its implementation are as follows:

Figure 1: Implementation of IRSMS
    Since 1st July 2011, accident data collection, coding, entry and processing in the
       IRSMS-2 server has been extended from the pilot areas to the whole of Indonesia
       (in total, 445 Polres in 31 Polda);
    IRSMS usage monitoring tools have been developed and old data were migrated
       from the previous system;
    Automated reports for several road safety and accident monitoring activities were
       developed in the analysis section of IRSMS including daily, weekly and monthly
       reports;
    Detailed analysis functionality was implemented like stick diagrams, periodically
       reports and cross tabulation;
    Presentations of the Accident Information System (AIS) and training in the use of
       the new system and the Accident Record Form have been provided to some 900
       police officers from the 31 Poldas as well as from stakeholders;
    Tablet devices have been introduces for data collection at the accident scene in
       two Poldas;
    An IRSMS-2 website was established;
    Procurement of IT and law enforcement equipment was facilitated;
    A road safety campaign was designed and developed;
    Capacity building by:
        developing manuals on accident data collection and accident data analysis
            including training courses;
        developing Standard Operating Procedures for various enforcement options;
        conducting workshops to validate SOPs and to pilot test the development of
            local enforcement plans based on accident data;



                                         - 49 -
      Technical reports about equipment and further developments in accident
       investigation have been provided.

The process of accident data collection was reengineered to ensure that the collected
information is compatible with international standards for comparability reasons.

Since the original Terms of Reference (TOR) for the project were prepared, development
in many fields has taken place, for example further developments of the existing AIS in
the Police and the Traffic Violation Database and institutional development and
restructuring in the INTPC and INP to comply with the new Law 22 of 2009 on road
traffic and transport, which came into force by mid-2009. Therefore, it was agreed during
contract negotiations that there was a need to revise the Project Work Plan, personnel
schedule, scope of works and tasks. For example, the restructuring of the Indonesian
National Police (INP) to comply with Law 22 of 2009 has made redundant the need to
produce an Institutional Development and Capacity Building Master Plan, as profound
organizational changes to reflect the new road traffic and transport law took place in 2009
and 2010. Generally, institutional development, training and capacity building have
therefore been focused on the development of the IRSMS, with particular attention to
addressing the technical and some of the institutional causes for under-reporting.

IRSMS is designed to provide valid, reliable and verified accident data. Reliable and
accurate road accident data make it possible to identify specific roads, vehicles and road
users which need to be targeted with road safety interventions.

At present all user manuals are published in both Indonesian and English versions and
cover user, administrators, equipment and data analysis.

The Accident Analysis Manual and the Data Collection Manual in English and Bahasa
Indonesia are published both as printed version and a PDF-version that can be
downloaded from the IRSMS main menu.

Handing over of the database server to administrators from Korlantas was done in
November 2013.

While each training intervention was intended to focus on training-of-trainers only, it was
felt very important and a lesson for future training that a faster manner to implement the
pilot projects on time is to train operators directly as well as the trainers who have a
longer term perspective. The training was therefore expanded from 20 trainees in Terms
of Reference to 750 participants.

Assistance to the procurement process was given by writing technical specifications,
preparing bidding documents and assisting in bid evaluations and contract preparation.

The IRSMS Expansion up to April 2014 was designed to strengthen the institutional
environment under which road safety and traffic policing actions are planned, undertaken
and evaluated. Overall, the Expansion was designed to improve the capacity of

                                          - 50 -
Indonesian agencies – and, in particular, the Indonesian National Traffic Police Corps.
The objective of the IRSMS-2 Expansion was to improve and optimise the project in
order to further contribute to improvement of road safety in support to the Indonesian
Road Safety Master Plan (RUNK/RencanaUmumNasionalKeselamatan) based on the UN
Decade of Action for Road Safety.

The IRSMS is functioning well and between 200 and 300 accidents are reported to the
system daily. It is concern that a unit for managing the system has not yet been
established in Korlantas. This makes the system vulnerable.

Tablets were introduced in two Poldas, and this activity should be continued in all
remaining Poldas in Indonesia.




                                        - 51 -
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                   - 52 -
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. The World Bank, Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project: Project Appraisal
       Document (No. 36122-ID), June 2, 2006.
   2. The World Bank, Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project: Loan Agreement (No.
       4834-IND), September 13, 2007
   3. The World Bank, Aide-memoires of the Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project
       from 2008 to 2014.
   4. The World Bank, Project Status Report and Implementation Status and Results
       Reports for the Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project from 2008 to 2013.
   5. The World Bank, Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2): Summary
       Assessment Sheet, March 29, 2010.
   6. The World Bank, Strategic Road Infrastructure Project, Action Plan for QALP-2
       Final Report Recommendations, May 18, 2010.
   7. The World Bank, Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project: Restructuring Paper,
       March 15, 2011.
   8. The World Bank, Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project: Restructuring Paper,
       May 16, 2013.
   9. Indonesia National Traffic Police Corps, Final Report: Integrated Road Safety
       Management System (IRSMS-2), May 2014
   10. Ministry of Public Works, Directorate General of Highways, Borrower’s Project
       Completion Report for Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project, May 2014
   11. Ministry of Public Works, Directorate General of Highways, Final Report onPost-
       Construction Economic Evaluation for Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project,
       May 2014




                                        - 53 -
Annex 10. Maps




                 - 54 -
- 55 -
- 56 -
- 57 -
