 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14825

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/10/2015

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P079906                                                    Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Strategic Roads              Project Costs (US$M):                      286.8                226.2
                         Infrastructure Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       208                  174
      Sector Board:        Transport                   Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                                07/06/2006
                                                                 Closing Date:             12/31/2011         07/01/2014
          Sector(s):       Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (60%); Urban Transport (32%); Central
                           government administration (8%)
          Theme(s):        Infrastructure services for private sector development (33%); Decentralization (17%);
                           Administrative and civil service reform (17%); Trade facilitation and market access (17%);
                           Injuries and non-communicable diseases (16%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Fang Xu                    George T. K. Pitman     Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Project Appraisal Report (page 5) and the Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5) state that the project
development objectives are:
     “to improve economic competitiveness by improving the capacity and quality of strategic national roads on the
     Borrower's islands of Java and Sumatra , improving road safety and increasing the efficiency , quality and
     transparency of works procurement and implementation in Indonesia’s Ministry of Public Works .”

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 1. Improvements to Strategic National Roads (Estimated cost: US$ 262.1 million; Actual cost: US$208.08 million ).
The component consisted of :
  Improvement of about 240 kilometers of urban and inter-urban roads;
  New construction of about 55 kilometers of urban and inter-urban roads;
  New construction of a new bridge of about 50 meters on an inter-urban road; and
  Implementation of a Performance-Based Contract pilot program on about 110 kilometers of the north Java
     corridor.

2. Implementation Support (estimated cost: US$ 20.1 million; actual cost: US$12.6 million). This component
consisted of various implementation support to the Ministry of Public Work and the Project Management Unit
including implementation of civil works, project procurement activities, financial audits and the Anti-Corruption Action
Plan (ACAP).

3. Road Sector Institutional Development (estimated cost: US$ 4.1 million; actual cost: US$4.0 million). This
component consisted of:
   Developing an integrated road safety strategy and long-term plan including an institutional framework;
   A pilot integrated road accident database/analysis system;
   Establishing self-sustaining personnel development procedures for traffic police; and,
   Training of project staff in the application of the Project Management Manual.



 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project cost: Total project cost was US$226.2 million or 79.7% of the estimated cost of US$286.8 million.
At restructuring in May 2010 some civil works packages and the Performance Based Contract pilot program were
dropped because of sharp construction cost increase between January 2005 and December 2010 and the lack of
interest from the borrower on these activities. In addition, costs were saved by dropping in May 2013 the technical
assistance related to Institutional Development for Road Safety.

Financing: The Bank committed a Loan of US$208.0 million to the project of which US$174.1 million was disbursed
and US$33.8 million was cancelled.

Borrower contribution : The borrower contributed US$52.1 million as against the appraisal estimate of US$79.0
million. The actual proportion of the borrower's contribution to the total project cost was 23% as against the 27%
planned.

Dates: The closing date of the project was extended by 2.5 years, and the actual closing date was June 30, 2014. The
project extensions were included in three second-level restructurings.
   The first restructuring in May 2010 extended the closing date to June 30, 2013, reduced the scope of civil works
     and reallocated loan proceeds following the adjustment of the project activities. Performance indicators and
     target values were modified.
   The second restructuring in May 2013 extended the closing date to December 31, 2013; dropped the technical
     assistance related to Institutional Development for Road Safety; and, cancelled US$ 15.0 million of the loan a a
     result of exchange rate fluctuations.
   The third restructuring in December 2013 extended the closing date to June 30, 2014; cleared the payments for
     completed work packages, and allowed time to complete the remaining work package for Bandar Lampung
     Bypass A and an Audit of the escalation payments.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial
The project objectives were relevant to the mission of Indonesia’s Ministry of Public Works (MPW). At the time of the
project preparation, the traffic congestion along main corridors had negatively affected the economic and social
activities, expanding the road network capacity, ensuring sufficient funds for road maintenance, improving the road
sector management and governance were all priorities of the MPW. One of the missions of the MPW was to realize a
sustainable national road network with sufficient mobility, accessibility and safety, to serve national activity centers,
regional and national strategic zone, with which the project development objectives were consistent.

The project development objectives were relevant to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia
(2004-2006) that focused on assisting Indonesia to overcome the low rate of investment and to improve the public
service environment, two major impediments to reducing poverty. Specifically, project objectives were consistent with
the strategy in their focus on strengthening the transport institution and improving the transport network.
Development objectives remain relevant to the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS 2013-2015),which supports
the Pro-Growth objective, specifically in terms of strengthening the national road network, and the Cross- Cutting
Engagements objective, especially in terms of governance and anti-corruption.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial
The project had development objectives aimed at making improvement in four areas: economic competitiveness,
strategic national roads, road safety, and institutional strengthening of the MPW. While project design did not
specifically include activities aimed at improving economic competitiveness, project activities activities were relevant
because their achievement would contribute to a result chain that could potentially improve the economic
competitiveness. The project activities included investment in strategic national roads and technical assistance
activities such as anti-corruption plan, the Performance based Contract Pilot and training traffic police, would
contribute to the achievement of objectives of improving strategic national roads and institutional strengthening. The
project originally had limited activities to support the road safety improvement. During implementation, the Bank
improved aspects of the project design including the realignment of sub-components and performance indicators
related to project road safety activities that were highly relevant to the priorities of the Government.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
    “To improve economic competitiveness by improving the capacity and quality of strategic national roads on the
Borrower's islands of Java and Sumatra , improving road safety and increasing the efficiency , quality and
transparency of works procurement and implementation in Indonesia’s Ministry of Public Works .”

While the overarching objective of “improving economic competitiveness” could not be directly achieved through the
project, the road sector improvements would contribute to the improvement of economic competitiveness through the
three sub-objectives as discussed below.

(a) Improving capacity and quality of strategic national roads on the Borrower 's islands of Java and Sumatra :
Substantial.
Outputs:
    228 km of strategic road new construction, rehabilitation, and improvement, as against the target of about
     245.8km. The shortfall was because termination of one contract as a result of the non-performance of a
     contractor.
    52 meters of bridges were improved as against the original target of 50 meters.
    The Performance Based Contract pilot was dropped.
    Eight technical audits carried out as against the target 19 packages.
Outcomes:
     While traffic volume increased , travel time on the project roads was reduced . The Annual Average Daily Traffic
     on project roads increased by 21.5% as against the target 20%; Travel speed on the improved road increased by
     32% as a result of better road condition.
    The share of roads in good and fair condition increased . At project closing, the roads in good and fair condition
     as a share of total classified roads was 95.9 percent, a 2.5 percentage point increase from the baseline. The new
     construction of 37 km of strategic roads and the improvement of 106 km strategic roads to good or fair condition
     contributed to this increase (about 1.6 percentage points’ increase). The achievement at project closing was short
     of the target of 96.8 percent mainly because the total national roads in project provinces increased more than
     anticipated.
(b) Improving road safety : Modest
Outputs:
    72% of the targeted intersections were improved; The ICR (page 12) commented that the target should have
     been lowered when some of the intended intersections were dropped from the project at the first project
     restructuring.
    Road Safety Audits (RSA) were conducted for all 19 work packages and immediate physical improvements were
     made at site following the audit report. This was subsequently verified by the project team.
    The Integrated Road Safety Management System (IRSMS – 1) under the Ministry of Transportation was dropped.
    Development of an integrated road safety strategy and long-term plan, including an institutional framework was
     planned, but there is no evidence to show it was produced.
    The Integrated Road Safety Management Systems (IRSMS – 2) under the National Traffic Police was completed
     with expanded activities. However, by project closing only two provinces were fully equipped with the required
     digital recording devices. The Task Team subsequently stated the new information obtained from the counterpart
     shows sustained and expanded use of the IRSMS-2 as (a) all 34 provinces now use IRSMS to collect and report
     accident data with a combination of manual and automatic tools, (b) eight provinces (other than the two pilot
     provinces) have been fully equipped with IRSMS’s devices since June 2014 using national budget; and since
     June 2015, the National Traffic Police have started to equip the other 24 provinces (c) the National Traffic
     Management Center under Indonesia Traffic Police still maintains the IRSMS server, and (d) IRSMS improves
     quality of accident data for other sectors’ use.

Outcomes:
It was expected that the project road safety activities would improve the collecting, reporting and monitoring of
accidents and the road sites improvement following the Road Safety Audits would lead to improved road safety,
however, evidences on the achievement of project objective "improving road safety" were absent . At appraisal the
road safety activities were supposed, inter alia, to "ii) a pilot integrated road accident database/analysis system." The
ICR reports on the database and monitoring but outcomes from analysis are not provided. The achievement of this
specific sub-objective was rated as modest

(c) Increasing the efficiency , quality and transparency of works procurement and implementation in Indonesia’s
Ministry of Public Works : Modest
Ouputs:
    The Third Party Monitors were appointed for seven of the 20 packages but reports were only received from four
     packages.
    A number of training courses were held on Anti-Corruption Action Plans, procurement, financial monitoring,
     environmental monitoring, road safety audits, and the project management manual.
    Semi e-procurement system for National Competitive Bidding packages was piloted and the web-based project
     monitoring system (SistemPermantauanProyek-SiPP) was implemented. The task team has subsequently
     informed IEG that a full e-procurement system is currently being used in the ongoing Western Indonesia Road
     Improvement Project with expanded application to International Competitive Bid contracts and the SiPP remains
     in use as well.
Outcomes:

    Efficiency: the procurement in the Ministry of Public Works was not more efficient because the measures
     intended to strengthen the transparency and anti-corruptions increased the complexity of the procurement
     process and caused delays. No evidence was provided on the efficiency improvements as a result of SiPP
     implementation .
    Quality: 100% of contracts complied with specification. Nevertheless, the management and implementation of
     the civil work contracts encountered various quality issues throughout the process, including the limited role of
     the independent Engineer, the quality of road design, the management of contract procurement and unforeseen
     cost escalation. All these shortcomings indicate that the quality of works procurement and implementation in the
     MPW needs further improvement.
    Transparency: The Anti-Corruption Action Plan was not fully operational during the initial years of project
     implementation, but there was satisfactory compliance overall with the Anti-Corruption Action Plan once all its
     features were operational. Fifty complaints were received through the Complaints Handling System and all were
     resolved satisfactorily (ICR page 46)


5. Efficiency:

Economic and Financial Efficiency
  At appraisal the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM) was used for the economic analysis of
    the project. Economic analyses were undertaken for: (a) each Sub-project; (b) for the proposed three Work
    Programs (WPs); and (c) for the Project as a whole. The costs were the estimated investment and maintenance
    cost and the benefits were reduced vehicle operation costs, travel-time savings for road users and reductions in
    accidents. The overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was estimated as 41 percent.
  At project closing, the same HDM methodology was used for the project economic analysis. The cost information
    was updated to reflect the actual investment cost. The total cost for the reduced scope of work increased by
    12.7%. The overall EIRR for the post-construction economic evaluation was 89%. The higher EIRR could be
    explained by the higher benefits from the reduced travel time and cost, less congestion and fewer road accidents.

Institutional and Organizational Efficiency :
   As discussed in the efficacy section, the project encountered various issues during its implementation process
      indicating there were institutional and organizational inefficiency. Such inefficiency contributed to the
      implementation delays and the increased project costs.

The overall efficiency of the project is assessed as Substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      41%                                     86.7%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      89%                                     88.9%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
 6. Outcome:
   The project development objectives were relevant to the country priorities and the relevance of design was
substantial. One of the three objectives was substantially achieved, whilst two are rated as modestly achieved
because of lack of evidence. Based on the impact of the physical achievements project efficiency is rated substantial.
Since there were significant shortcomings in achieving its development objectives, the overall outcome is assessed as
being moderately unsatisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Maintenance for the road network : The ICR (Page 10) reported that the project roads would receive the national
      budget for the annual routine maintenance and periodic maintenance in accordance with the standard procedure
      of the Director General of Highways (DGH). However, the 2012 Bank Public Expenditure Review found that the
      unit cost of road maintenance was high because of the fragmentation of maintenance contracts and reliance on
      force account. This issue together with the slight decline of DGH's overall budget could pose challenges to the
      road network maintenance.
     Procurement: The Ministry of Public Works still faces challenges to improve procurement efficiency. A 2013 Bank
      study on the procurement of infrastructure in Indonesia showed that Bank procurement moves 33% faster than
      similar government-funded contracts (from advertisement to bidding). However, the study also found that main-
      streaming of more efficient procurement practices are needed to achieve broader progress in that area. In
      addition, it seems that the issues experienced by this project on the Third Party Audits and the limited role of E
      ngineer are yet to be resolved, which also adds uncertainty on the sustainability of the development outcome.


     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project built the lessons learned into its design. At the time of project preparation, there were serious
Institutional Integrity (INT) investigations in the sector. Hence, strong emphasis was placed on addressing
corruption through the development of an extensive Anti-Corruption Action Plan and provision of targeted
implementation support to the Ministry of Public Works so as to ensure the construction quality and to minimize
procurement related risks. However, the appraisal team misread borrower ownership and project design included
some specific activities which did not generate enough interest from the borrower and had to be dropped during
the implementation. These activities included the provision of the Procurement Advisory Service, the Integrated
Road Safety Management Systems (IRSMS) to be implemented by the Ministry of Transport), and the
Performance Based Contract pilot. The M&E framework was not designed in a way that the achievement of the
development objectives could be accurately measured.

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project had four Task Team Leaders throughout the project cycle, but supervision missions were carried
out regularly. At the early stage of project implementation, the team supported the Director General of Highways
to develop the first six packages and provided training to the procurement in the absence of the Procurement
Adviser. The Bank’s Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio conducted in March 2010, however concluded that
the Bank supervision should pay more attention to the implementation of component 2 and 3, in addition to
addressing shortcomings in the project design and implementation that posed the highest risk to achieving the
development objectives. The project team used the restructuring to improve the project design, but missed
opportunity to refine the project’s objective statement by removing improvement to economic competitiveness
which was not attributable to the project.



     Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Government refers to the Ministry of Finance, National Development Planning Agency and the Project Steering
Committee comprised of representatives from various ministries and provinces which guided and oversaw the
development of road infrastructure and road traffic and transport including the development and implementation of
this specific project. The National Development Planning Agency coordinated actions to be taken by each ministry
and agencies. The Ministry of Finance effectively led the project disbursement, loan and legal agreement issues,
with the majority of counterpart funding adequately allocated throughout the project. The Members of the project
steering committee also participated actively during design and implementation.

The Government delayed the loan agreement signing after the project was approved by the Board on July 6,
2006, one reason being that the Government wanted the disbursement to start soon after the signing and
effectiveness to avoid commitment fees. There was a lack of Government ownership on specific project
components including the provision of the Procurement Advisory Service, a Road Safety sub-component
(IRSMS-1), and the Performance Based Contract pilot, leading to the delayed implementation and finally dropping
of these activities.


   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
     The Ministry of Public Works was the executing agency through its Directorate General of Highways (DGH).
The Directorate of Planning (DOP), within the DGH, was the implementing agency responsible for the day-to-day
activities except the project component 3(a) (Supporting Indonesia’s overall road safety strategy) which was to be
executed by the National Traffic Police Corps. A Project Management Unit (PMU) was established for managing
all activities of the project.

The project did not progress well in the first three-years before the Core Team Consultants for the project were
hired. Once the Core Team Consultants were on-board in 2009, the performance, as represented by the PMU,
was much stronger. The PMU also was particularly active in maintaining continuous communication with the Bank
in order to ensure efficient implementation progress in the second half of the project.

The Ministry of Transport, through the Directorate General of Land Transport, was responsible for the
implementation of the Integrated Road Safety Management Systems-1 performance, but dropped this activity after
twice selecting of consultants during the three-year period both of whom were unsuccessful. The project team
viewed this as an indication that the Directorate General of Land Transport in Ministry of Transport neither had the
capacity to properly hire the consultant nor had strong ownership of the Integrated Road Safety Management
Systems-1 activity especially when other donors had offered similar activities with easier financing and procedures
(i.e. a grant) after the project started. With the dropping of the Integrated Road Safety Management Systems-1 by
the Ministry it is unclear how road safety information collected by the police will be utilized to make roads safer as
better policing is only part of the solution. In addition, the Ministry support for improved governance was poor
particularly for the mainstreaming of Third Party Audits and the accepting an independent Engineer for contact
administration and quality assurance.

The National Traffic Police Corps was responsible for implementing the road safety activities, albeit with
procurement delays, the National Traffic Police Corps managed to complete the Integrated Road Safety
Management Systems-2 and the system now are being used in all 34 provinces.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
      The project objectives concerned four areas: economic competitiveness improvement, strategic national roads
quality and capacity increase, road safety improvement, and the strengthening of the Ministry of Public Works. The
indicators only covered two areas: strategic national roads quality and capacity increase and the strengthening of the
Ministry of Public Works. The majority of indicators focused on project outputs rather than outcomes, particularly in
regard to assessing improvements to quality and capacity of strategic roads. The M&E framework did not have related
indicators or specific approaches to measure the improvement in economic competitiveness.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Project Management Unit was responsible for the data collection for most indicators. With the support from the
Core Team Consultants, the data collection on output-based indicators was good and consistent. The information was
reported regularly. An indicator of “Road safety audits conducted and recommendations addressed” was added at the
restructuring to measure the achievement of road safety improvement. The data on the Annual Average Daily Traffic
increase and travel time savings were collected only at the end of the project (ICR page 7).

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The output indicators were used for project monitoring. Because some indicators such as the Annual Average Daily
Traffic Increase and the travel time saving were designed to be measured only at the end of the project, the utilization
of M&E for project management during implementation was limited.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
  Environmental: This project was classified as a category “A" project under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental
    Assessment. At project preparation stage, an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESAMF) was
    prepared which served as the Project’s umbrella Environmental Assessment. A two-stage environmental
    screening process was followed to identify and mitigate all project associated adverse impacts: (a) Initial
    screening to determine whether any environmental examination was required; and, (b) second-stage screening to
    determine the extent of further environmental examination. These procedures were proscribed in the bid
    documents for all subprojects. The ICR (page 8) reported that all project activities were in full compliance with all
    environmental assessment requirements.
  Cultural Property: At appraisal, five cemeteries in Karawang, Semarang, Cianjur, Ngawi, and Tegal, were
    identified in areas affected by the project activities, OP4.11 Cultural Heritage was triggered. Screening for cultural
    property issues was carried out as part of the environmental screening process as detailed in the ESAMF. Two
    cemeteries in Semarang and Cianjur were relocated after extensive consultation with the local population. The
    other three cemeteries remained in their current location and were secured from damage. The team informed the
    evaluator that there were a few more similar cases during project implementation, but all the cases were dealt
    with in conformity with Bank’s policy and regulations.
  Social: The project triggered the Bank's Involuntary Resettlement policy, OP/BP 4.12. A Land Acquisition and
    Resettlement Policy Framework (LARAP) was prepared and agreed upon during appraisal to provide overall
    guidance to the project on land acquisition and resettlement and a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action
    Plans were prepared for sub-projects activities. For those land acquisition and resettlement activities conducted
    by local governments before the project was prepared, due diligence investigative reports (tracer studies) were
    prepared to ensure that the resettlement and land acquisition were carried out in a satisfactory matter. All
    together, five subprojects prepared tracer studies and 15 subprojects prepared LARAP documents. The ICR
    (page 9) reported that all the land acquisition and resettlement activities were carried out in a satisfactory matter.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: The project procurement experienced serious delay in selection of key consulting services contracts at
the beginning of the project. During implementation, there were three INT investigations related to this project (ICR,
page 7). The first investigation covered 3 firms and 3 joint-ventures that had falsified bid securities to support their
bids. They were subsequently sanctioned. The second investigation was of a bidder who engaged in several
sanctionable offences and was temporarily suspended; the third due-diligence investigation was INT’s check of the
consultant performing services for the contacts subject the other two investigations. The Procurement Committees
also had different interpretations of bidding rules and these contributed to the delays in implementation of the
remaining work packages. Because of all these issues, the project procurement management was initially rated as
being unsatisfactory (ICR page 9). After the three main consulting services contracts were awarded, the procurement
of works contracts improved, As a result the project procurement was rated subsequently as moderately satisfactory
throughout the project cycle (ICR page 9). No misprocurement was reported by the ICR.

Financial management : During implementation, several overpayments and insufficient monitoring on construction
works and consultancy services were noted (ICR page 9), and these were addressed by the implementing agencies.
The project also experienced many late payments to contractors because of the lack of attention to allocation and
disbursement timing conditions (ICR page 18). The project's audit reports and Interim Financial Reports (IFR) were
submitted on time and with sufficient documentation; all audit reports were supported by unqualified options. No
ineligible expenditure was reported by the ICR.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately              Moderately             Relevance of objectives and design is
                              Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory        rated substantial, as is efficiency.
                                                                            However, the project had significant
                                                                            shortcomings in achieving the project
                                                                            development objectives because out of
                                                                            three sub-objectives, two were
                                                                            modestly achieved and only one was
                                                                            substantially achieved. As such, the
                                                                            project outcome is assessed as being
                                                                            moderately unsatisfactory.
         Risk to Development Significant              Significant
                    Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately              Moderately            There were shortcomings in appraisal
                              Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory        of some institutional aspects of the
                                                                            project and in the design of the M&E
                                                                            system, and quality at entry is rated
                                                                            moderately unsatisfactory. While the
                                                                            quality of supervision is moderately
                                                                            satisfactory, the overall rating depends
                                                                            on the outcome rating when one rating
                                                                            is in the satisfactory range, the other in
                                                                            the unsatisfactory range.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately              Moderately            While the government's performance is
                              Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory        rated moderately satisfactory, there
                                                                            were shortcomings on some
                                                                            institutional aspects of implementing
                                                                            agency performance, and in reporting
                                                                            project outcomes. Quality of
                                                                            Implementing Agency performance is
                                                                            rated moderately unsatisfactory. The
                                                                            overall rating depends on the outcome
                                                                            rating when one rating is in the
                                                                            satisfactory range, the other in the
                                                                            unsatisfactory range.
                Quality of ICR:                       Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Main lessons generated by the ICR are summarized below:

Scattering of subprojects over a wide geographical area complicates supervision and increases oversight costs .
A corridor approach, as used in a follow-on Bank project, allows segments to be grouped and located in sequence,
thereby easing technical supervision and third party monitoring.

Economic analysis should sufficiently capture the full benefit values of road investments . When using the
conventional economic analysis methods which calculate the saving of vehicle operating cost and passengers'
traveling cost on specific project road, the EIRR of new road construction tends to be lower when compared to road
capacity expansion because the cost of new construction is higher, which could lead to the conclusion that capacity
expansion and/or betterment are more effective than new roads development. Other variables e.g., environmental
benefits, the benefits on the surrounding road network in addition to the benefit on the project road, need to be
considered and better estimation on value of time is needed to fully capture the benefit of road investments.

The effectiveness of road safety measures are jeopardized when road safety audits (RSA) are only conducted
during implementation . The RSAs should start at design stage prior to the bidding, so that physical requirements
can be included in the construction contract. Measures such as road safety training and seminars for project
stakeholders should also be implemented to enhance sustainability of the road safety.

Anti-corruption measures that lack alignment with broader Government priorities and systems are difficult to
implement. Anti-corruption strategies that rely on either the addition of multiple layers of review and/or the
bypassing of governmental processes are often unsuccessful. Approaches that address systemic problems in
government systems and enhance transparency are often more successful and sustainable.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provided comprehensive information which present a clear story line of the project. It was also frank about
the shortcomings of the projects both at the design and implementation stage. The ICR also noted that the
sub-objective "improve economic competitiveness" was beyond the scope of this project. The assessment of the
achievement of road safety objective should be based on intermediate outcome/outcome instead of outputs.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
