                                               Documentof
                                             The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                   ReportNo: 38460-ID




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT


                                                  FORA


  PROPOSEDMULTIDONORFUNDFORACEHAND NORTHSUMATRA (MDF) GRANT


                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$ 100MILLION

                                                   TO

                                 THE GOVERNMENTOFINDONESIA

                                                FORTHE

                INFRASTRUCTURERECONSTRUCTIONFINANCING FACILITY



                                            January31,2007




UrbanDevelopment Sector Unit
EastAsia andthePacificRegion



 This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o f
  their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

                           CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                 (EXCHANGERATEEFFECTIVE JULY 26,2006)


                     Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                         IDR 1,000 = US$0.110434
                             US$ 1 = IDR9,055.20

                                  FISCALYEAR

                           January 1    - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADB          Asian Development Bank
BRR          Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias
CQ           Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
CRS          Catholic Relief Services
DED          Detailed EngineeringDesigns
DIPA         Dafter Isian Proyek Pusat (BRR Approved Budget)
EA           Environmental Assessment
EIA          Environment Impact Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
FM           Financial Management
FMA          Financial Management Agent
GAM          Free Aceh Movement
GO1          Government o f Indonesia  ,
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IAP          Immediate Action Program
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IC           Individual Consultants
IDA          International Development Association
IDP          Internally Displaced People
IFR          InterimFinancial Report
IPM          InfrastructureProgramManagement
IREP         InfrastructureReconstruction Enabling Program
IRFF         InfrastructureReconstruction Financing Facility
JICA         Japan International Cooperation Agency
KfW          KfWDevelopment Bank
KPPN         Regional Treasury Office
LARAP        Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan
LGIP         Local Government Annual Investment Plan
MDF/MDTFANS  Multi-Donor Trust Fundfor Aceh and North Sumatra
MOF          MinistryofFinance
MOU          Memorandum o f Understanding
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Government Organization
O&M          Operations and Maintenance
PGIP         Provincial Government Annual Investment Plan

                                                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



      PIP                    Project ImplementationPlan
      PMU                    Project Management Unit
      QBS                    Quality-Based Selection .
      QCBS                   Quality and Cost Based Selection
      RFP                    Request For Proposal
      SA                     Special Account
      S A K                  BRR'sAnti-Corruption Unit(Satuan Anti-Korupsi)
      SOE                    Statement of Expenditure
      SOP                    Standard Operating Procedures
      SPM
      sss                    Surat Permintaan Pembayaran
                             Single-Source Selection
      TA                     Technical Assistance       *
      TD                     Tender Documents
      TOR                    Terms o f Reference
      UNDP                   UnitedNations Development Program
      USAID                  United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
      WFP                    World FoodProgram




                                              Vice President:      James W. Adams
                                           Country Director:       Andrew D. Steer
                                              Sector Director:     Keshav Varma
                                          Task Team Leader:        Aniruddha Dasgupta




                       a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                      INDONESIA

         INFRASTRUCTURERECONSTRUCTIONFINANCING FACILITY

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS




I.

11.

111.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

E.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

xv.

Annexes

Annex 1.  Project ResultsSummary ........................................................................ 26

Annex 2.  DetailedProject Description________________________________________---------------------------- 28

Annex 3.  InstitutionalDesignandImplementationArrangements ....................................           31

Annex 4.  SubprojectEligibilityCriteria________________________________________-------------------------- 40

Annex 5.  FinancingandFundFlowto InfrastructureReconstructionSubprojects ----------------- 42

Annex 6.

Annex 7.

Annex 8.

Annex 9.

Annex 10.

Annex 11,

Annex 12.

Annex 13.

Annex 14.

                                                       INDONESIA

                       INFRASTRUCTURERECONSTRUCTIONFINANCINGFACILITY

                                         PROJECTAPPRAISAL,DOCUMENT

                                         EASTASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                                                         EASUR




[ ]Loan   [ ] Credit [X 3 Grant [ ] Guarantee[ ] Other:
TotalProjectCosts: US$291million
MDFGrant Amount: US$IOO million
Government Contribution:USSl91 million


       Borrower                            191                             0                               191
         MDF                                85                             15                              100
         Total                             276                            15                              291




FY                              FY07                FY08                FY09
Annual                            25                  50                   25
Cumulative                        25                  75                  100




     ' Although   IRFF's implementationperiodis January 2007-January2010, the disbursement schedule will span two
     and a half years from January 2007 to June 2009. The completion of BRR's mandate is currently scheduledfor
     April 30,2009. Ifsubprojects are not completedby April 2009, they canbe financedby IRFF till June 2010 (when
     the project is scheduledto close) inline withpost-BRRinstitutional arrangements, detailedin a transition strategyto
     bepreparedby June 2008, andagreedbyGO1andthe Bank.

infrastructurewas damaged by the tsunami o f 2004 and the subsequent earthquake.
Projectdescription
     (i)Financing      of Infrastructure Reconstruction gnd Rehabilitation Investments. Financing o f individual
           infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation subprojects in 12 local governments and districts thereof
           and strategic investments at the provincial level, including civil works and goods in subprojects in the
           following sectors: roads, ports, water and sanitation, drainage, flood control, coastal protection and
           restoration o f major irrigation canals.
     (ii)Targeted Support to Infrastructure Subproject Planning, Design, Supervision, and Implementation
           Oversight. Need-based support to local and provincial governments for identification, design and
           preparation o f infrastructure reconstruction subprojects, technical assistance for transition to a post-BRR
           timeframe and institutional arrangements beyond April 2009, including extension o f TA provided under
           REP, and capacity building and infrastructure asset maintenance programs for local and provincial
           governments, as well as assistance in conducting performance and financial audit (over and above
           external audit) o f project financial statements.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? The project will not have any large scale or irreversible adverse
environmental impacts. The project triggers the World Bank Safeguards Policies on Environmental Assessment
(OP/BP4.01), Indigenous Peoples (OD 4-10], and Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12). The project is classified
as environment Category "A".
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any: None

                                          EXECUTIVESUMMARY



April 2005, a dedicated Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency - Badan Rehabilitasi dun Rekonstrubi
Followingthe tsunami and earthquake o f December 2004, the Government o f Indonesia (GOT) created, in

(BRR) - to provide leadership and management across all aspects o f recovery. The first reconstruction
priority was the provision o f housing. This program i s now well underway. The second reconstruction
priority was to rebuild essential infrastructure and much work remains to be done on that front.

The BRR has outlined an Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy, which encompasses three phases, each
one o fwhich receives funding from the Multi-Donor Trust Fundfor Aceh and North Sumatra (MDF)':
          An Immediate Action Plan is under implementation. It addresses key infrastructure bottlenecks
          mainly intransport, logistics and flood protection.
          An Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) has just become effective. IREP is
          providing Technical Assistance (TA) to BRR and to local and provincial governments in Aceh
          and Nias for the selection, preparation and implementation o f infrastructure investments.
          The proposed Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF) would contribute US$lOO
          million from the MDF (and about US$191 million from BRR) to the reconstruction o f basic
          infrastructure in Aceh and Nias. There i s close strategic integration between REP and IRFF as
          IRFF focuses to a large extent on financing the individual infrastructure projects (called
          subprojects in the rest o f the report to distinguish them from the overall IRFF project itself)
          prepared with the REP TA.

Given the magnitude o f the damage caused by the tsunami and the extent to which people's basic needs
remain to be met, the GO1 puts great emphasis on a swift implementation o f the Infrastructure
Reconstruction Strategy. BRR has been given about five years to accomplish its mission, with a mandate
that i s expected to end in April 2009. BRR and MDF will co-finance investments under IRFF, according
to a 70:30ratio starting January 1, 2007. IRFFi s therefore being processed under an accelerated schedule
to ensure that project implementation can start before November 2006 when BRR's 2007 budget needs to
be finalized and approved by Parliament.

Various financing options were considered for IRFF, including (i)       MDF and BRR parallel financing; (ii)
MDF and BRR co-financing; and (iii)MDF, BRR, and local government co-financing.                     Given the
project's priorities to deliver a significant volume o f high-quality infrastructure within a short
implementation period, while instilling ownership o f local and provincial government - the MDF and
BRR co-financing was found to be the most appropriate option. While local government financing may
enhance their commitment, differences in budgeting cycles between the local governments and BRR
would pose challenges with respect to co-financing arrangements and lead to significant delays in
implementation. These delays would be a major reputational risk for the World Bank, BRR, and the
MDF - and would weaken confidence o f the people o f Aceh and Nias in the project and local
government( s).

IRFF includes alternate strategies for building local and provincial government ownership and capacity
(as highlighted in Annex 10). First, a Programmatic co-financing arrangement i s in place in which the
BRR and the local/provincial governments will co-finance Local Government Investment Plans (LGIPs)

2The Multi-Donor Fundbrings together a pool of over US$S20 million from 15 donors and is a partnership o f the
Indonesia government, international community and civil society to support the recovery in Aceh and Nias. At the
request o f the Government o f Indonesia these donors came together to avoid duplication and reduce transaction
costs for the central government, the BRR and the affected communities. The Multi-Donor Fundis co-chaired by the
BRR,the European Commission andthe World Bank. The World Bank administers the Fundand acts as its trustee.


                                                         i

 and Provincial Government Investment Plans (PGIPs). The BRR will finance some o f the subprojects
under the LGIPRGIP with IRFF funds, while local governments (and donors) will fund the others.
 Second, an MOUbetween the BRR and local and provincial governments will include confirmation o fthe
 subprojects the BRR will finance inthe LGIP/PGIPs through IRFF, as well as formal commitment by the
local and provincial governments to allocate necessary budgetary resources to maintain these investments
on the basis o f a maintenance plan.         Operations and maintenance o f all IRFF subprojects will be
 supported by detailed financial and maintenance assessments/plans developed by IREP technical
assistance (West Coast, Nias, and Strategic Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision consultants).

Only some o f the investments to be financed by IRFF have been identified up to now (Section X and
Annex 11, o f the P A D present the information available about those investments). As a result, a primary
concern in designing IRFF i s to ensure that an appropriate framework i s in place to enable adequate
planning, selection, preparation, execution and supervision o f infrastructure subprojects duringthe course
o f IRFFimplementation:
         TA is inplace, through IREP, to help BRRprepare strategic programs and sector plans basedona
         sound understanding o f infrastructure needs and priority projects, and on an adequate allocation
         o f responsibilities between the major entities active in the infrastructure field (see, inter alia,
         Section XI).
         New institutional mechanisms have been set up to ensure that annual investment plans are
         prepared through participatory processes involving BRR, local and provincial governments, as
         well as other stakeholders (see, inter alia, Section IV).
         Eligibility and prioritization criteria have been identified (and will be further refined by BRR and
         local/provincial governments) to help select the specific sub-projects - included within the annual
         investment plans mentioned above -that will receive IRFFfunding (see Section V and Annex 4).
         TA is inplace - through REP and IRFF3- to support subproject preparation and implementation:
         consultants will assist in producing subprojects detailed designs, in supervising contractors, in
         ensuring that environmental and social issues are adequately addressed, in promoting sound
         financial management and procurement practices, and in combating corruption (see Section IV).
         An Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (see Annex 8), Financial Management
         Arrangements (see Annex 7), a Procurement Plan (see Annex 6), and an Anti-Corruption Action
         Plan (see Annex 9) have been agreed during appraisal and will be reflected in the Project
         Implementation Plan to be submitted in draft form prior to negotiationo f IRFF.

The speed and magnitude o f the planned infrastructure reconstruction activities raise serious capacity and
sustainability challenges. This i s particularly true for local and provincial governments. Their capacity
has always been limited and was further eroded because o f the tsunami. In addition, local governments
will likely shoulder most o fthe responsibility for maintainingnewly rebuilt assets and for developing new
infrastructure after the end o f BRR's mandate in,April 2009. A number o f steps - described in more
details in Section XI and Annex 10 -have been taken to try and address those challenges:
         As mentioned above, TA programs have been designed to emphasize hands-on training o f local
         government technical departments, as well as o f BRR staff. Such TA i s an important tool that will
         contribute to ensure the quality o f infrastructure subprojects undertaken, during BRR's mandate
         and will prepare local authorities for the post-BRR era.
         The overall incentive framework under which local government officials operate inthe context o f
         IRFF is geared toward buildinglasting institutional capacity at the local government level. For

  Three local governments in Aceh - those of Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang - are currently receiving TA
assistance from existing consulting arrangements for subprojects identification and design. Such assistance will end
in January 2007 however, and a small fraction of IFSF funds will be used to ensure that those three local
governments continue to benefit, beyond January 2007, from the type of TA made available, under IREP, to other
local governments inAceh and Nias.


                                                        11

         example, making IRFF resources available to finance well prepared local infrastructure
         subprojects is expected to prompt local governments, to improve their ability to select and
         prepare such subprojects so as to gain access to IRFFfinancing.
         Mechanisms have been designed to ensure that local government officials develop a sense o f
         ownership with respect to the infrastructure assets financed under IRFF. For example, new
         institutional arrangements are in place to give local governments a say in the design o f annual
         investment plans, the program managers or satkers responsible for preparing and implementing
         subprojects will be chosen by local governments and will generally be local government staff,
         and responsibilities for procurement and financial management will progressively be transferred
         to local governments as their capacity to handle suchresponsibilities increases.
         Finally, measures will be taken to ensure that appropriate institutional arrangements are put in
         place for the post April 2009 period. BRR and the GO1 are committed to drafting a transition
         strategy to specify those institutional arrangements at least one year before the scheduled
         expiration o f BRR's mandate in April 2009. This transition strategy will, inter alia, propose
         institutional mechanisms aimed at facilitating exchanges o f experience between all Aceh and Nias
         local governments involved in infrastructure reconstruction and development. In addition, an
         unallocated component o f IRFF i s currently held in reserve and could be used to extend the TA
         carried out under IREPbeyond June 2009.

Finally, the P A D highlightsthe need to allocate sufficient resources to allow thorough Bank supervision
o f this complex operation.    During IRFF implementation, Bank staff will review Interim Financial
Reports each quarter to assess financial management, procurement, and physical progress made in the
preceding quarter and to agree with the procurement plan o f the forthcoming quarter. This procurement
plan will include subprojects to be undertaken in the next quarter along with the rationale for their
inclusion.    The Bank will also receive bi-annual monitoring reports covering environmental and
safeguards issues. As part o f the agreed Anti-Corruption Action Plan, BRR will regularly share with the
Bank the findings o f technical and financial audits and ensure that any suspected case o f corruption
related to IRFF i s reported immediately to the Bank. Lastly, any changes to the Project Implementation
Plan - and in particular to the main components o f the Plan such as the Environmental and Social
Safeguards Framework, the Financial Management Arrangements, the Procurement Plan and the Anti-
corruption Action Plan - will be made in agreement with the Bank (see Section XI11for more details on
the Bank's review and supervision functions under IRFF).




                                                     iii

                                         TECHNICAL REPORT


I. BACKGROUND

1.       The tsunami and earthquake that struck the Indian Ocean in December 2004 caused devastation
on a horrific scale. In Indonesia, the disaster killed or left missing more than 230,000 people, and
destroyed communities, infrastructure and livelihoods.         The total reconstruction and development
program for Aceh and Nias i s estimated to cost between US$6-9 billion4 (2005-2009), making it the
largest reconstruction program in the developing world. In addition to the physical damage, the disaster
caused enormous destruction to the economy and loss o f institutional capacity. While it appears that
peace may finally have been achieved in Aceh between the government and the Free Aceh Movement, the
neglect o f infrastructure and human development from thirty years o f conflict adds to the reconstruction
challenges.

2.       Following the disaster, the immediate need was to put in place humanitarian and disaster relief
programs; these were widely supported and successfully implemented by local and national governments,
as well as numerous agencies, NGOs and individuals. The people o f Indonesia and the international
community have since shifted from the initial emergency phase to the recovery phase. InApril 2005, the
Government o f Indonesia (GOI) created a dedicated Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency - Badan
Rehabilitasi dan Rekonstruksi (BRR)       - to provide leadership and management across all aspects o f
recovery. Given the magnitude o f the losses suffered and the number o f organizations currently involved
inreconstruction efforts, demands on the technical and coordination capacities ofBRRas well as on local
and provincial governments are enormous. The first reconstruction priority was the provision o f housing
-thisprogramiswellunderway, with45percentoftheoverallrebuildingneedsinprogress. Thesecond
reconstruction priority -which has made less progress - was to rebuild and restore essential infrastructure
services, such as transport, roads, macro and local level drainage, water supply and sanitation, power
distribution, and solid waste. Overarching these demands are the BRR's policy goals o f rebuilding to
improved standards (i.e., building back better),. strengthening local governments, and working with
communities.

3.       Sector overview. As o f March 2006, approximately US$4.7 billion had been allocated by GOI,
NGOs and donors (including MDF)to specific rehabilitationprojects and an estimated additional US$3.7
billion hadbeen committed but had not been allocated to specific projects. Of this total o f US$8.4 billion,
US$535 million comes from the MDF'. This total o f US$8.4 billion appears sufficient given overall
fundingneeds to: (i) the original loss assessment across all sectors from the tsunami and earthquake
                      cover
o f US$4.9 billion; (ii)cover anticipated cost increases o f US$ 1.2billion resulting from inflation; and (iii)
build back better (US$2.3 billion) according to th'e GOI's stated objective. However, BRR, donors' and
NGOs' interests and focus are varied across sectors according to their comparative advantage and
preference and this has resulted in some mismatch between available funds and financing needs.
Infrastructure, in particular, currently shows a deficit o f available funds for reconstruction of about
US$650 million.

4.      Having suffered the most damage, the housing and social sectors have received the greatest
attention inthe post-tsunami reconstruction program interms o f the allocation o f resources. The estimate
o f damage to the housing sector was US$1.4 billiQn,with the demand for new houses now ranging from
93,000 to 120,0006. The housing program is moving rapidly (and generally in the absence o f supporting

4Aceh and Nias One Year After the Tsunami: TheRecovery Effort and Way Forward, December2005
 Aceh and Nias One YearAfter the Tsunami: TheRecovery Effort and Way Forward, December2005
6PermanentHousing Brief, February 16,2006, UN-HABITAT.


                                                      1

infrastructure) - by the end o f June 2006, an estimated 35,000 houses have been completed, with up to
22,000 under construction. Ensuring quality o f finished works and providing sufficient supporting
infrastructure are the key sector priorities.

5.       Damage to infrastructure has been substantial and progress slow. To the extent that bothphysical
infrastructure and staffing were limited before the tsunami, (for e.g., in the water and sanitation sector,
there were no sewage systems and less than 30 percent o f the population have been provided with piped
water), building back better will require substantially more investment than simply replacing what was
lost. Sectoral funding gaps resulting from a mismatch between available funds and financing needs
further strain reconstruction efforts. Lack o f sufficient funding i s particularly severe in the transport
sector, and to a lesser extent in flood control and in irrigation. The funding deficit in the transport sector
i s a critical issue as an efficient transport network i s vital for the delivery o f rehabilitation and
reconstructionassistance and for overall economic development.

6.       The progress o f spatial and infrastructure development planning i s mixed. At the sub-district
level, numerous donors, NGOs, and the government have produced community mapping and
development plans but hardly any infrastructure planning. These efforts have succeeded in involving
communities in the planning process, articulating community priorities and vision, and creating the
foundations for the reestablishment o f land rights. However, the early approaches were not standardized
and quality varies. Many community mapshillage spatial plans were made before the release o f post-
tsunami aerial photography, not developed on accurate base maps, and lack topographic details - thus
limiting their utility for implementation. At the district level, the availability o f updated spatial and
infrastructure development plans i s limited.

7.       Role of the Aceh-Nias Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (BRR). BRR's primary
mission was to develop standard operating procedures and to provide coordination, leadership, and
quality control o f the activities financed by the government or underway by donors and NGOs. The BRR
has undergone continuous organizational and managerial strengthening since then. BRR i s also
strengthening its presence and coordination, at the.district and sub-district level through newly established
regional offices.     BRR has given priority to engaging district governments - the ultimate aim is to
increase capacity o f provincial and district authorities to allow a gradual shift. o f decision-making,
management, and implementation responsibility from BRR to facilitate BRR's exit in 2009.

8.       BRR's Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy. To determine the allocation o fremaining MDF
resources and to provide a strategic approach to infrastructure design and management, BRR has outlined
an InfrastructureReconstruction Strategy. This strategy serves as a framework for rehabilitation tailored
to addressing infrastructure needs at the district and provincial levels, in particular, infrastructure linking
communities.      The core approach is to engage local governments, in collaboration with affected
communities, to prioritize and manage their own infrastructure needs, within a framework of strong
planning and oversight by BRR, with appropriate technical assistance (TA)'.              BRR's medium-term
strategy for the MDF comprises three main priorities:

    (i)       Remaining MDF resources should be predominantly used for the reconstruction and
              development (i.e., buildingback better) o f infrastructure, broadly defined, at the housing plot,
              community, and districtlprovincial levels.



  In July 2005, the Multi Donor Fund (MDF) approved a technical support project to BRR for US14.7 million,
which provides BRR with additionalfunding, to enable BRR to recruit consultants and advisors with the best skills
and expertise available. TA provided by IREPiIRFF is distinct from this program, and from other TA providedto
BRR, as it is specific to the implementationand supervisionof infrastructure investments.


                                                         2

     (ii)    The provision o f infrastructure should be closely matched with capacity building efforts for
             local and provincial governments through a learning by doing approach and community
             participation for enhanced governance to prepare for the BRR's handover o f recovery
             activities to local and provincial governments in2009.
     (iii)   Though the initial focus will be on the areas most damaged by the tsunami and earthquake
             (with a particular focus on Nias), infrastructure support and related capacity building should
             be gradually extended to districts o f Aceh where years o f conflict stunted economic and
             human development.

9.       Phasing of infrastructure support. The BRR Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy
encompasses three phases: (i)    the execution o f the ongoing MDF-supported Immediate Action Plan (IAP)
agreed upon inNovember 2005 to meet urgent infrastructure needs; (ii) Infrastructure Reconstruction
                                                                           the
Enabling Program (IREP), which i s providing technical assistance for the mobilization o f human
resources and technical support to BRR, provincial, and local governments; and (iii)the proposed
Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF), which will finance local and provincial level
infrastructure subprojects, provide targeted technical assistance and capacity building to local
governments to plan, implement and strengthen implementation oversight o f the infrastructure
reconstruction program, and facilitate the transition o f infrastructure program management to provincial
and local governments.

10.      The first phase, the IAP, addresses key infrastructure bottlenecks - existing and anticipated. BRR
i s implementing this program through four partner agencies, the World Food Program (WFP), United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), Catholic Relief Services (CRS), and Muslim Aid. The projects
covered by these agencies include sea delivery, logistics, ports, road and bridge repairs, and drainage and
flood protection works, respectively. These projects lay some o f the groundwork for the implementation
o f the second and thirdphases o f the Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy.

11.      The second phase, MDF-funded Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) is
providing technical assistance and additional human resource capacity over a three-year period, to assist
the BRR inimplementing the proposed thirdphase o f the strategy, which provides funding for investment
to targeted infrastructure subprojects. This TA will provide direct support to BRR for the strategic
planning, programming and implementation o f infrastructure development and reconstruction. IREP will
also provide TA to 9 local governments most severely affected (7 on the West Coast' and 2 on Nias
Islandg), and to the provincial governments o f Aceh and Nias to strengthen their project preparation
capacity across infrastructure sectors. IREP i s designed to support the activities already undertaken by
the government and by numerous agencies and donors. The local government and provincial level teams
will build project management capacity, prepare infrastructure development plans, feasibility studies,
detailed designs, comprehensive procurement planning and support, and will provide construction
supervision for infrastructure development.

12.      The proposed MDF-BRRco-financed Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF) is
the third phase o f the Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy. It will provide an annual allocation o f funds
for the reconstruction o f basic infrastructure to each o f the disaster-affected districts, with additional
oversight, monitoring, and quality control provisions. There i s close strategic integration between IREP
and IRFF as IRFF focuses to a large extent on financing the individual infrastructure projects (called




8 Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, NaganRaya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil, and Simueleu.
9 Nias and Nias Selatan.


                                                        3

subprojects, in the rest o f the report to distinguish them from the overall IRFF project itself) prepared
with the IREPTA".

 13,      Rationale for MDF involvement. The BkR's approach o f utilizing available resources from the
MDF in the context o f its overall rehabilitation and reconstruction strategy will yield three distinct
benefits: (i)  MDFwill provide an additional andneededUS$lOOmillion, to partially fillthe infrastructure
funding gaps that have emerged as a result o f the misallocation o f resources'' among sectors and across
local governments in Aceh and Nias, as well as due to inflation; (ii)the US$lOO million o f MDF
resources (of which US$82 million will be allocated to financing infrastructure subprojects) will leverage
US$191 million o f BRR's monies to ensure that the investments under preparation, benefiting from high
quality technical assistance provided by REP, will indeed be financed; and (iii)MDF resources will be
used to strengthen the sustainability o f infrastructure reconstruction and facilitate the continuation o f
infrastructure development beyond the end o f BRR's mandate in April 2009 by financing (a) subproject
implementation till IRFF's scheduled closing in June 2010; (b) the extension o f TA provided by REP to
local and provincial governments beyond June 2009 to continue supporting the implementation and
construction supervision o f subprojects financed by IRFF; and (c) TA activities specifically designed to
facilitate the transition to the post-BRR era.

11.       PROJECT     DESCRIPTION

 14.      Objectives. The objective o f the Infrastnicture Reconstruction Financing Facility i s to assist the
province o f Aceh and 12 local governments in Aceh and Nias to reconstructhehabilitate strategic
infrastructure and extend key infrastructure services o f adequate quality standards that meet the needs o f
communities where infrastructure was damaged by the tsunami o f 2004 and the subsequent earthquake.
BRR has devised a consultative planningprocess that considers local needs as well as the overall strategic
priorities o f the reconstruction program to develop Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs)
and Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans (PGIPs) that contain a list o f priority infrastructure
subprojects to be undertaken. BRR i s already receiving technical assistance from MDFunder IREP inthe
strategic planning, programming and implementation o f infrastructure development and reconstruction.
The proposed IRFF will finance a subset o f individual subprojects in the LGIPs and PGIPs totaling
US$273 million by utilizing $82 million o f MDFresources and $191million o f BRR's funds. Inorder to
provide adequate time to complete IRFF-financed subprojects by the scheduled completion date o f
January 2010, BRR plans to complete the allocation o f US$273 million to approved IRFF subprojects by
April 30, 2008. Inaddition, MDFresources will be usedto strengthen the sustainability o f infrastructure
reconstruction as mentioned above.

15.       The key performance indicators for these development objectives are:

   (i)       Proposals o f infrastructure subprojects financed by IRFF will include a set o f indicators,
             including use o f infrastructure, quality, user satisfaction, cost and timeliness that will be used

I OIREP TA will be to identify, prepare, implement and supervise IRFF-financed subprojects. It may be noted
however, that supporting IRFF i s but a part o f IREP TA's contribution to BRR's infrastructure reconstruction
program; IREP TA will oversee infrastructure program management, planning, design, and construction
management o f adequate standards in the West Coast and Nias, as well as support BRR in overall coordination of
the infrastructure reconstruction program.
'' The  mismatch between available funds and financing needs has arisen somewhat inadvertently as a result o f
donors and NGOs contributing resources to specific activities they see themselves best suited to deliver. Although
BRR coordinates the post-tsunami recovery and reconstructionprogram, its ability to address the funding mismatch
across sectors by reallocating resources i s limited given that the activities that it coordinates would themselves need
to reflect donors' and NGOs' preferences. Le., donors would not like to see their contributions finance activities in a
sector outside their area o f expertise.


                                                            4

               to measure performance during subproject implementation and after subproject completion.
               Monitoringmechanisms, to assess the level o f compliance with subproject performance criteria
               will be putinplace;
               Infrastructure subprojects financed by IRFF after the infrastructure development strategy"
               drafted to reflect the priorities laid out therein;
               Technical designs o f infrastructure subprojects are sound and appropriate;
               Proper financial and safeguards measures are integrated into the preparation o f infrastructure
               subprojects financed by IRFF;
               Implementation o f infrastructure subprojects financed by IRFFi s adequately supervised;
               Performance and financial audit reports (in addition to external audits financed under IREP) o f
               financial statements of infrastructure subprojects financed by IRFFare prepared;
               A progressively increasing proportion o f projects, is managed by local and provincial
               government staff over IRFFproject cycle;
               A progressively increasing proportion o fprojects managedby local and provincial government
               staff over IRFF project cycle incorporates appropriate safeguards measures, financial
               management and procurement practices duringproject design and implementation.
               Maintenance o f infrastructure subprojects reflects asset maintenance strategies developed by
               IPM/IREP consultants;
               IPWIREP consultants design institutional mechanisms according to local/provincial
               government capacity to sustain subproject implementation and supervision responsibilities o f
               BRRafter the completion o fBRR'smandate;
               A comprehensive survey designed to assess the state o f infrastructure service delivery, in the
                12 districts o f Aceh and Nias that are benefiting from IRFF financing o f individual subprojects
               will be conducted at the beginning and at the end o f IRFF. Additionally, the survey will assess
               beneficiaries' satisfaction with infrastructure investments made in their respective communities
               as well as their quality at the end o f IRFF.

  16.        Project components.The proposed IRFF, co-financed by MDF and BRR, consists o f two main
 components that will be implemented over the January 2007 - January 2010 periodI3. A detailed
 description o f the project components is provided inAnnex 2.

        a) Component 1       - Financing   of InfrastructureReconstruction and RehabilitationInvestments
             (US$273.0 million) will finance individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local
             governments - 914 o f which are benefiting from IREP TA, and 315 o f which are receiving
             technical advice from existing consulting arrangements, as well as strategic investments at the
             provincial level. Each individual infrastructure subproject will be co-financed by BRR and MDF,
             according to a 70:30 ratio. This component will provide resources for civil works and goods in
             subprojects in the following sectors: roads, ports, water and sanitation, drainage, flood control,
             coastal protection and restoration o f major irrigation canals.

 ''BRRis
~~    ~~    ~




              benefiting from IREP support to create an overall strategic program for infrastructure recovery on the
basis o f individual sector plans highlighting needs and corresponding priority projects in affected areas. This
infrastructure development strategy will be reviewed every six months, and will require the approval of, the
Infrastructure Board o f BRR.
l3 BRR's mandate to lead, coordinate, and manage post-tsunami reconstruction is scheduled to expire inJune 2009.
The IRFFproject, scheduled to close inJune 2010, will extend one year beyond the completion of BRR's mandate.
This will provide adequate time, ifneeded, for subprojects financed by IRFFto be completed inline with post-BRR
institutional arrangements, detailed in a transition strategy to be prepared by June 2008, and agreed by GO1and the
Bank.
l4 Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil, and Simueleu in the West
Coast and Nias and Nias Selatan inNias.
l5 Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, and Sabang.


                                                            5

     b) Component 2 - Targeted Support to Infrastructure Subproject Planning, Design,
         Supervision, and ImplementationOversight (US%3.0 million)I6will provide TA (i)                   to Aceh
         Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang that are currently receiving TA from existing consulting
         arrangements for subproject identification and design (till January 2007) for the period January
         2007 to January 2010'' (US$2 million). This component aims at strengthening the ability o f the
         Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang local governments to improve the provision o f
         infrastructure in their respective jurisdictions by providing technical experts to assist them in
         planning and subproject identification, subproject design, document submission, procurement,
         safeguards compliance, implementation, construction supervision, and monitoring; (ii)          to support
         performance and financial audit (over and above external audit) o f the project financial
         statements (US$0.6 million); and (iii)     to provide technical assistance for transition to a post-BRR
         timeframe and institutional arrangements beyond April 2009, including extension o f TA provided
         under IREP, and capacity building and infrastructure asset maintenance programs for local and
         provincial governments (USS0.4 million).

         Unallocated funds (US%l5.0 million). Inorder to mitigate uncertainty in the implementation of
         this project, a portion of the project funds is not allocated to any specific component. These
         unallocated resources may be used for one or more o f the following: (i)        extending IREP TA (a)
         beyond June 2009 to continue supporting the implementation, construction supervision and
         performance monitoring o f subprojects financed by IRFF, and (b) to support BRR's mandate o f
         supervision, performance monitoring and quality assurance o f the infrastructure reconstruction
         program; (ii)  financing TA activities necessary to help local and provincial governments prepare
         for the transition to a post-BRR era by undertaking greater responsibility o f infrastructure
         program management based on the IREP-financed BRR transition strategy, detailing institutional
         arrangements beyond the scheduled expiration o f BRR's mandate agreed by GO1and the Bank by
         June 2008; and (iii)financing additional subprojects in the event the implementation o f all
         subprojects proceeds as planned.

17.      Lessons learned and reflectedin the project design. Numerous lessons have been learned
from review o freconstruction efforts to dateI8. The design o f the project takes into account the following:

     e   The need to balance local level planning and overall reconstruction needs. One the one hand it i s
         critical to design a subproject planning process originating at the decentralized, local level so that
         the investments financed respondto community needs and local government planning capacity i s
         strengthened. Yet, to ensure coordination and efficient management o f available resources, it i s
         essential that infrastructure subprojects reflect the overall reconstruction needs and priorities

          ~    ~~                 ~




l6 There will be no replication of TA finding between IREP, IRFF and other existing consulting arrangements.
During appraisal, additional TA needs, similar to those addressed by IREP TA (including planning, design, and
construction supervision) were identified for Banda Aceh, Aceh Besar and Sabang. TA activities in these districts
were being supported by existing consulting arrangements funded by the French government, and were scheduled to
end inJanuary 2007. However, after appraisal, the French government announced its commitment to extending TA
inAceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang. Ifand when a commitment of funds is made by the French government, an
equivalent amount of finds for this TA will be put inthe unallocated funds under IRFF.
  During IREP preparation it was anticipated that additional bilateral assistance would be available to extend this
TA beyond January 2007. However, these resources were not secured. Inaddition, infrastructure reconstruction in
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang i s very complex and is beyond the resources and mandate o f the IREP
Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) consultants. Taken together, these factors warranted the inclusion o f TA
support ininfrastructure reconstruction to Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang inIRFF.
   Refer to December 2005 report Aceh and Nias One Year After the Tsunami: The Recovery Efort and Way
Forward.


                                                         6

         outlined in the BRR infrastructure development strategy. This balance i s achieved by requiring
         that IRFF-financed subprojects (i)be selected by local governments through a consultative
         process described in section IV below; and (ii)  be confirmed by BRR.
         The importance of speedy reconstruction while upholding the quality of construction. The
         magnitude o f infrastructure service disruption to communities in Aceh and Nias, calls for quick
         implementation and completion o f high quality reconstruction operations. IRFF addresses the
         need for speed and quality inreconstruction by utilizing highquality expertise through TPM/IREP
         consultants who will support BRR and local/provincial governments to deliver infrastructure
         subprojects on an accelerated basis.
         The need for local ownership of reconstruction efforts. It i s critical to ensure that local
         governments develop a sense o f ownership with respect to the infrastructure subprojects financed
         by BRR so that they devote financial and technical resources to keep building and maintaining
         these infrastructure assets. IRFF address'es this issue in several ways. For instance, LGIPs and
         PGIPs, which include investments to be financed by BRR as well as by local governments and
         other stakeholders, will be developed by the local government themselves with support from BRR
         staff and IREPconsultants. Further, project managers (or satkers) for BRR-financed projects will
         be designated by local governments and will generally be local government employees. In
         addition, all local infrastructure assets financed by BRR will legally belong to the respective
         local/provincial governments.
         The need for transition of overall infrastructure reconstruction managementfrom BRR to local
         andprovincial governments so as to sustqin reconstruction activity beyond the duration of BRR 's
         mandate in April 2009. Local and provincial government capacity in Aceh and Nias had been
         compromised over years o f political strife and the tsunami further reduced government capacity.
         Cognizant o f the risk that infrastructure reconstruction may breakdown in the absence of BRR
        post-April 2009, IRFF has built-in mitigating measures. BRR will undertake, with the help o f
         IREP consultants, an assessment o f local governments' capacity with a view to progressively
        transfer implementation responsibilities to local/provincial governments; IRFFwill finance TA to
         support local governments' capacity enhancement, if needed.         Further, R E P will assist the
        BRFUGOI to design institutional mechanisms detailed in a transition strategy, by June 2008 at the
         latest, to ensure that Government bodies are able to keep meeting the obligations o f BRR beyond
        the scheduled expiration o f its mandate in April 2009. IRFF will finance additional TA, as and
        when needed, to help local and provincial governments transition to the new post-BRR
        institutional arrangements.

18.     Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection. Options for financing and implementing
infrastructure subprojects to the level o f quality envisioned under IRFF are limited in the context o f Aceh
and Nias. However, the following approaches were considered:

        Project closing dates of June 2012 and June 2009. The team considered structuring IRFF as a
        five year project with a closing date o f June 2012 to provide sufficient time to complete
        infrastructure subprojects financed. However, such an arrangement would be contingent on (i)      the
        extension o f the MDTFANS, which i s scheduled to close in June 30, 2010; (ii)      the provision of
        funds by GO1to finance its share of IRFF subprojects after the scheduled completion o f BRR's
        mandate; (iii) preparation o f a transition strategy by BRFUGOI with IREP support, acceptable
                        the
        to the Bank, that will help local governments prepare for the post-BRR period; and (iv) the
        restructuring o f IRFF along the new institutional arrangements outlined in the transition strategy
        and modalities stipulated in the MDTFANS extension. Another alternative considered was to
        structure IRFF as a two year project with a closing date o f June 2009, to be approximately
        coterminous with the currently scheduled expiration o f BRR's mandate in April 2009.              On
        balance, the team decided to structure IRFF as a three year project with a closing date of June



                                                       7

        2010 to be coterminous with the MDTFANS. This would provide sufficient time for IRFF-
         financed subprojects to be completed, or at the very least, reach an advanced stage o f
        implementation, that could be completed under the new institutional arrangements in the
        transition strategy usingGO1resources.     .
        No co-financing of individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects. The team considered
        usingMDFresources to hlly finance a subset o finfrastructure subprojects preparedby BRRwith
        IREP support. This alternative was rejected on the grounds that it would decrease the leverage o f
        MDF resources in two ways: (i)US$lOO million o f MDF monies would not be sufficient to
         finance the subprojects generated by IREP, expected to be o f a total magnitude o f US$300-400
        million; and (ii)  utilizing US$lOO million o f MDF funds to completely finance a few subprojects
        as opposed to co-financing a larger number o f investments, would decrease the leverage o f MDF
        resources with respect to the quality and sustainability o f BRR-financed investments as such
        investments would not benefit from the technical, economic, financial and safeguards measures
        discussed in Section V below and inAnnex 4.
         Co-financing individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects funded from BRWMDF
        resources with local governments. Misalignment o f the budgetary cycles and administrative
        procedures o f BRR and local governments ruled out this alternative.
         Using MDF resources to co-finance all the infrastructure subprojects financed by BRR. The team
        considered usingMDF resources to co-finance all the infrastructure subprojects financed by BRR
        to increase the leverage o f MDF finances spent on infrastructure reconstruction.           However,
        financing all o f these subprojects under the proposed IRFF would result in spreading MDF
        resources too thinly across all o f BRR-financed subprojects, some o f which will not be subject to
        IREP quality control mechanisms.
        Financing overall support to BRR withoutfocusing solely on infrastructure. Key to recovery in
        Aceh and Nias i s the provision o f water and sanitation, transport and other essential
        infrastructure. Other donors are focusing on support to social and other areas o f BRR work,
        leaving infrastructure to be addressed by alternative sources.
        Suggesting that the BRR use its own funds to procure consultants for additional TA. BRR i s
        allowed to contract international expertise using its own funds. However, this procurement
        method limits the salary to which the consultant i s eligible, which hinders the hiring of top
        international experts. As infrastructure reconstruction progresses, highly specialized consulting
        services, not readily available from local expertise, will be required to respond to specific needs.
        Execution of the project by the Bank. The team considered Bank execution o f the project to
        facilitate faster implementation. However, this alternative was rejected since it would dilute the
        long term development o f ownership and capacity buildingo f local government and institutions.

111.    PROJECT COSTS

19.     IRFF will fund, among other things, individual infrastructure subprojects, each o f which will be
co-financed by BRR and MDF according to a 70:30 ratio starting on January 1, 2007. IRFF i s therefore
being processed under an accelerated schedule to ensure that project implementation can start before
November 2006 when BRR's 2007 budget needs to be finalized and approved by Parliament.

20.     The estimated costs o f financing infrastructure subprojects and funding the technical assistance
discussed above are displayed below in Table 1. The Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility
(IRFF) will combine US$lOO million o f MDF and US$191 million o f BRR resources to finance
individual infrastructure subprojects in 12 local governments o f Aceh and Nias, provide targeted support
to infrastructure subproject planning, design, supervision and implementation oversight, and set aside
US$15 million currently unallocated to specific project activities. The table below assumes that US$273
million (of the total project cost o f US$291 million) will be used to fund infrastructure subprojects by



                                                     8

combining US$82 million o f MDF and US$191 million o f BRR resources in a co-financing ratio o f
30:70.
                                Table 1:IRFFCostsandProposedSources of Funding

                           Component                        MDF         BRRCO-          Local Gov't
                                                           Request      financing      Co-financing
                                                            US$m          US$m            US%m
     1. Financing o f Infrastructure Reconstructionand       82.0         191.0       Local support
    Rehabilitation Investments                                                        costs
    2. Targeted Support to Infrastructure Subproject         3.O     Local support    Local support
    Planning, Design, Supervision, and Implementation                costs            costs
    Oversight
    (i) supporttoAcehBesar,BandaAcehandSabang
        TA
    (ii)Transition to post-BRR timeframe
    (iii)Performance and financial audit (over and above
    external audit) o fproject financial statements
    Unallocated                                              15.0
                                                            100.0         191.0

IV.      IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS INSTITUTIONAL DESIGN
                                                   AND

21.      Institutional support to infrastructure reconstruction. IRFF will use the management
structure set up for IREP.         The Project Management Unit (PMU) established under IREP will be
responsible for managing IRFF. BRR has appointed the Deputy o f Infrastructure as Head o f the PMU.
Located in the P M U i s the IREP Secretariat, responsible for daily work to support the functions o f the
PMU. A full-time Chief o f the PMU Secretariat has been appointed to administer the Secretariat work
program and staff. BRR will be responsible for equipping the Secretariat with qualified staff. The P M U
reports to the Chief Operating Officer (COO) o f BRR.

22.     At the BRR level, the progress o f the project will be monitored by the BRR Infrastructure Board
(IB),which is comprised of the Chief Operating Officer and the Deputies of Infrastructure, Housing,
Finance and Planning, and Institutional Development. The IB will provide overall guidance related to
donor and sectoral coordination, and monitor progress o f the reconstruction program. Detailed
implementation arrangements for the project are provided inAnnex 3.

23.     Joint Secretariats comprising representatives fi-om local governments and from decentralized
BRR offices will be established ineach o f the 12 districts covered by the project. The Joint Secretariats,
assisted by IREP consultants, will facilitate a mechanism o f coordination and consultation among
multiple stakeholders, including the local govefnments, BRR, and NGOs. Discussions at the Joint
Secretariats will be aimed at guiding the local/provincial planning process, formulating Local
Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs) and Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans
(PGIPs), and identifying individual subprojects therein to be co-financed by IRFF using BRR/MDF
resources.

24.     Planning and implementation of infrastructure reconstruction subprojects. IRFF will
finance individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local governments as well as strategic
investments at the provincial level. Local and provincial governments, with support fi-om BRR and REP
consultants will prepare Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs), and Provincial
Government Annual Investment Plans (PGIPs). IRFF will fund some o f the infrastructure subprojects
contained in the LGIPs and PGIPs. To avoid delays in making progress on the 2007 investment plan,
IREP-financed IPM consultants will review the projects already under preparation by BRR and other
donors and identify subprojects for IRFF financing. All subprojects financed by IRFF will be required to


                                                       9

meet eligibility criteria based on sector and geographic location, technical, economic and financial
requirements, and environmental safeguards.

25.      Preparation and review of the Local and.Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans. The
proposed project aims for programmatic co-financing o f key local investments embedded in strategic
local development investment plans prepared by local governments with the assistance o f IREP-financed
consultants. Existing and on-going donor assisted development and strategic planning efforts (for e.g.,
ADB's support o f KAF's, and Government o f France's support of local level infrastructure design) would
also serve as inputs for IRFF funded projects. Local governments will work with the Joint Secretariats
and IREP-financed consultants to prepare a Local Government Annual Investment Plan (LGIP) and
Provincial Government Annual Investment Plan (PGIP) in which prioritized local investment needs will
be gr~unded'~.

26.       Once the LGIPs & PGIPs are finalized, the Joint Secretariat and local government will send the
LGIPs and PGIPs to the BRR PMU, through BRR's regional office, for discussion and confirmation o f
BRR's potential commitment to finance specific subprojects with IRFF funds in line with regional
priorities. The BRR PMUwill share the list o f confirmed subprojects with the Bank every quarter as part
o f the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs; see section VI below) along with analyses justifying their
confirmation. Each accepted sub-project would be subject to a documented appraisal process to ensure
eligibility. As part o f the IFR review process, the Bank will ensure that subprojects are fully consistent
with, and meet the defined subproject eligibiliv criteria (set out in Annex 4), and that the required
safeguards assessments are met (see Annex 8). The BRR PMU and the Bank will agree (through a Bank
no objection letter, `NOL') on a procurement plan (subproject list o f IRFF funded projects derived from
LGIPs and PGIPs) for eligible subprojects for the forthcoming quarter that will contain details o f
confirmed subprojects and an explanation o f their inclusion in IRFF. Further, the Bank will require prior
review o f all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) goods and works contracts, all projects financed
retroactively, the first three National Competitive Bidding(NCB) goods and works contracts, consultants
contracts greater than US$200,000, the first three contracts usingConsultants Qualification Process (CQ)
and all sole-source contracts (see Annex 6).

27.      Preparation and approval of individual subprojects. All confirmed subprojects will be notified to
the local governments.         After agreement, an MOU between the BRR and local and provincial
governments will include confirmation o f the subprojects the BRR will finance in the LGIP/PGIPs
through IRFF, as well as formal commitment by the local and provincial governments to allocate
appropriate budgetary resources to maintain these investments on the basis o f a maintenance plan.
Operations and maintenance o f all IRFF subprojects will be supported by detailed financial and
maintenance assessmentdplans developed by IREP technical assistance (West Coast, Nias, and Strategic
Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision consultants).

28.      Local governments, with the assistance o f the IREP-financed consultants working at the district
level, will be responsible for detailed subproject preparation, including preliminary design, analysis o f
alternatives, conducting feasibility studies (including required environmental and social studies), followed
by detailed design and bidding documents2'.        Final subproject designs and tender documents will be




  The LGIPs and PGIPs will be circulated to the MDF Steering Committee for informational purposes and posted
on the BRR's webpage. The MDF will have the opportunity to comment on the plans during project supervision.
2o Environmental studies (AMDAL, UKLAJPL) will be carried out in such a way as to inform the completed
detailed designs. Therefore environmental mitigation should be integrated, as necessary, into finalized technical
drawings and inthe bill o f quantities.


                                                      10

submitted to the BRR P M U for review and tenderingz1. Once received by the BRR P M U for final
clearance and procurement, subprojects will be reviewed to ensure that they meet the technical, economic,
financial, environmental and safeguards compliance criteria developed at the outset o f the project.
Subproject eligibility criteria are discussed in Annex 4, and their role in the local government planning
process i s presented inAnnex 3.

29.      Subproject implementation. It i s expected that subprojects o f approximately US$150 million will
be allocated during each o f the 2007 and 2008 BRR budget cycles. Satkers will be responsible for
implementing individual subprojects and overseeing contractors with the support o f IREP supervision
consultants. These satkers, traditionally work-groups established within an appointed line-ministry, are
now organized by activities and sub-activities. Currently, satkers function as work-groups to manage the
implementation o f a project or program. In 2007, these stakers will be nominated by local governments
and appointed by BRR. Inlater years, it i s expected that satkers will be nominated and appointed by local
governments. Consultant teams will work alongside satkers to assist in the procurement, implementation
and supervision o f infrastructure reconstruction. Satkers will also be assisted by IREP consultants to
manage the flow o f subproject funds. In particular, the IREP supervision consultant will apprise the
stakers o f the progress made by contractors, and put his/her signatures on the contractor's invoice on the
basis o f which satkers will initiate payment.

30.      IRFF project financing and disbursement procedures.BRR and KPPN (Regional Treasury
Office) have established a very effective means o fdisbursingsatker investment funds to contractors, other
suppliers, and to satkers to cover day-to-day operating expenses.              The project will establish a
Designatedhpecial Account (DA) (described in Section VI below and in Annex 7), and the KPPN will
draw funds from the special account to meet project commitments as required. BRR and MDF will
contribute to each subproject financed by IRFF according to a co-financing ratio o f 70:30. KPPN will
simply draw 30% o f each claim's funding requirements from the Special Account and 70% from the
BRR's approvedbudget (DIPA)resources.

31.      As subprojects come on stream, contractors will be paid 20 percent o f contract price (as stipulated
in the contract) directly into their designated account on signing the contract.        The advance will be
secured by a bank guarantee as stipulated in the contract. To process the balance o f the payments, the
contractor will submit invoices, along with supporting documents, to the satker according to payment
provisions included inthe contract. The invoices submittedwill be verified by, and bear the signatures of,
the IREP/IRFF supervision consultant. Verification by IREP/IRFF supervision consultant will require
his/her review and confirmation that the physical progress o f works i s in accordance with the contract and
with the contractor's invoice. The BRR satker will not process invoices that do not have the IREP/IRFF
supervision consultant's signatures attesting to his/her verification o f the invoice. Satkers will review the
claim and confirm that it i s in accordance with the contract, that supporting documents are complete, and
that the claim i s in accordance with the approved satker budget. When all documentation i s complete the
satker will prepare an SPM-LS, which will be signed and stamped by both the satker manager and the
IREP/IRFF supervision consultant. The SPM-LS will then be forwarded by the satker to KPPN for
processing and direct payment to the contractor's bank account less any retention for guarantees or
advances provided for in the contract and for any taxation obligations. After checking that all supporting
documents are in order and that the claim has been correctly authorized by both the satker and IREP/IRFF
supervision consultant, KPPN will draw payment from the satker budget held by treasury and special



2'BRRPMUand provincial governments will carry out procurement for the first year of the project. Inlater years,
procurement will be decentralized to local and provincial governments on the basis of procurement capacity
assessments conducted by IPM consultants. Further details regarding procurement arrangements are provided in
Annex 6.


                                                     11

account according to the agreed apportionment and pay this directly to the contractor's specified account.
Details o f the project financing procedures are presented inAnnex 5.

32.      Local government participation in IRFF. During project appraisal, the team considered co-
financing individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects funded from BWMDF resources with
local governments. However, misalignment between the budgetary cycles o f local governments and that
o f BRR, variance between the administrative procedures o f local governments and those o f BRR as well
as between different local governments themselves, and weak technical and institutional capacity o f local
governments would have made formal co-financing between BRR, MDF and local governments unduly
challenging and complex.       At the same time, strengthening the capacity and the incentives o f local
governments to prepare, implement and maintain infrastructure projects together with BRR and also after
BRR's scheduled exit in April 2009 is a key priority. Accordingly, several steps have been taken to
maximize local government involvement inthe project s financed by IRFF:
         Both IREP and IRFF include TA components that emphasize hands-on training of local
         government technical departments, as well as o f BRR staff. Such TA is an important tool that
         will contribute to ensure the quality o f infrastructure subprojects undertaken during BRR's
         mandate and to prepare local authorities for the post-BRR era. These capacity building efforts
         will cover all aspects o f subproject selection and implementation.
         The overall incentive framework put in place in the context o f IRFF i s geared toward building
         lasting institutional capacity at the local government level. In particular, making IRFF
         resources available to finance well prepared local infrastructure subprojects i s expected to prompt
         local governments to improve their ability to select and prepare such subprojects so as to gain
         access to IRFFfinancing.
         Measures are taken to ensure that local governments develop a sense of ownership with
         respect to IRFF-funded projects. For example, Joint Secretariats, comprising a number o f local
         government staff along with representatives o f the Bappeda district office and the BRR
         decentralized office, are being set up in each district to facilitate the process o f selecting
         infrastructure subprojects. Inaddition, once subprojects are selected and approved for fundingby
         BWMDF, project teams will be formed at the local government level to start subproject
         preparation and the key members o f these project teams - in particular the satkers who manage
         subprojects - will be chosen by local governments and will generally be local government staff.
         Finally, BRR will undertake, with the help o f IREP consultants, an assessment o f local
         governments' capacity with a view to progressively transfer implementation responsibilities to
         those local governments able to carry out such responsibilities.
         In the context o f IRFF, BRR and the GO1are committed to develop a transition strategy, by
         June 2008 at the latest, which will specify the institutional arrangements that will apply after
         April 2009 period, the scheduled expiry date o f BRR's mandate. Such transition strategy will,
         inter alia, propose institutional mechanisms aimed at facilitating exchanges o f experience
         between all Aceh and Nias local governments involved in infrastructure reconstruction and
         development. In addition, an unallocated component o f IRFF i s currently held in reserve and
         could be usedto extend the TA carriedout under IREP beyond June 2009.

V.       ELIGIBILITY OF SUBPROJECTS

33.      In order to ensure that investments financed under the operation meet Bank and international
standards for quality o f investment and are sustainable, investments financed under the operation will be
evaluated prior to tendering using simple eligibility criteria.         During the initial stages o f their
engagement, the IPM consultants financed under the related IREP operation, will aid BRR in defining
eligibility criteria and in disseminating them to local governments and district level consultant teams.
These eligibility criteria aim to ensure that subprojects submitted for final approval by the BRR meet



                                                       12

simple requirements for (i)sectoral and geographic inclusion in the proposed project; (ii)appropriate
design o f technical solutions; (iii) economic and financial viability, including ensuring that mechanisms
are in place for operation and maintenance o f mF-financed investment; and (iv) compliance with the
agreed-upon safeguard approach as relates to environmental, social, and fiduciary safeguards in place
under IRFF.Details o f these eligibility criteria are provided inAnnex 4.

VI.      FINANCIALMANAGEMENT

34.      The size o f the proposed project, the number o f subprojects to be undertaken, and the complexity
o f the overall coordination and implementation o f the infrastructure reconstruction program assigned to a
newly-established agency like BRR create specific financial management challenges. A variety o f risk
management measures addressing these challenges have been adopted and are discussed below.
Additional information on financial management provisions i s provided inAnnex 7.

35.      Budgeting. IRFF will follow a standard annual government budget mechanism. The budget
authority (Satker) at the local level will work under BRR supervision and oversight. Project Management
Unit (Satker) at local level will be appointed by BRR through fit and proper procedures. Satkers at the
local level will report to BRR.

36.      As with other government projects, fundsunder this project needbe put inthe government budget
and follow existing government budgeting processes. Each individual infrastructure subproject will be
co-financed by BRR and MDF according to a 70:30 ratio, and will be recorded as such in the budget
documents. Inexceptional circumstances, other ratios may be consideredby the Bank and BRR.

37.      Accounting & Reporting. The project will use government accounting software (SAI) to record
project transactions.    An additional feature o f monitoring contract commitments in the accounting
software has been developed and will be used in project implementation. A separate worksheet will be
prepared to serve the reporting needs o f the Bank outlined in the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs). Grant
expenditures and activities will be reported to the Bank under the project IFR on a quarterly basis. Satkers
at the local level will submit the project IFRs to P M U in Banda Aceh for report consolidation. The
financial report may be prepared using a separate stand-alone spreadsheet.                 This would include
information on procurement, physical progress o f budgeted activities and financial sources and uses o f
funds. Formats for these will be agreed to before negotiations.

38.      Quarterly IFRs should be receivedby the Bank no later than 30 days after the end o f each quarter.
To ensure consistency o f the IFRs with GO1 reporting, the aggregates in the financial reports will be
reconciled periodically with the aggregates in the SA1 and Special Account. All financial transactions
should be properly recorded and supported by adequate evidence in accordance with Grant objectives.
The audited annual financial statements shouldbe made publicly available to ensure transparency.

39.      Internal Controls and Internal Audit. The internal audit department will be responsible to
review internal control o f all Satkers that implement the project budget at the local level. The internal
audit unit will recruit additional staff, ifnecessary, to supervise the project activities. The internal auditor
will conduct a review on internal control system in the implementing Satker, including payment
validation. Copies o f these reports will be made available to the Bank upon request.

40.      External Audit. BRR will prepare special purpose project financial statements annually in
specified formats. The financial report will be based on the summary o f financial transactions under this
grant. The project financial report will be subject to a performance and financial audit by the Supreme
Audit Institution (BPK), which may sub-contract this work to a reputable auditor acceptable to the Bank.



                                                       13

A copy o f the audited project financial statements, along with management letters issued by the auditors,
ifany, willbe submittedto the Banknolater thansixmonthsafter the endofthe fiscalyear.

41.      Terms o f Reference (TOR) for the project audit were agreed by the Bank with the Recipient
before negotiations. The audit report will include an opinion on the reliability o f the project financial
statements, including the validity and eligibility o f transactions through dedicated special account used for
channeling MDF funds. The audit reports will be made accessible to the public to ensure transparency.

42.      IRFFDisbursementArrangements.Applicable disbursement methods include: (i)              Advance; (ii)
Direct payment; and (iii)  Reimbursement. Advance method will be used to facilitate disbursements for
eligible expenditures. A Designated Account (DA) denominated in U S dollars will be opened in the
Central Bank (BI) or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank under the name o f MoF. The
management o f the DA would be under the responsibility DGTreasury, M o F and thus the application for
applying for an advance and reporting on uses o f the advances to the DA would be prepared by P M U and
submitted to the Bank through DG Treasury, MOF. The ceiling o f the advance provided to a Designated
Account (DA) i s $10,000,000. Application for applying for an advance and/or reporting on the uses o f
advances to the DA would be submitted, monthly or as required. Such an application would be supported
by: (i)list payments for contracts under Bank's prior-review and records evidencing such expenditures, or
(ii)statement o f expenditures (SOEs) for all other expenses, and (iii) reconciliation statement.
                                                                         DA

43.      Another acceptable method o f withdrawing funds under this arrangement i s the direct payment
method, involving direct payments to suppliers for works, goods and services upon request form. The
Disbursement Letter will stipulate the minimumapplication value for direct payment. No disbursements
will be made for goods or works for subprojects untilthe FMconsultants are mobilized.

44.      When the PMU has the capacity o f producing timely quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFRs),
reporting the use o f funds will be based on the IFR, and advance to the DA made for six month projected
expenditures. Preparation and presentation o f IFRs will be required regardless o f the selected method o f
disbursement.

45.      Retroactive financing will be provided under the project for up to 20% (i.e., US$20,000,000) o f
the MDF grant amount to finance eligible expenditures for project activities incurred after June 20, 2006.
The services, civil works, and goods to be eligible for retroactive financing should be contracted
following World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y
2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y
2004. All procurement contracts proposed under retroactive financing will be subject to the Bank's prior
review.

46.      Supervision Plan. Supervision o f project financial management will be done on a risk-based
approach at least once a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system,
including but not limited to accounting, reporting and internal control. The financial management
supervision will be conducted by financial management specialist and Bank consultants.

VII.     PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

47.      Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the provisions
stipulated in the Grant Agreement. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for all works
packages estimated to cost more than US$5 million each and goods packages estimated to cost
US$200,000 each. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for all other packages. Since the


                                                        14

minimumsize o f a subproject is US$300,000 there will be no need for shopping. For each contract to be
financed by the Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated
costs, prior review requirements, and time frame will be agreed between the Grant Recipient (BRR) and
reflected in the Procurement Plan. As mentioned above, retroactive financing will be provided under the
project for up to 20% (i.e., US$20,000,000) o f the MDF grant amount to finance eligible expenditures for
project activities incurred after June 20, 2006. All procurement contracts proposed under retroactive
financing will be subject to the Bank's prior review.

48.      Inline with the project's emphasis on supporting every stage of the subproject cycle, including
subproject identification, preparation o f detailed design and tender documents,                procurement,
implementation and supervision, the current procurement plan reflects contracts for technical assistance.
This will be updated once the subprojects are identified and prior to launching any procurement process
for subprojects. Once the first set o f subprojects are identified and reflected in the plan, the procurement
plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity inthe different local governments. Details o f the description o f the
various components and the proposed selection procedures are presented inAnnex 6.

49.      BRR has carried some procurement activities so far, mainly in the housing sector using direct
award. Itprovides funds to local governments to carry procurement, but retains the prerogative to approve
the final award o f contracts. BRR has expressed its concern on the capacity, timeliness and quality o f
procurement at the local government level, particularly incertain cases where there has been suspicion o f
collusion. In addition, political pressures weaken the capacity o f most local governments to undertake
procurement. As a result, BRR has indicated its decision to centralize procurement with the participation
o f the concerned local governments. BRR i s currently developing a structure for a new procurement unit
and plans to staff it with qualified personnel to carry the procurement for funds provided by BRR. All
procurement managers will have to be certified to carry procurement in accordance with the current
national certification system. The BRR will also have access to a pool o f experts and procurement
certified civil servants who then can use on an on-call basis. Additionally BRR intends to install and use
an e-procurement system. BRR i s currently assessing the e-procurement system in the city o f Sorabaya to
determine the ease o f its transferability for use intheir procurement, including under this project. A Bank
staff expert in e-procurement has assessed the current system in Sorabaya and found i t to be acceptable
for use, subject to recommendations that address weaknesses inthe system.

50.      IPM consultants will have a dedicated team o f procurement specialists with international and
national experience who will assist BRR in all procurement activities. The procurement services of the
IPM will include supporting the BRR in directly carrying procurement for the first 12 months while in
parallel assessing the procurement capacity at the local government level to determine the current
benchmark, developing this capacity through a combination o f training programs, on the job training, and
gradual transfer o f procurement responsibilities to the local governments in the last phase o f the project.
The BRR will request the Bank's no-objection to their decision to decentralize procurement to local
governments, and will reflect this in a revisedprocurement plan. The BRR will still be responsible for all
procurement in terms o f preparing procurement plan, ensuring use o f appropriate methods, following all
applicable procurement procedures inmanaging the process and evaluating and awarding bids.

VIII.    SAFEGUARD POLICIES

5 1.     Safeguard policies triggered by this pioject include environmental assessment, involuntary
resettlement, and Indigenous Peoples. These policies are triggered by virtue o f the fact that, taken
together, IREP/IRFF will design and finance a range o f infrastructure subprojects, and will therefore have
had to consider a full range o f safeguards issues as part o f subproject preparation and detailed design. A



                                                      15

safeguards framework for this project i s attached as Annex 8. The environmental and social safeguards
framework provides general policies and guidelines to serve the following objectives:
     0   Protect human health;
         Prevent environmental degradation as a result o f either individual investments or their cumulative
         effects;
         Enhance positive environmental outcomes;
         Avoid or minimize land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, and where this can not be
         avoided, provide compensation at replacement value and assistance to rehabilitate livelihoods
         based on consultation with those affected;
         Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen community social cohesiveness.

52.      The safeguard policies triggered include OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement and OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples.

      Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                         Yes                N o
      EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                             [XI                11
      Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                       11                 [XI
      Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           [I                 [XI
      Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)             [ ]                [XI
      Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)            .                  [XI                [I
      Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)                                        [XI                [I
      Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                [I                 [XI
      Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                        [I                 [XI
      Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)
                                                                          [I
                                                                          [I                 [XI
      Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [XI


53.      Environmental issues. Taken together, IREP and IRFF entail the procurement of services to
support infrastructure reconstruction and programming o f very significant MDF and BRR resources for
Aceh and Nias. Consequently, the consultant teams that will be engaged under the project will need to
have a good understanding o f related environmental and social impacts and how such impacts can
mitigated via appropriate planning, design, and implementation measures.

54.      Assessment of the impacts o f infrastructure reconstruction first needs to be set within the context
o f existing environmental conditions, particularly along the West Coast and in Nias. Furthermore it
should be recognized that existing conditions are being further impacted by the reconstruction process
that has been underway since early 2005 - now increasing in scope and intensity. Many coastal areas
have been severely damaged by the tsunami both in terms o f marine and terrestrial environments. In
many places coastlines have been physically altered, particularly the inter-tidal zones. Shallow coral reefs
have been affected resulting from the large amounts o f solid waste, silts and clays generated by the
waves. InNias, large tracts o f coastal land have been lifted up and an estimated 250 ha o f coral reefs are
reported to have been destroyed. With the loss o f sea defenses previously built up areas have been
reclaimed by the tides leading to coastal inundation and the recreation o f marshy areas juxtaposed with
human settlement.

55.      Social issues. In general, the infrastructure subprojects that will be designed and implemented
with support from IREP/IRFFwill entail replacement o f pre-existing infrastructure. As a result, the level

prioritization o f infrastructure needs, to reflect community needs - specifically those o f vulnerable groups,
o f associated social risks i s likely to be limited. However, it i s important for planning processes, including

such as women, children, and the poorest in society.




                                                        16

56.      In some cases, land acquisition and resettlement will be unavoidable, leading to a range o f
challenges associated with clarifying land titles and ensuring that adequate and timely compensation i s
provided.     Thousands o f people still remain missing after the tsunami while others still live in the
campsharracks or have moved to other regions. Although most intend to return to their holdings, the
timing varies. Therefore, in many cases landowners are not available to discuss land acquisition issues
leading to project delays or later conflicts during project implementation relating to disputed land claims.
A further challenge is indealing with the tenure rightsdefined under the customary and traditional codes,
particularly inNias which i s dominated by traditional tenure systems. For example, traditional codes do
not clearly define rights for women to inherit land, and a challenge may be how to ensure that female
heads o f households retainrightsto receive compensation.

57.      Although the people o f Aceh are a broadly homogeneous group, there are indigenous people
living in Nias requiring the project to undertake specific measures to ensure that they are meaningfully
engaged in consultation processes associated with the planning, design, and construction o f proposed
infrastructure.

58.      Safeguards approach.A range o f safeguards specialists will be hiredby IREP and IRFFboth for
the IPM team, the province level team and geographically based consultant teams situated on the West
Coast and in Nias. The safeguards team will initially conduct an environmental orientation study based
on a pressure/state/response methodology in order to determine how overall infrastructure planning can
best take account o f environmental challenges. Inorder to ensure that investments financed under IRFF
meet Bank and international standards for quality o f investment and are sustainable in the medium term,
all subprojects financed under the operation will be screened for compliance with environmental and
other safeguardpolicies.

59.      The Government o f Indonesia's environmental review procedures, which include specific
procedures for Aceh and Nias22,are broadly consistent with those o f the World Bank, and will form the
framework for the project's approach to environmental screening and mitigation. Subprojects being
prepared, designed and implemented under IREP/IRFF (including any subprojects not prepared under
IREPbut submitted to IRFF)will first be subject to eligibility criteria at subproject identification stage (to
be developed by BRR) in order to rapidly eliminate highly damaging or controversial proposals.           Once
sub-projects progress into formal project preparation, the World Bank and GO1 formal social and
environmental screening will be applied to determine what level o f social and environmental review i s
required as follows:
     --  full environmental assessment (AMDAL) required;
     --  environmental management and monitoring plan (UKLRJPL) required;
         Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP)required;
         standard operating procedures (SOP) only:

60.      All subprojects (being funded by IRFF) will be required to complete a standardized screening
form providing basic information, according to infrastructure sub-sector (roads, irrigation, drainage,
coastal defenses, et^.)*^. Other key tasks to be undertaken are further detailed in Annex 8. These include
principles for handling o f land issues and other assets based on minimizing impacts on assets, informed
consultation and use o f market price for assets lost, as well as sensitivity to local culture. Annex 8 A
provides details for a framework for treatment o f indigenous or isolated vulnerable people. Detailed


22 Ministry o f Environment Decree No. 308/2005 on Implementation o f Environmental Impact Assessment,
Environmental Management Measures and Environmental Controlling Measures for Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Activities o f Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam and Nias Islands o f NorthSumatra.
23GTZ is inprocess o f preparing standard screening formats for discussion with Province Bapedalda. The project
will review these formats as a basis for preparing appropriate internal screening procedures.


                                                         17

operational procedures for implementation o f the safeguards framework will be developed by the
PMU/IPM team and integrated into the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), and a program o f training
delivered for BRR, local government, project staff, and contractors.

61,      Gender outreach strategy. BRR has proposed special provisions in KREP/IRFF for empowering
women throughout the IRFFproject cycle, and anticipates improved quality o f IRFF investments through
this outreach strategy. The BRR's preliminary concept for engaging women and addressing gender
considerations in IRFF are; (i)direct solicitation o f inputs from women's groups during early review o f
proposed project designs (particularly for water and sanitation, and market projects); (ii)obtaining
women's inputs on investment prioritization through focus group discussions, or other means, and
integrating these considerations into the selection process; (iii)ensuring women are represented and
active in the district joint secretariat fora; and (iv) direct outreach to community stakeholders through
local print media and community radio, to inform on IRFF progress, plans, and major decision. Once
mobilized, the IPM Consultants will develop the gender component for IRFF, which the district based
IREP consultants will be responsible for implementing. In the interim, BRR will continue to develop
these gender outreach strategies, which will be refined and formally integrated into IRFF once IREP
consultants being operations.

IX.      ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTION PLAN

62.      An Anti-corruption Action Plan (ACAP)'has been prepared for the infrastructure investments to
be financed by IRFF. The implementation o f this plan depends on strong support from the BRR through
its PMU as well as the BRR's Anti-Corruption Unit (Satuan Anti-Kurupsi, or S A K ) . Details o f the action
plan and the mechanisms to protect IRFF subprojects from corruption are provided inAnnex 9.

63.      BRR will establish a small Ethics Team that would include representatives from the SAK and
from the Internal Audit unit o f BRR24.  This Ethics Team will work closely with the IPMconsultants, and
provide timely advice to the P M U on issues such as:

    Adapting and adopting procedures acceptable to the MDF and the government for hiring and
    managingconsultants and contractors;
0   Ensuring that parliament and civil society groups are properly informed and engaged within an
    appropriate "third-party" monitoring system.

64.      The IRFF Anti Corruption Action Plan has six key elements, each o f which i s briefly discussed
below. An additional element focusing on effective involvement o f local parliaments at BRR's request i s
also included.

65.      Disclosure of information. To encourage healthy competition between bidders, the PMU, with
advice from the S A K and the Ethics Team, will ensure that information concerning all contracts as well as
full audit and progress reports o f subprojects is widely circulated. This will be done using established
procedures (e.g., advertisements in newspapers, BRR's website www.e-aceh-nias.org, development-
related newsletters), enhancing with additional measures when possible.           To avoid misinformation
circulating about the project, the P M Uwill ensure that groups interested inindividual subprojects are kept
up to date with progress during the procurement and implementation phases, inter alia by using an
electronic mailing list and by sending information directly to key distribution hubs, such as NGO fora.
The project will also use Public Accountability Meetings, hosted by the local government, to provide an



24This team would greatly benefit from having access to a fulltime Advisor on operational aspects, including the
MDFand government disbursement, procurementand financial managementguidelines.


                                                     18

opportunity for civil society to hear about the subprojects from related contractors and consultants in
person at the beginning,middle and end o f each subproject.

66.       Civil society oversight.To broaden informal oversight coverage and further reduce the problems
related to misinformation, the P M U will ensure that socialization o f civil society oversight begins as soon
as possible, so that civil society becomes aware o f any forthcoming biddingand so that local governments
can see that BRR fosters coordination with key external groups. These groups will include NGOs,
religious groups, local parliament and higher education institutions. Both o f the latter institutions should
be encouraged to send representatives to witness the procurement process and comment on progress.
Public Accountability Meetings briefly discussed above will be used to engage with civil society groups,
where participants can hear about subproject(s), including information on contracts and progress, and
pose questions concerning, inter alia: timing, finance and quality issues. During subproject preparation,
BRR, with assistance from the IPMand the EthicsTeam, will develop plans for achieving effective third-
party monitoring o f procurement and implementation.

67.       Collusion mitigation. Special attention will be given to the planning and preparation o f
procurement processes, as this may entail very different package types and sizes, different levels o f
responsibility (e.g. shared between BRR and local governments), and different local capacities interms o f
process management and oversight (internal and external). As mentioned above, BRR will encourage
representatives from civil society and, where possible, local parliament to act as observers o f the key
stages in procurement. The Ethics Team and the `SAK will be fully consulted concerning the methods to
be used for each location. At a minimum, the measures outlined in the procurement and financial
management sections o f the PIP must be closely followed at each stage and any deviation from the agreed
rules must be carefully investigated with appropriate sanctions strictly applied.

68.       Mitigation of forgery and fraud. Forgery and fraud risks will be minimized by adherence to
fiduciary management practices. Measures undertaken will include strict payment validation procedures
that will be rigorously enforced. Project filinghookkeeping will be tightly controlled and subject to strict
reviews. Internal and external audits will be held to ensure that fiduciary management i s in accordance
with the agreed procedures. Special attention will be given to aspects that have proven vulnerable in
previous projects, such as "soft" categories like training, workshops and information dissemination.
Internal audits will be carried out by BRR, and external audits by the Supreme Audit Board (BPK), which
may outsource the task to a professional and reputed audit company acceptable to the Bank. IPM
consultants will assist BRR in supervisory work, including routine and ad hoc reviews o f other contracts,
etc.

69.       Complaints handling. A sufficiently independent and credible system for handling complaints is
already available within the BFUthat feeds into the S A K . The P M U will make full use o f this system
throughout the life o f the program. The overall approach o f the project i s to support the S A K as an
independent unit within the BRR, to carry out most anti-corruption activities for IREP/IRFF.To enhance
S A K ' s capacity, the IPM consultants have staff to support the SAK. However, S A K will continue to
report directly to the BRR, and not the PMU, to maintain the integrity o f the unit.

70.       Remedies and sanctions. To the extent that this project will finance several individual
infrastructure subprojects in an environment o f weak institutions and local government capacity, there
may be several cases o f abuse during the implementation phase. The BRR will follow up on each case
appropriately, taking into consideration the size and nature o f the case as well as the level o f evidence
available. BRR may use its own sanctioning regime which includes blacklisting o f companies.
Depending on the case, sanctions may be imposed by on individual offenders, companies or other entities.
If necessary, the BRR Anti-conuption Unit will activate and monitor the referral system to external
authorities (e.g., the police/KPK) to gauge if legal and/or administrative sanctions are being effectively


                                                     19

applied. The P M U will ensure that proven cases o f corruption get highpublicity so that they will act as a
social ("name and shame") deterrent.

71.      Effective involvement of the Local Padament.The P M U will ensure that the local parliament
(DPRD) i s actively involved from the beginning by insisting that they are properly involved in the
strategic planning stage. It will also invite representatives from the relevant commission to observe the
procurement process on the condition that conflict o f interests i s avoided. Later on, the PMU will ensure
that DPRD are invited through relevant commission to all Accountability Meetings.             All o f these
activities will require inputsfrom the Ethics Team and the IPM.

X.       INFRASTRUCTURESUBPROJECT PIPELINE

72.      The BRR has formulated a phased infrastructure program to reconstruct and provide essential
economic services for Aceh and Nias. Several o f the key multilateral and bilateral agencies, donors, and
NGOs have been involved in supporting infrastructure reconstruction - the former involved in some o f
the larger-scale items, and the latter supporting housing reconstruction and social facility reconstruction.
An initial pipeline o f prioritized infrastructure programs and projects has been prepared by BRR for
financing by different sources. Projects in the pipeline cover the ports and harbors, sea defense and
macro-drainage, roads and transportation, water supply, sanitation and solid waste management, and
urban and town essential municipal services sectors. Some o f these projects may be potential candidates
for MDF/BRR funding under IRFF. Criteria to select subprojects to receive funding under IRFF are set
out in detail inAnnex 4. The complete list o f projects inthe initial pipeline prepared by BRR i s presented
inAnnex 11.

XI.      TRANSITION STRATEGYAND SUSTAINABILITY

73.      Rebuilding infrastructure inAceh and Nias so as to reverse the destruction caused by the tsunami,
compensate for the under-development caused by years o f political strife and unlock the medium to long
term development potential of the province i s a task o f enormous magnitude. The risk that the efforts
now underway might prove unsustainable i s substantial. Compounding this risk i s the expiration o f
BRR's mandate scheduled for April 2009, beyond which local and provincial governments will need to
undertake greater responsibility for infrastructure reconstruction program management. BRR's exit in
April 2009 and the need for new institutional arrangements to facilitate continued progress in
infrastructure reconstruction require a well conceived transition strategy to prepare local and provincial
governments for the post-BRR period. A number o f steps in the context o f both the R E P and the IRFF
are being undertaken to ensure the sustainability o f the reconstruction program for Aceh and Nias and to
facilitate the transition o f local and provincial governments beyond BRR's mandate. Each o f these i s
briefly discussed below. Details about the efforts to enhance the sustainability o f the infrastructure
reconstruction program are provided inAnnex 10.

74.      Technical assistance. Both REP and IRFF include TA components that emphasize hands-on
training o f local government technical departments as well as o f BRR staff. Such TA i s an important tool
that will contribute to ensure the quality o f infrastructure subprojects undertaken during BRR's mandate
and to prepare local authorities for the post-BRR era. These capacity building efforts will cover all
aspects o f subproject selection and implementation, including subproject selection, preparing detailed
design and tender documents safeguards compliance, procurement, subproject supervision, training for
handover o f databases and other development monitoring tools, anti-corruption measures and
infrastructure asset maintenance.

75.      Ownership. Steps will be taken to ensure that local governments develop a sense o f ownership
with respect to the infrastructure assets financed by BRR. For example, infrastructure investment plans


                                                      20

that include subprojects to be financed by BRR/MDFresources as well as by local governments and other
agencies will be developed through the Joint Secretariats by the local government themselves with
support from BRR staff and in coordination with other relevant stakeholders. Once subprojects are
selected and approved by BRR central for funding by B W D F , project teams will be formed at the
local government level to start subproject preparation. The key members o f these project teams - in
particular the satkers who manage subprojects - will generally be local government staff. In addition,
BRR will undertake, with the help o f IREP consultants, an assessment o f local governments' capacity
with a view to progressively transfer implementationresponsibilities, including procurement and financial
management, to those local governments able to carry out such responsibilities. The capacity building
measures mentioned above are designed to enable transferring increasing levels o f responsibilities to local
governments over time.

76.      Buildinginstitutionalcapacity. The ovel-all incentive framework under which local government
officials operate in the context o f IRFF i s geared toward building lasting institutional capacity. For
example, making IRFF resources available to finance well prepared local infrastructure subprojects i s
expected to prompt local governments to improve their ability to select and prepare such subprojects so as
to gain access to IRFF financing. During the IRFF cycle, it i s anticipated that local governments will
share some o f the implementation responsibilities (procurement, financial management, etc) of IREP TA.
This will be detemined on a case-by-case basis after capacity assessments are conducted by IPMand the
district/provincial based IREPTA, and with NOL from the Bank. Inaddition, a transition strategy - to be
developed with the help o f IREP consultants to help local governments prepare for the post-BRR period -
will propose institutional mechanisms aimed at facilitating exchanges o f experience between all Aceh and
Nias local governments involved ininfrastructure reconstruction and development.

77.      Post-BRR arrangements.The capacity buildingmeasures described above are designed to help
local governments work together with BRR to select, design and implement high quality infrastructure
subprojects, and will help local governments implement infrastructure development programs on their
own after the end o f BRR's mandate. Additional measures are specifically designed to ease the transition
to the post-BRR period. For example, BRR with support from IREP consultants will develop institutional
mechanisms, by June 2008 at the latest, for the post April 2009 period when its mandate i s scheduled to
expire. Inaddition, unallocated funds under IRFF are currently held in reserve to be used, for example, to
extend the TA carried out under IREPbeyond June 2009 if it proves desirable.

XII. RISKS

78.      Table 2 below outlines critical risks to the project, as well as proposed mitigation measures to be
taken to minimize these risks.

                       Table 2 -Criticalrisks and proposedmitigationmeasures

         RISK           RATING                             MITIGATION                           RATING
                                                                                                AFTER
                                                                                              MITIGATION
 Misuseof and failure       H        Outsourcingof accounting and reporting functions.            M
 to account for                      Public disclosure of audit report and anti-corruption
 projectfunds                        initiatives as outlined inthe Anti-cormption Action Plan.
 Ineffectiveaudit           H        Inclusions of an independentaudit as part of the FM          M
 functions                           component.FM-consultants apply professionalbest
                                    practicesto implementation.




                                                        21

Politicalinvolvement    S  Anindependent financial managementteam will be               M
in funds flow process      supplied as part o f the I P M team to monitor fiduciary

Lack of involvement     S  The Infrastructure Board o f BRR will be engaged to          M
and support of key         ensure the appropriate commitment o f BRR and the
governmentagencies         relevant LGs.
Inadequatecapacity      S  TA consultants will provide the required capacity. BRR       M
of the executing           will establish a P M U staffed by experiencedtechnical
agency                     staff, administrative staff, procurement and financial
                           management staff/accountants.
Limitedavailability    M   All consultants will be procured usingstandard Bank          N
of foreign and local       procedures. Maximum coverage will be given to
TA consultants              advertisements requesting interest from consultants.
Consultant teams do     S  Use o f procurement advisors will ensure good quality        M
not meet                    consultants are selected. The Bank will support BRR in
performance                 closely monitoring performance o f consultants through
requirements                intensive supervision. The TORSo f the consultants have
                            clauses included that mandate replacement o f
                           underperfonning staff; also as part o f the contract,
                            consultants must sign an integrity clause.
Localgovernments       H   Iflocalgovernments are unable to mobilize fundingto            S
unable to supply co-        co-finance land acquisition for infrastructure works,
financing for              BRR willprovide the additional financing.
compensationof land
acquisition
Weak procurement       H   All packages funded on a retroactive basis will be             S
environment and             subject to prior review. To ensure transparency inthe
collusive practicesin      procurement process, enhanced procurement procedures
past projects              are included inthe Anti-Comption Action Plan.
                           Procurement trstining activities and a capacity
                           assessment will also be conducted with local and
                           provincial governments with I P M assistance.
Low capacity of local  H   The project will create incentives for active participation    S
and provincial             o f local andprovincial government staff by increasing
governmentsto              their ability to manage subprojects through capacity
provideexperienced,        buildingactivities for subproject selection and
qualified staff to         management.
work with consultant
teams
Low capacityof the     H   The project design includes significant institutional          S
local governmentsto        strengthening to promote sustainable management,
operate, and               operations, and maintenance by the P U staff.
maintainnewhebuilt
infrastructure
Infrastructure          S  Improved bid documents and tightened control o f             M
contractswill not be       quantities and quality by consultants.
executedto
standardsand costs
as designed




                                              22

 All subprojects           H       TA provided under IREP will facilitate adequate pace o f      S
 financed by IRFF                  implementation o f IRFF-financed subprojects by
 will not be fully                 supporting subpJoject identification, preparation,
 implementedby the                 implementation and construction supervision. In
 time the project                  addition, the following provisions aim to achieve timely
 closes inJune 2010                completion o f IRFF-financed subprojects: (i)
                                   development o f a transition strategy detailing post-BRR
                                   institutional arrangements agreed by GO1and the Bank
                                   byJune 2008; (ii)   provision o f finds by IRFF to extend
                                   TA under IREP after IREP closes inJune 2009; and (iii)
                                   restructuring o f IRFFafter January 2010 to find
                                   expenditures related to IRFF-financedsubprojects along
                                   the post-BRR institutional arrangements outlined inthe
                                   transition strategy.
 Transition of             H       IREP is designed to help build capacity o f local and         S
 responsibilityto local            provincial government staff to bring about
 and provincial                    improvements inthe planning and maintenance o f
 governmentsfor                    infrastructure. The consultants will gradually shift
 maintenanceof                     responsibility to local government staff to manage
 infrastructure proves             infrastructure subprojects during the course of
 unsustainableafter                IREPARFF. Steps will be taken to ensure that local
 BRR's mandate ends                governments develop a sense o f ownership with respect
                                   to the infrastructure assets financed by BRR.BWGOI,
                                   with support from IREP consultants, will develop a
                                   transition strategy detailing post-BRR institutional
                                   arrangements agreed by GO1and the Bank by June
                                   2008. IRFFwill finance TA, as and when needed, to
                                   support local and provincial governments transition to
                                   the new post-BRR institutional arrangements.
 Capacity of the Bank      S       It is expected that IRFFwill finance 100to 200               M
 to meet its                       subprojects a c r w several infrastructure subsectors over
 responsibilitieswith              the duration o f the project. Each o f these will require
 respectto review and              Bank review o f procurement, financial management, and
 supervisionof                     safeguards and anti-corruption measures, as well as their
 subprojects                       respective technical reviews. Inaddition, the Bank will
                                   be required to monitor the quality o f design and
                                   implementation. The Bank will assess its staffing needs
                                   and allocate adequate resources to ensure the
                                   constitution o f a strong team that can shoulder its
                                   responsibilities towards subprojects financed.
 OVERALLRISK               H                                                                     S
 LEVEL
RiskRating- H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk), M(Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)

XIII. MONITORING EVALUATION
                    AND

79.     Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of IRFF projects will be carried out by REP district and
provincial level TA, and coordinated by IPMconsultants. The M&E framework will be developed by the
IPMconsultants and reviewed by the Bank duriiig supervision. Each subproject proposal will include
monitoringindicators and data collection indicators. The framework will include roles and responsibilities




                                                      23

o f the PMUand REP consultants. M&E for safeguards will be conducted under the same framework, and
will be overseenby the IPMsafeguards c~ordinato?~.

XIV. BANK REVIEW AND SUPERVISION

 80.     The proposed IRFF i s structured as a programmatic operation, with multiple subprojects being
prepared, implemented and their construction supervised over the next three years26.The Bank, as partner
agency under the MDF legal framework, will be responsible for project supervision of the project on
behalf o f the MDF. In such capacity, the Bank will have the following review and supervision functions
duringimplementation o fIRFF:

 8 1.    Finalizationof Project1mplementation.Plan(PIP). The PIP will guide project implementation
and will list all project-related policies and procedures. The PIP will contain, among other things, specific
accounting and reporting procedures for all organizations involved inproject implementation, preparation
o f Interim Financial Reports (IFRs), and details o f procurement, environmental and safeguards
compliance procedures. Inaddition, the document will include details o f the eligibility criteria formulated
by IPM consultants that will help identify subprojects to be financed by IRFF. A draft o f the PIP was
agreed with the Bank prior to negotiations. Any further changes to the PIP will be made in agreement
with the Bank.

82.      Interim Financial Reports (IFRs). During implementation, Bank staff will review IFRs each
quarter to assess financial management, procurement, and physical progress made in the preceding
quarter as well as agree with the procurement plan o f the forthcoming quarter. This procurement plan will
include subprojects to be undertaken in the next quarter along with the rationale for their inclusion.
Quarterly IFRs should be received by the Bank no later than 30 days after the each o f each quarter. To
facilitate project supervision, the Bank will schedule its supervision missions in line with the submission
o f the IFRs.The format o f the IFRs will be agreed by BRR and the Bank at negotiations.

83.      Procurement review. Duringimplementation, Bank staff will review and monitor procurement
in IRFF subprojects through the following: (i)PM will support BRR and provincial governments in
carrying procurement for the first 12 months, and inparallel, assess the procurement capacity at the local
government level to determine the current benchmark, develop this capacity through training programs,
and facilitate a gradual transfer o f procurement responsibilities to the local governments. BRR may
delegate procurement responsibilities to local governments during implementation in agreement with the
Bank; and (ii)   as displayed in the procurement arrangement details in Annex 6 detailing the Procurement
Plan and Assessment, all TA contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank. As mentioned above,
the Bank will review procurement over the preceding quarter as well as the procurement plan for the
forthcoming quarter submitted along with quarterly IFRs. In addition to the regular prior review
supervision and a review o f quarterly IFRs to be carried out from Bank offices, annual supervision
missions will visit the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions on a yearly basis.

84.      Environmentalreview. An environmental and social safeguards framework was agreed to at
appraisal, and i s outlined in Annex 8. Formal Bank review will be required at three stages: (i)completion


25 IWF documents will include a covenant for the BRR to submit, within six months o f I P M mobilization, a draft
M&Eframework to the Bank for review.
26 Although I W F ' s implementation period is January 2007-January 2010, the disbursement schedule will span two
and a half years between January 2007-June 2009, to be coterminous with the currently scheduled completion o f
BRR's mandate. If subprojects are not completed by June 2009, they can be financed by IRFFtill June 2010 (when
the project is scheduled to close) in line with post-BRR institutional arrangements, detailed ina transition strategy to
be prepared by June 2008, and agreed by GO1and the Bank.


                                                          24

o f required environmental and social studies (AMDALs, UKL/UPL and LARAP) during sub-project
preparation; (ii)integration of study results into DD/TDs prior to sub-project approval; and (iii)
completion o f land acquisition and resettlement monitoring form prior to contracting o f work. During
construction supervision, the Bank will receive bi-annual monitoring reports covering environmental and
safeguards issues.

85.     Anti-corruption.The Anti-corruption Action Plan will be part o f the PIP prepared by BRR and
agreed with the Bank prior to negotiation. During implementation, Bank staff will monitor the six
elements o f the anti-corruption action plan (elaborated in Annex 9). Aide Memoirs will clearly state
progress inrelation to the Anti-Corruption Action Plan. Any changes to the Anti-Corruption Action Plan
will be made in agreement with the Bank. Bank supervision may be enhanced by support from an
External Supervision Team (EST), which advises the Bank's internal Anti-Corruption committee for
Indonesia inrelation to infrastructure development, to help identify the risks o f fraud and corruption at an
early stage, and bring these to the attention o f the Bank and Government institutions for further
processing. In particular, the EST may aid Bank supervision by identifying and tracking indicators o f
corruption, and cawing out subproject site checks at strategic times between formal supervision
missions. The EST may also assist the Bank's supervision team in designing complaint handling
processes as well as mechanisms for coordination with other institutions including BPK and SAK. These
inputs inno way reduce the need for the BRR to monitor the project implementation through the agreed
mechanisms. BRR will regularly share with the Bank the findings o f technical and financial audits, to be
held during (interimaudits) and after (post audits) each year for a significant sample o f subprojects. The
BRR will also ensure that any suspected cases o f corruption related to this project be reported
immediately to the Bank.

XV.     POLICY EXCEPTIONS READINESS
                                AND

86.     Grant conditions and covenants. Standard World Bank conditions and covenants apply. The
following action(s) will be taken prior to disbursement:
        Mobilization o f FMConsulting Firmsto support BRR-financed infrastructure projects

87.     In addition to standard implementation actions, the following actions will be taken during
implementation and will be reflectedinthe Grant Agreement:
        Finalizationof PIP. BRRwill reviewhevisethe PIP at least once every six months with the IPM
        consultants, the first such review to be completed by two months after the date o f mobilization by
        the I P MConsultants.
        Approval of Subprojects. BRR will submit a quarterly list o fproposed subprojects and supporting
        documentation to the Bank, for review by no later than each January 31, April 30, July 31 and
        October 31ineach year    ,
        Transition to post-BRR phase beyond April 2009. BWGOI will submit a draft transition
        strategy to the Bank by June 30, 2008 for its review and comments and will submit the final
        transition strategy to the Bank by September 30,2008.
        Subproject Financing.GO1will ensure that adequate financing and institutional support will be
        provided to complete projects beyond the scheduled expiration o fBRR's mandate inApril 2009.
        Audit Arrangements. BRR will appoint BPK as external auditor for this project and BPK may
        sub-contract work to private audit firms acceptable to the Bank; such contracts should be
        completed no later than 6 months after signing o f the Grant Agreement.




                                                    25

                                            ANNEX1.PROJECTSRESULTSSUMMARY


Project Intervention       Verifiable Indicators of             Means of Verification          Assumptions
Logic                      Achievement




infrastructure was damag Iby the tsunami of 2004 and the st sequent earthquake.
Result 1. Infrastructure   Proposalsof infrastructure           Reportingby IPM, West Coast,      Performance indicatorsof
subprojects financedby     subprojects financedby IRFF          NorthCoast andNias                subprojects financedby IRFF
IRFF respondto the         will include a set of indicators                                       adequately capture the
post-tsunami               that will beusedto measure           performanceindicators2
                                                                consultant teams on subProject
                                                                                         .        performanceof their respective
infrastructureneeds of     performanceduring subproject                                           subprojects.
communitiesin 12local      implementationandafter               Annual audit of IREP's
governmentsidistricts      subprojectcompletion.                technicalassistance, confirms     BRRhas information'onall
specifiedinAceh and                                             that data onperformance           infrastructure reconstruction
Nias.                      Infrastructure subprojects           indicatorshas beengathered,       programsbeingplannedand
                           financedby IRFF, after the           and validates the data on 10-     implementedas well as needs of
                           infrastructuredevelopment            15% of completedsubprojects.      communities inAceh andNias.
                           strategy i s drafted - with thehelp
                           of IPM consultants, to reflect the   IPM consultants will report the   Survey instrumentdeveloped
                           priorities laid out therein.         results of the comprehensive      adequately captures the
                                                                survey assessing the state of     contribution of subprojects
                           A comprehensive survey               infrastructure service delivery   financedby IRFFto the state of
                           designedto assess the state of       inthe 12districtsofAceh and       infrastructureservice delivery in
                           infrastructure service delivery in Nias benefiting from IRFF at        the 12 districtsofAceh andNias
                           the 12 districts of Aceh andNias     the beginning and at the end o f  benefiting fiom IRFF.
                           benefiting from IRFF financing       IRFF.
                           o f individual subprojects will be
                           conducted at the beginningand        IPMand BRRwill monitor the
                           at the end o f IRFF.                 progressofinfrastructure
                                                                subprojectsusingthe MIS
                                                                system.
Result 2. Infrastructure   Technicaldesigns of                  Regular reportingby IPM, West     Local andprovincial governments
subprojects financedby     infrastructuresubprojects are        Coast, NorthCoast, andNias        work closely with IREP
IRFF are heldto high       sound and appropriate.               consultant teams financedby       consultantteams to preparetheir
quality standards.                                              IREP to monitor quality of        LGIPs and PGIPs, respectively.
                           Implementationof infrastructure      designs and implementation
                           subprojects financedby IRFF is       createdat the district and        Local andprovincial governments
                           adequately supervised.               provincial levels.                work closely with IREP
                                                                                                  consultantteams during
                                                                Satisfactoryspot checks (Le.,     supervisionof subproject
                                                                un-announcedinspectionof          implementation.
                                                                work; undertakeninthis project
                                                                to monitor progressof
                                                                approximately 10%-15% of
                                                                subprojects beingprepared) of
                                                                technical designs and
                                                                implementationby IPM


        27 IRFF will finance consultants' activities relating to implementation, construction supervision, and performance
        monitoring after IREP's scheduledcompletioninJune 2009.


                                                                  26

                                                             consultants during subproject
                                                             appraisal.
Result 3. Infrastructure   Proper financial and safeguards   Regular reporting by IPM, West   Local and provincialgovernments
subprojects financedby     measures are integrated into the  Coast, NorthCoast and Nias       work closely with IREP
IRFFare financially,       preparation o f infrastructure    consultant teams financed by     consultant teams to prepare their
socially and               subprojects financed by IRFF.     IREP to monitor quality o f      LGIPs and PGIPs, respectively.
environmentally                                              designs created at the district
sustainable.                                                 and provincial levels.

                                                             Satisfactory spot checks (i.e.,
                                                             unannouncedinspection o f
                                                             work; undertakeninthis project
                                                             to monitor progress o f
                                                             approximately 10%-15%o f
                                                             Subprojects being prepared) o f
                                                             financial sustainability and
                                                             safeguards documentationby
                                                             I P M consultants during
                                                             subproject appraisal.
Result4. Financial         Performance and financial audit   External audit reports will be   Local and provincialgovernments
management o f             reports (inaddition to external   subject to a performance and     assign appropriate staffing as a
infrastructure             audits financed under IREP) o f   financial audit by Supreme       long-term commitment.
subprojects financed by    financial statements o f          Audit Institution(BPK) which
IRFFis strengthened.       infrastructure subprojects        may sub-contract this work to a  Relevant government staff,
                           financed by IRFF are prepared.    reputable auditor acceptable to  participate intraining programs
                                                             the Bank.                        offered by BRR and consultants.
Result5.                   Maintenance o f infrastructure    Regular reporting by IPM, West   Local and provincial governments
Locallprovincial           subprojects reflects asset        Coast, North Coast and Nias      actively participate insubproject
government capacity in     maintenance strategies            consultant teams financed by     planning and implementation,
infrastructure subproject  developed by IPMIIREP             IREP to monitor subproject       developing asset maintenance
planning,                  consultants.                      implementation, including that   strategies, and designing
implementation, and                                          o f asset maintenance strategies institutional mechanisms to
supervision i s sustained. [PMIIREP consultants design       developed.                       sustain financial and subproject
                           institutional mechanisms                                           implementation after the
                           according to locallprovincial     Regular reporting by IPM, West   completion o f BRR's mandate.
                           government capacity to sustain    Coast, NorthCoast and Nias
                           subproject implementation and     consultant teams financed by
                           supervision responsibilities o f  IREP monitor adoption
                           BRR after the completion o f its  ofladherence to institutional
                           mandate.                          mechanisms designed to sustain
                                                             financial and subproject
                                                             implementation after the
                                                             completion o f BRR's mandate.




                                                               27

                           ANNEX2. DETAILED      PROJECT    DESCRIPTION


The proposed IRFF will finance strategic infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation
subprojects in the province o f Aceh and infrastructure subprojects in 12 local governments in
Aceh and Nias to extend key infrastructure 'services in communities where infrastructure was
damaged by the tsunami o f 2004 and the subsequent earthquake. Inaddition, IRFF will provide
targeted and need-based support to provincial and local governments for infrastructure subproject
planning, design, supervision as well as for enhancing the quality o f project implementation
oversight. IRFF will also finance, as and when needed, TA to continue supporting the
implementation and construction supervision o f subprojects financed by IRFF after IREP's
completion, as well as to help local and provincial governments transition to post-BRR
institutional arrangements after April 2009 and undertake greater responsibility o f infrastructure
program management in a post-BRR era.           .

The proposed project includes the two main components described below.

A.       Component 1: Financing of Infrastructure Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
Investments(US$273.0 million)

This component will finance individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local
governments - 9"      o f which are benefiting from IREP TA, and 329 o f which are receiving
technical advice from existing consulting arrangements untilJanuary 2007, but will cease to do so
thereafter - as well as strategic investments at the provincial level. Each individual infrastructure
subproject will be co-financed by BRR and MDF resources according to a 70:30 ratio. In
exceptional circumstances, other ratios may be considered by the Bank and BRR. Local and
provincial governments, with support from BRR and IREP consultants will prepare Local
Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs), and Provincial Government Annual Investment
Plans (PGIPs) inwhich prioritized local investment needs will be grounded. This component will
fundsome o fthe infrastructure subprojects contained inthe LGIPsand PGIPs.To avoid delays in
making progress on the 2007 investment, IREP-financed PM consultants will review the
subprojects already under preparation by BRR.and other donors and identify subprojects for IRFF
financing. A discussion o f subprojects under preparation, and the list o f subprojects in the initial
pipeline prepared by BRR i s presented in Annex 11. All subprojects financed by IRFF will be
required to meet eligibility criteria based on sector and geographic location, technical, economic
and financial criteria, and environmental safeguards. In order to provide adequate time to
complete IRFF-financed subprojects by the scheduled completion date o f January 2010, BRR
plans to complete the allocation o f US$273 million to approved IRFF subprojects by April 30,
2008.

This component will provide resources for civil works and goods in subprojects inthe following
sectors: roads, ports, water and sanitation, drainage, flood control, coastal protection and
restoration o f major irrigation canals. In general terms, the investments financed would be
representative o f standard infrastructure investments for the included sectors and would focus on
the reconstruction and rehabilitation o f existing infrastructure and the construction o f new
investments inlimited cases. Typical works to be financed under the project would include:



28Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barai Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil, and Simueleu inthe
West Coast and Nias and Nias Selatan inNias.
29Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, and Sabang.


                                                 28

         Inthe roads sector, primarily improvements and reconstruction of existing roadways,
         including paving and widening, safety-related rerouting, regarding, and improvements in
         road quality. Roads to be financed would generally be provincial and kabupaten-level
         roads.
         In the ports sector, reconstruction and improvements for ferryboat, cargo, and passenger
         ports, including existing and tsunamilaffected quays, the construction and rehabilitation
         o f berthing areas for cargo vessels, ferryboat and passenger terminals, dredging and land
         reclamation activities as appropriate, and investments to improve multimodal transport
         interfaces at cargo ports.
         For water and sanitation, primarily intake and retention infrastructure, the expansion and
         rehabilitation o f water treatment facilities, primary and secondary water supply networks,
         including storage facilities, and sewer network rehabilitation and expansion (primarily
         main collectors and pumping stations);
         For drainage and flood control, primarily the rehabilitation and expansion o f drainage
         networks and small retention works, including earthen and concrete dykes. Investment
         subprojects would likely include main drainage and secondary networks, manholes and
         junctures, and installedpumping stations and related equipment.
         Coastal urotection investments including the construction and rehabilitation o f seawalls
         and underwater defensive infrastructure and activities to restore coastal areas including
         dredging and sand replenishment along vulnerable coastlines;
         Irrigation sector investments, in general limited to the reconstruction, rehabilitation, and
         improvement o f provincial- and kabupaten-level primary irrigation canals at pumping
         infrastructure and equipment.

As mentioned above, this component will finance individual subprojects that meet eligibility
criteria based on sector and geographic location, technical, economic and financial criteria, and
environmental safeguards. These criteria will be published by BRR at the outset o f the planning
process. In addition, regional offices o f BRR will develop region-specific criteria to guide the
prioritization o f infrastructure investments in their respective regions. Details o f these criteria are
provided inAnnex 4.

Joint Secretariats will be established in each o f the 12 project districts and will comprise
representatives from local governments and representatives from BRR. The Joint Secretariats,
assisted by REP consultants, will facilitate a mechanism o f coordination and consultation among
multiple stakeholders, including the local governments, BRR, donors, and NGOs in the planning
process and identify individual subprojects to be potentially co-financed by IRFF using
BFWMDF resources. The PMU, located in the BRR central office, will review this list and
confirm BFWMDF financing for subprojects on the basis o f the eligibility criteria to receive
BFWMDF funding, the budget available and after balancing conflicting geographic and sectoral
interests. The details o f the IRFF project cycle and the institutional mechanisms through which
individual subprojects are selected for IRFFfinancing are discussed inAnnex 3.

B.       Component 2: Targeted Support to Infrastructure Subproject Planning, Design,
Supervision,andImplementation Oversight(US$3.0 million)

This component will provide targeted andneed-based TA to local and provincial governments for
identification, design and preparation o f infrastructure reconstruction subprojects, including
financing TA for transition to a post-BRR timeframe, as well as for enhancing the quality o f
project implementation oversight.




                                                    29

This component will provide TA to Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang that are currently
receiving technical support from existing consulting arrangements for subproject identification
and design until January 2007, beyond this timeframe. This component aims at strengthening the
ability o f the Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang local governments - collectively known as the
North Coast logistical area - to improve the provision o f infrastructure in their respective
jurisdictions by providing technical experts to assist them in planning and subproject
identification, subproject design, tender documents, procurement, safeguards compliance,
implementation, construction supervision, and monitoring. It will build on the on-going work
supported by the French government (scheduled to end in January 2007) that has focused
primarily on designing and rebuilding the village level infrastructure in heavily impacted areas in
Banda Aceh. The North Coast TA will be a key building block o f the BRR's reconstruction
program to (i)    coordinate and implement district and provincial level infrastructure in the three
districts; (ii)fillthe voidinlocalgovernment capacitybuildingTA; (iii)improvedonorandNGO
coordination in these areas, particularly in harmonizing the housing and infrastructure works; and
(iv) ensure the design work at the village level (conducted by existing consultant arrangements
financed by the French government) i s implemented to quality standards. This component will
also finance TA for transition to a post-BRR timeframe and institutional arrangements beyond
June 2009, including extension o f TA provided under IREP, and capacity building and
infrastructure asset maintenance programs for local and provincial governments.

In order to enhance the quality of subproject implementation oversight, IRFF will support
undertaking performance and financial audit o f the project financial statements carried by the
country's Supreme Audit Institution (BPK), which may sub-contract this work to a reputable
auditor acceptable to the Bank. Ideally, the auditor should visit all kabupaten that implement the
project activities. The related external audit cost will be included inthis project component.

Unallocated funds (US$l5.0 million). Inorder to mitigate uncertainty in the implementation o f
this project, a portion o f the project funds is not allocated to any specific component. These
unallocatedresources may be used for one or more o f the following: (i)extending REP TA (a)
beyond June 2009 to continue supporting the implementation, construction supervision and
performance monitoring o f subprojects financed by IRFF, and (b) to support BRR's mandate o f
supervision, performance monitoring and quality assurance o f the infrastructure reconstruction
program; (ii)financing TA activities necessary to help local and provincial governments prepare
for the transition to a post-BRR era by undertaking greater responsibility o f infrastructure
program management based on the IREP-financed BRR transition strategy, detailing institutional
arrangements beyond the scheduled expiration o f BRR's mandate agreed by GO1and the Bank by
June 2008, and regional economic development strategy3'; and (iii)financing additional
subprojects inthe event the implementation o f all subprojects proceeds as planned.




30IREPwill finance a regional economic development strategy for Aceh and Nias to re-orient infrastructure
policy from infrastructure reconstruction to rehabilitation of livelihoods and sustained economic growth by
conceptualizing Aceh's long term development needs and identifying the strategic priorities to address
them. This economic development strategy will inform the transition strategy being prepared by BRR
(supported by REP) that will articulate the actions to be taken to help local governments prepare for a
post-BRR environment, including capacity building programs for local and provincial governments,
maintenance by local governments o f BRR-financed infrastructure assets, institutional arrangements for the
post-BRR period, and potential support o f the international development community to infrastructure
development for the post-BRR period.


                                                     30

          ANNEX3. INSTITUTIONAL DESIGN          AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS



A.       Introduction

To ensure smooth execution o f project components, it i s important to devise a clear, transparent
structure for reporting on progress, outcomes; and challenges to the program. IRFF will use the
management structure and institutional arrangements set up for IREP. BRR has established a
Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate and oversee day-to-day implementation o f the
IREP TA. This same PMUwill be responsible to manage and coordinate day-to-day functioning
o f the IRFF, including design, procurement practices, safeguard policies, financial management,
and supervision o f the subprojects financed by the Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing
Facility (IRFF). This annex explains how the proposed IRFF will work in the context o f the BRR
structure - through management o f the BRR Infrastructure Board, the P M U and the establishment
o f Joint Secretariats (JSs) - to support .provincial and local governments in financing
infrastructure subprojects in 12 local governments inAceh and Nias.

B.       InstitutionalSupport to InfrastructureReconstruction

IREP i s providing direct support to BRR in the form o f an Infrastructure Program
Management(IPM) team and financial management advisors, as well as by mobilizingtechnical
teams to work closely with the local governments in Aceh and Nias. Under IREP, BRR has
established a Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate and oversee day-to-day
implementation o f the TA at the macro level, which includes management o f the JPM team,
donor coordination, procurement practices, safeguards policies, fiduciary management o f BRR
investments, monitoring o f project progress, and the development o f a strategic infrastructure
reconstruction plan covering Aceh and Nias. BRR has appointed the Deputy o f Infrastructure as
Chief o f the PMU, who will also serve as Task Leader o f the IPM team. The Chief Operating
Officer (COO) at BRR will oversee the activities o f IRFF.

The P M U will consist o f Directors o f relevant BRR programs inthe following thematic areas: the
Chief o f the PMUSecretariat, Funding, Communication, Water Resources and Energy, Water and
Sanitation, Nias Representative, and Roads a i d Bridges. Sitting within the PMUwill be an IREP
Secretariat,responsible for daily work to support the functions o f the PMU.The IPMteam will
support the Secretariat. A full-time Chief o f PMU Secretariat has been appointed to administer
the Secretariat work program and staff. BRR will be responsible for equipping the Secretariat
with qualified personnel and support staff. Also working within the PMU will be an REP
Procurement Support Team that will be staffed by BRR and supplemented by procurement staff
from the IPM team. As part o f its work program, the Procurement Support team will manage
procurement o f works related to individual infrastructure subprojects under IRFF and will train
local and provincial government staff on procurement practices and policies under the project.
The chart below highlightsthe PMU structure.




                                                  31

     - -              -

    clnfrastructu                                    Chief of
                                                       DeputyInfrastructure                 * Director PMU Secretariat
                                                                                            IREP
     Management
     Progra            ' -   _ _ .

                                                     * ProjectManagerfor                      Project staff from all
     Consultan                                         IPM consultants                       infrastructuredirectors
    t                  J                                                                     (appointed)

                                                                       1
     I
       Directorof Water     BRR Nlas            Directorof Public       Chief of Finance and         Procurement
       Resources& Energy    Representative      Facilities              Planning                    SupportTeam
       *Task Leader for     *Task Leader        'Task Leader               Director of Finance      *for investment
        West Coast            for Nias           for Strategic Infra    ** Task LEaderfor           1 phase
        (appointed)           (appointed)        Consultants               FM Consultant            (to be appointed)
                                                                          (not appointed)

                I                    I                     I                      I
                I                    I                     I




         West Coast
         Consulta           Consulta
                            Nias                 TA
                                                 Strategic



The P M U will liaise closely with other BRR units to coordinate activities and maximize the use
o f existing expertise within the organization. With the help o f the IPMconsultants, the P M U will
work with the BRR Internal Supervisory Unit that addresses complaints handling and anti-
corruption measures to monitor and resolve issues that arise during implementation. It will also
feed information and data collected on implementation progress and results of infrastructure
subprojects to the Communications Office for dissemination. The PMU Procurement Support
team working under the umbrella o f the PMUwill work with the central BRR procurement team
to ensure consistency across all BRR programs. The IPM safeguards consultants will provide
support to the land acquisition and environmental safeguards teams within BRR. In addition, the
financial management team, will be responsible for coordinating with the Deputy o f Financial
Management. These relationships are illustratedinthe chart below.




                                                32

             Relationshipwith Other Units in BRR


              Operations                                                             Finance and



                                                  EnvLonmental
              corruption         Acquisition      Safeguards

            I
            -                         I


                                      I

                                                                                          I
            r              I                                PMU              1
              ERR Central             II I
            m-1
              Procurement                        IPM
              Team                  support      Consuitants



              Communications




Joint Secretariatscomprisingrepresentatives from local governments and from the regional and
district BRR offices3' will be established will be established ineach o f the 12 districts covered by
the project. The Joint Secretariats, assisted by IREP consultants, will facilitate a mechanism o f
coordination and consultation among multiple stakeholders, including the local governments,
BRR, and NGOs inthe overall planning prockss, formulating LGIPs and PGIPs, and identifying
individual subprojects to be co-financed by IRFFusingB W D Fresources.

The progress o f the project will be monitored by the BRR InfrastructureBoard (IB), which i s
comprised o f the COO and the Deputies o f Infrastructure, Housing, Finance and Planning, and
Institutional Development. The IB will discuss issues related to donor coordination, monitor
progress o f the reconstruction program, and resolve multisectoral issues. The Board will meet
every month during the first few months o f project implementation to provide additional
oversight, and then will hold bimonthly meetings for the duration o f project implementation. The
P M U Secretariat team will prepare agendas for these meetings and highlight issues to be
discussed.

The IB will receive monthly reports from the Project Management Unit (PMU) on progress,
challenges to implementation, and budgeting issues. In addition, the BRR complaints handling
unitwill provide monthly updates of complaintsreceivedregarding the infrastructureprogram to
both the PMU and to the IB. The PMU will be responsible for recommending courses o f action
for resolution, which could escalate to the IB, if the problem i s complex and warrants special
attention. The IB will also give regular updates and full briefs every three months to the BRR
Executive Board, which comprises all BRR Deputy Directors and i s headed by an Executive
Director. The Bupatimalikota will also communicate feedback on progress o f the infrastructure
program intheir jurisdictions to the Executive Board on a regular basis.



31In all, BRR is establishing 6 regional offices and 15 district offices across Aceh and Nias, with one
district office located in each one o f the 12 districts covered by IRFF. There is an overlap between the 6
regional and 15 district BRR offices: 6 o f the 15 district offices will be regional offices with responsibility
for their own district, as well as coordinating responsibilities over a few neighboring districts.


                                                       33

C.        Planningand ImplementationofInfrastructureReconstruction Subprojects

IRFFwill finance individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local governments as
well as strategic investments at the provincial level. Local and provincial governments, with
support from BRR and IREP consultants will prepare Local Government Annual Investment
Plans (LGIPs), and Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans (PGIPs) that respond to
local investment needs. IRFF will fund some o f the infrastructure subprojects contained in the
LGIPs and PGIPs. To avoid delays in making progress on the 2007 investment plan, REP-
financed IPM consultants will review the subprojects already under preparation by BRR and
other donors and identify subprojects for IRFF financing. All subprojects financed by IRFF will
be required to meet eligibility criteria based on sector and geographic location, technical,
economic and financial criteria, and environmental safeguards.

Inorder to meet urgent infrastructure needs, local governments and BRR, supported by IREP
consultants will identify subprojects in advanced design stages and with l o w safeguards risks to
begin construction within the first 6 months o f consultants' mobilization. IREP consultants will
conduct field assessments to identify overall infrastructure needs and take stock o f ongoing
infrastructure activities o f all major donors, as well as those o f local and provincial governments.
R E P consultants will use findings from these field assessments and work closely with BRR to
develop selection criteria to quickly identify subprojects that reflect the priorities o f local
governments, BRR, and local stakeholders, as well as the eligibility criteria based on technical,
economic,     financial,   environmental    and    safeguards    compliance considerations.        Local
governments will review and approve the subprojects proposed. The list o f subprojects approved
by local governments will be sent to the Bank for no objection. IREP consultants will assist inthe
preparation o f subprojects, including detailed design and tender documents, and bidding
documents. The IPMProcurement Support Team from IREP TA will provide overall guidance to
BRR for procurement of subprojects. For 2007, procurement will be centralized3*and undertaken
by BRR with the participation o f satkers. In 2007, these satkers will be nominated by local
governments and appointed by BRR.

Local and Provincial GovernmentAnnual Investment Plans

The proposed IRFF aims to finance key local investments embedded in strategic local
development investment plans prepared by local/provincial governments with the assistance o f
IREP-financed technical assistance. Currently, most 1ocaVprovincial governments have long lists
o f reconstruction investment needs, and efforts are needed to consolidate these demands, identify
appropriate financing sources (e.g. the IRFF, NGOs with investment resources, other donors,
local governments' own resources, the BRR) and define local government priorities. Local and
provincial governments will prepare Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs) and
Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans (PGIPs),                   respectively, addressing key
infrastructure gaps and priorities with IREP's support. Existing and on-going donor assisted
development and strategic planning efforts (for e.g., ADB's support o f KAPs, and Government o f
France's support o f local level infrastructure design) would also serve as inputs for IRFF funded
projects. These LGIPsFGIPs will comprise a series o f individual investment subprojects to be
financed by BRR, local governments and donors. The proposed IRFF will fund some o f the
infrastructure subprojects contained in the LGIPs and PGIPs, each o f which will be co-financed
by BRRand MDFmonies.


32During Year 1 of the project, IPM consultants will conduct a procurement capacity assessment that will
determine the extent to which Procurement will be decentralized to the local and provincial governments in
later years.


                                                   34

Prioritization and eligibility criteria of local and provincial governments' plans. At the outset o f
the planning process, BRRwill publishscreening criteria to prioritize the subprojects contained in
the LGIPs and PGIPs. In order to inform the selection o f subprojects that can potentially be
funded by B W D F resources from the prioritized list o f subprojects, BRR will publish
eligibility criteria based on sector and geographic location, technical, economic and financial
criteria, in addition to environmental safeguards. Details o f these eligibility and screening criteria
to inform the selection o f subprojects to be financed by IRFF are provided in Annex 4. The
prioritization and eligibility criteria developed will be shared with the Bank for its no objection.
These criteria will be periodically reviewed and revised with the assistance o f IPMconsultants. In
addition, regional offices o f BRR will develop region-specific criteria to guide the prioritization
o f infrastructure investments intheir respective regions.

Local and provincial governments with support from IREP consultants will prepare a prioritized
list o f proposed infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in their respective districts to form the
basis o f LGIPs and PGIPs. This list will be discussed at the Joint Secretariats in each o f the 12
project districts. Discussions at the Joint Secretariats, assisted by IREP consultants, will facilitate
consultation among local governments, BRR district offices, and local stakeholders to develop
LGIPs and PGIPs~~During discussions at the Joint Secretariat, BRR supported by IREP
                           .
consultants will disseminate information on, and sensitize local and provincial governments to,
the eligibility criteria o f subprojects to be financed by IRFF, i.e. from BWMDF resources, as
well as region-specific criteria received from the BRR regional office. These criteria will inform
the selection o f subprojects eligible for IRFF financing from the list o f prioritized subprojects in
the LGIPsand PGIPs.

Submission of LGIPs and PGIPsfor approval of subprojects to bejnanced by BRWMDF.Once
the LGIPs & PGIPs are finalized, the Joint Secretariat and local government will send the LGIPs
and PGIPs to the BRR PMU, through BRR's regional office, for discussion and confirmation o f
BRR's potential commitment to finance specific subprojects with IRFF funds in line with
regional priorities. These initial investment plans will serve as baseline projections for
commitments and disbursements for the operation, and periodic reviews progress during
implementation would allow for the BRR to update projections and reallocate commitments
based on implementation progress. The BRR PMU will share the list o f confirmed subprojects
with the Bank every quarter as part o f the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) along with analyses
justifying their confirmation. Each accepted sub-project would be subject to a documented
appraisal process to ensure eligibility. As part o f the IFR review process, the Bank will ensure
that subprojects are fully consistent with, and meet the defined subproject eligibility criteria (set
out in Annex 4), and that the required safeguards assessments are met (see Annex 8). The BRR
PMUand the Bank will agree (through a Bank no objection letter, `NOL') on a procurementplan
(subproject list o f IRFF funded projects derived from LGIPs and PGIPs) for eligible subprojects
for the forthcoming quarter that will contain details o f confirmed subprojects and an explanation
o f their inclusion in IRFF. Further, the Bank will require prior review o f all International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) o f goods and works contracts, all projects financed retroactively, the
first three National Competitive Bidding(NCB) goods and works contracts, consultant's contracts
greater than US$200,000, and the first three contracts using Consultants Qualification Process
(CQ) (see Annex 6).




33The LGIPs and PGIPs will be circulatedto the MDF SteeringCommittee for informationalpurposes and
posted on the BRR's webpage. The MDF will have the opportunityto comment on the plans duringproject
supervision.


                                                  35

Subproject preparation. All approved subprojects will be notified to the local/provincial
governments. After agreement, an MOU between the BRR and local and provincial governments
will include confirmation o f the subprojects the BRR will finance in the LGIPPGIPs through
IRFF, as well as formal commitment by the local and provincial governments to allocate
appropriate budgetary resources to maintain these investments on the basis o f a maintenance plan.
Operations and maintenance o f all IRFF subprojects will be supported by detailed financial and
maintenance assessments/plans developed byIREP technical assistance (West Coast, Nias, and
Strategic Planning, Design, and Construction Supervision consultants).

Local/provincial governments, with the assistance o f the IREP-financed consultants working at
the district level, will be responsible for the process o f detailed subproject preparation, including
preliminary design, analysis o f alternatives, environmental and social screening, and eventually
detailed engineering design and tender documents. Final subproject designs and tender documents
will be submitted to the BRRPMUfor review and tendering.

Subproject Approval. Once received by the' BRR PMU for final clearance and procurement,
subprojects will be reviewed to ensure that they meet the technical, economic, financial,
environmental and safeguards compliance criteria developed at the outset of the project.

Social and environmental safeguards. Safeguard policies triggered by this project include
environmental assessment, involuntary resettlement, and indigenous peoples. A safeguards
framework for this project i s attached in Annex 8. IREP consultants working with local
governments will help address all safeguard concerns at the subproject feasibility and design
stage. Contractors will be responsible for the adequate implementation of safeguard measures
with support from IREP consultants. Subprojects that call for special studies to address
safeguards issues will benefit from additional assistance from IPM consultants (i.e., IREP
consultants assisting the PMU). Funds for compensating communities for land acquisition and
other resettlement activities will be provided by local governments.

Procurement support and capacity building. The IPMProcurement Support Team from IREP TA
will provide overall guidance to BRR for procurement o f subprojects confirmed to receive
BRR/MDF financing. For 2007, procurement will be centralized and undertaken by BRR and
provincial governments with the participation of satkers. During Year 1 o f the project, IPM
consultants will conduct a procurement capacity assessment that will determine the extent to
which procurement will be decentralized to the local and provincial governments in later years.

Subproject implementation and support. Satkers will be responsible for implementing subprojects
and overseeing contractors with the support o f IREP supervision consultants. In 2007, these
stakers will be nominated by local governments and appointed by BRR. In later years, it i s
expected that satkers will be nominated and appointed by local governments. Consultant teams
will work alongside satkers to assist in the implementation and supervision o f infrastructure
reconstruction. In particular, IREP supervision consultants will apprise the stakers o f the progress
made by contractors, on the basis o f which satkers will initiate payment to contractors. In
addition, IREP consultants will assist local and provincial governments in devising asset
maintenance strategies to be reflectedintheir LGIPs and PGIPs.

Monitoring and evaluation. BRR, with the assistance o f the IPM team, will be responsible for
developing and implementing a monitoring and evaluation system for the project. Physical
implementation progress and financial performance will be measured and evaluated against set
standards or targets usingperformance indicators and the M I S system created by the IPMteam.
Regular reporting by IPM, West Coast, Nias and provincial consultant teams will monitor the


                                                  36

        investments committed, the quality o f designs and of investments during implementation, and the
        levels of involvement and responsibility o f subproject management taken over time by local and
        provincial government staff. IPM consultants will also conduct spot checks o f design and
        construction quality.

        The process o f developing prioritization and eligibility criteria, prioritizing subprojects for
        inclusion into the LGIPs and PGIPs, their review and approval by the PMU and the Bank, and the
        transition into the implementation phase i s shown inthe chart below.




   Local and Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans


          A. Publish                      8. Prioritization                          C. Review & Approval                 D,
          Criteria




                                   ...2.b
                                             Consultants



BRR publishes eligibilitycriteriafor      Open list of possible projects (all       Joint Secretariat (local government &  Subprojects are prepared
MDF/BRR sub-projectfinancing,             sectors) compiled by local                districthegional BRR office) review    (DED&TD) and supervised
based on i.) sector & location, ii.)      government, BRR,and REP                   'Draft Priority List 'and confirms     by Consultant, and
technical, iii.) environmental&           Consultants. Consultantswork wl
fiduciary safeguards,& iv) financial      local governmentto review
sustainability.                           projects.

BRR publishes                             Consultants provide analysis, and.
prioritization/screeningcriteria,         assist local government to screen
based on i.) sector gaps, ii.) pro-       projects (by sector) to develop
poor impacts, iii.) preliminaryCBA,       Draft PriorityList for the Local
iv.) capacity of local government,        Government Annual Investment
etc.                                      Plan (LGIP) and Provincial
                                          Government Annual Investment
World Bank provides no objection          Plan (PGIP).
to proposedeligibility and
prioritizationcriteria.                  Consultants make
                                          recommendations based on BRR
Criteria will be periodically            eligibility and prioritizationcriteria
reviewedand revised by BRR               possible MDF/BRR financed             ..
offices with the assistanceof IPM        projects identified.
Consultants
                                         Local government prepares 'Draft
BAR regionalldistrictoffice will         Priority List' Consultant's analysis
develop regionalspecific criteria        included. 'Draft Priority List'
                                         submittedto Joint Secretariat.
                                         Copies provided to the World
                                         Bank.




        I R F F Project Financing and DisbursementProcedures

        BRRandKPPN(Regional Treasury Office) have establisheda very effective means o f disbursing
        satker investment funds to contractors, other suppliers, and to satkers to cover day-to-day
        operating expenses. The project proposes to utilize these procedures in addition to providing the


                                                                                 37

facility o f direct payment if needed. The project will establish a Designated/Special
Account       (DA) described in Annex 7 on Project Financial Management, and the KPPN will
draw funds from the special account to meet project commitments as required. BRR and MDF
will contribute to each subproject financed by IRFF according to a 70:30 co-financing ratio.
KPPNwill simply draw 30% o f each claim's fundingrequirements from the Special Account and
70% from the BRR's approved budget (DIPA)resources.

The only addition to the existing BRR withdrawal procedures from KPPN for IRFF subprojects
will be the inclusion of an authorization for payment from the IREP/IRFFsupervision consultant.
BRR will advise KPPN o f this change o f procedure which is not expected to be problematic. A
summary o f the project's disbursement procedures i s noted below.

1.      BRR's PMU prepares separate DIPA for each satker on the basis o f the agreed IRFF
        work-plan prior to the commencement o f any work or commitment.

2.      BRR's P M U releases the DIPA and letter o f assignment o f the satker to the appropriate
         line ministry or other supervising work unit according to existing procedures.

3.      The satker delivers a copy o f the DIPA and the letter o f assignment which details the
         satker's function and names o f key satker personnel to KPPN.

4.      Each satker will have two (2) broad functions which will be financed by the DIPA using
        MDFandBRR funds:
        (a)      general project administration duties; and
        (b)      project implementationactivities.

5.      Funds will be provided to the satker for general administrative and operational expenses
        by the SPM (Surat Permintaan Pembayaran) - Up (special payment order- operational
        expenditure) procedures, which effectively provide the satker with a cash float to fund
        small day to day operational expenses. Funds will be paid into the satker's bank account
        by KPPN usually to a ceiling o f Rupiah 5 million. The float will be replenished as
        required.

6.      Contractors and suppliers o f larger administrationitems (such as computers for the satker
        office) will be paid usinga SPM- L S`(special payment order- direct contractor payment)
        usingthe following procedures:
        (a)      Contractors will be paid 20 percent o f contract price (as stipulated in the
                 contract) directly into their designated account on signing the contract.   The
                 advance will be secured by a bank guarantee as stipulated incontract.
        (b)      The balance o f payments will be made according to contractual obligations using
                 the followingprocedures:
                 (i) Contractor will submit invoices to the satker according to payment
                         provisions included inthe contract;
                 (ii) Contractor will submit supporting documents according to contractual
                         requirements;
                 (iii) Invoicessubmittedmustbeverifiedby,andbearthesignaturesof, the
                         IREP/IRFF supervision        consultant.  Verification   by IREPIIRFF
                          supervision consultant will require hisher review and confirmation that
                         the physical progress o f works i s in accordance with the contract and
                         with the contractor's invoice.



                                                 38

                         Satker will review and confirm that the physical progress o f works are in
                         accordance with the contract and with the contractor's invoice.
                         Satkers will review the claim and confirm that: it i s in accordance with
                         the contract; supporting documents are complete; and the claim i s in
                         accordance with the approved satker budget.
                         When all documentation i s complete the satker will prepare an SPM-LS
                         which will be signed and stamped by both the satker manager and the
                         IREP/IRFFsupervision consultant.
                         The SPM-LS will then be forwarded by the satker to KPPN for
                         processing and direct payment to the contractor's bank account less any
                         retention for guarantees provided for in the contract, any advances
                         provided for inthe contract and for any taxation obligations.
                         After checking that all supporting documents are in order and the claim
                         has been correctly authorized by both the satker and IREP/IRFF
                         supervision consultant, KPPN will draw payment from the satker budget
                         held by treasury and special account according to the agreed
                         apportionment and pay this directly to the contractor's specified account.

7.      If, for any reason, agreement has been reached with a contractor to pay claims directly
from the MDF/World Bank the contractor and satker will follow the same procedures noted in (i)
though (iv) immediately above and complete a Bank withdrawal request as per standard Bank
procedures and forward this to the predetermined location for processing. These withdrawal
requests will also need to be endorsedby the IREP/IRFFsupervision consultant.




                                               39

                       ANNEX4. SUBPROJECTELIGIBILITY CRITERIA

A. Introduction

IRFFwill finance individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local governments as
well as strategic investments at the provincial level. All subprojects financed by IRFF will be
required to meet eligibility criteria based on sector and geographic location, technical, economic
and financial criteria, and environmental safeguards. This annex outlines the criteria used to
determine the eligibility o f a subproject to be funded by IRFF.

B. Subproject Eligibility

To ensure that investments financed under the operation meet Bank and international standards
for quality o f investment and are sustainable in the mediumterm, all investments financed under
the operation would be evaluated prior to tendering using simple eligibility criteria. Duringthe
initial stages o f the engagement o f the IPM consultants financed under the related REP
operation, detailed eligibility criteria will be defined and disseminated to local governments and
the consultant teams which aim to ensure that subprojects submitted for final approval by the
BRR meet simple requirements for (a) sectoral and geographic inclusion inthe proposed project;
(b) appropriate design o f technical solutions; (c) economic and financial viability, including
ensuring that mechanisms are in place for operation and maintenance o f IRFF-financed
investment; and (d) compliance with the agreed-upon safeguard approach as relates to
environmental, social, and fiduciary safeguards in place under IRFF. In addition, consideration
will be given to whether subprojects can be implemented within the investment phase o f the
project, although guarantee, operations and maintenance periods may exceed this period. While
the details o f the eligibility approach would be finalized by the IPM consultants duringthe initial
phase o f their engagement under the REP, the principles o f subproject eligibility would be based
upon 5 key filters:

0    Geographic and Sectoral Eligibility Criteria. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
     IRFFwould finance eligible investments which are:
        o for reconstruction and rehabilitation o f strategic infrastructure assets or extension o f
            key infrastructure services o f adequate quality standards to meet the needs o f
            communities where infrastructure was damaged by either the tsunami or earthquake
            or are:
        o provincial or district level infrastructure, although limited village infrastructure may
            be included incase it i s necessary for the overall function o f the investment.
        o in the eligible sectors, namely kubupaten and provincial roads, ports, water and
            sanitation, drainage, flood control, coastal protection and restoration o f major
            irrigation canals. In exceptional cases, subprojects outside these sectors may be
            financed by IRFFby submittinga detailed subproject proposal to the Bank to seek its
            no-objection.
        o greater than US$300,000 for local investments and US$l,OOO,OOO               for provincial
            investments in order to focus IRFF on priority investments at the district level and
            allow for other sources o f financing, including own-source revenues, to be used on
            small, local investment.


0   TechnicalCriteria. IPMconsultants under Component 1o f the IREP will develop simplified
    technical screening criteria, differentiatedby sector, for the rapid review o f subprojects. The
    technical eligibility framework will emphasize the identification o f least-cost solutions and
    evaluation o f alternatives and appropriate, `right-sized' technical solutions.


                                                  40

  Economic Criteria. Subprojects will be -quickly screened to ensure that they have positive
  economic outcomes. Methodologies and guidelines for rapid economic and financial analysis
  o f subprojects will be prepared by the IPMconsultants. For access roads, the project will use
  a derivative o f the SK77, a locally used economic model for the evaluation o f road
  investments consistent with the Bank's Highway Development and Management Model to
  evaluate the economic and financial feasibility.

  Environmentaland FiduciarySafeguards Criteria.Subprojects will be assessed to ensure
  that they are not likely to highly damaging for the environmental or socially controversial.
  For example subprojects will not be deemed eligible if they likely to: (i)significantly impact
  on environmentally or culturally sensitive sites; (ii) result in inter-basin transfer o f water
  resources; significantly alter coastal zone morphology and processes; (iii)result inlarge scale
  land-clearance; (iv) use or emit toxic and/or hazardous wastes; or (v) result in large-scale
  resettlement. The eligibility criteria are not to be confused with formal social and
  environmental screening mandated under GO1 regulations to determine what level o f
  environmental and social review i s required for each subproject, as further detailed in the
  Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework outlined in Annex 8. Eligibility will also
  include fiduciary and anti-corruptionmeasures.

0 Financial Sustainability Criteria. To ensure financial sustainability, primarily aimed at
  putting in place mechanisms for proper operation and maintenance o f IRFF-financed
  investment, each finalized subproject would include a plan for operation and maintenance,
  including identification o f financing sources and the appropriate commitment from local
  authorities to put inplace such mechanisms.




                                              41

  ANNEX 5. FINANCING FUNDFLOWTOINFRASTRUCTURERECONTRUCTIONPROJECTS
                           AND

The purpose o f this annex i s twofold. Firstly, it provides a background o f the financial resources
required and available to Aceh and BRR particularly, to finance infrastructure rehabilitation and
reconstruction subprojects in tsunami and earthquake affected areas. The second part explains
what budgeting procedures are inplace to ensure the effective management o f funds to be used to
finance subprojects prepared and supervised by IREP.

A.        Available Financial Resourcesfor InfrastructureSubprojects

Funding for rehabilitation and reconstruction has come from: (i) Government o f Indonesia
                                                                        the
(GOI) through BRR; (ii)    donors- both multilateral and bilateral; and (iii) NGOs. In overall terms
sufficient funds were pledged to meet most needs and to build back infrastructure to a higher
standard than that which was destroyed or damaged. However, the impact o f inflation and the
less than perfect allocation o f resources mean that there are significant funding gaps between
sectors and across parts o f Aceh and Nias.

Impact of inflation on rehabilitation and reconstruction and exchange rate

Since the tsunami, prices inAceh have increased more sharply than the national average; the most
dramatic increases being inBanda Aceh where year-on-year inflation in December 2005 reached
41 percent (compared to 23 percent in Medan and 17 percent nationwide). The increase inprices
has been mostly driven by increases in transport costs o f 93 percent over the same period. This
has, in turn, been the major determinant in the increase in the cost o f construction materials
(brick, wood, and sand increased by 83 percent, 124 percent, and 164 percent respectively over
the same period). Inaddition to materials, labor costs also increased significantly in 2005; up 40
to 50 percent across all categories o f construction workers. On a less pessimistic note, since
January 2006 prices for both material inputs and labor have remainedrelatively stable at the high
2005 levels but they have not increased significantly since then. The impact o f inflation i s readily
shown since BRR needed to increase the average unit cost o f new houses from its original
estimate o f Rupiah 28.5 million to Rupiah 53 million- an increase o f some 85 percent.

Between January 2005 and February 2006 the Rupiah to US Dollar exchange rate has ranged in
value significantly. However, the current exchange rate i s approximately the same as it was in
January 2005 and, under current macroeconomic conditions, the exchange rate i s likely to remain
at around its current levels. It i s therefore unlikely that exchange rate will have any impact on the
cost o f reconstruction.

Inflation will result in at least an additional US$ 1.2 billion being needed to deliver the Aceh
reconstruction program for all sectors which was initially estimated at US$4.9 billion. For the
key infrastructure sub-sectors o f transport, flood control and irrigation, energy,               and
communication, inflation will add about US$ 400 million to the cost o f building back assuming
an inflation rate o f40 percent.

Overallfinancingperspective andfunding gaps

As o f March 2006, approximately US$4.7 billion had been allocated by GOI, NGOs and donors
(including MDF) to specific rehabilitation subprojects and an estimated additional US$3.7 billion
had been committed but had not been allocated to specific subprojects. This total o f US$8.4
billion appears sufficient given overall funding needs to: (i)cover the original loss assessment
across all sectors from the tsunami and earthquake o f US$4.9 billion; (ii)     cover anticipated cost


                                                   42

increases o f US$ 1.2 billion resulting from inflation; and (iii) back better (US$2.3 billion)
                                                                  build
according to the GOI's stated objective. Housing and the social sectors have receivedthe greatest
attention in terms of the allocation o f resources and this i s reasonable given that these are the
sectors which suffered the greatest damage. However, BRR, donors' and NGOs' interests and
focus have varied across sectors according to their comparative advantage and preference and
this, understandably, has resulted insome mismatchbetween available funds and financing needs.
The table below provides a summary o f the apparent surpluses and funding gaps in key sectors
which were impacted by the tsunami and earthquake. The table's assessment i s based upon the
minimumneeds to build back rather than the estimated loss assessment noted above. This is
because the data in the table considers: (i)the reduced housing needs because o f the very
significant loss o f life; and (ii)
                                  only the needs o f the public sector. Many NGOs will complete
their reconstruction tasks by the end of 2006 which means that critical gaps will need to be
funded by BRR and other donors such as the MDF and ADB.

Surpluses and gaps noted in the table below are calculated using funds which have already been
allocated to subprojects; they exclude the estimated US$3.7 billion in funds that have been
committed but not allocated to specific subprojects.

              Table 1. Assessmentof Gap between FundingAvailability and Needs

                             Minimum                     Surplus/    Minimum     Surplus/ Gap
      Sector- sub-sector      to build    Already       Gap (-) at     to build
                             backwith     allocated       20%        backwith     (-) at 40%
                               20%                      inflation       40%        inflation
                             US$ mill.   US$ mill.      US$ mill.    US$ mill.     US$ mill.

     -
     Social                        482        1,478           996            563          915
     Education                     204          455           252            238          217
     Health                        152         526            374            177          349
     Community                     127          497           370            148          349

     Infrastructure              2,415        2,165          -250          2,818         -653
     Housing                       991        1,125            134         1,156          -3 1
     Transport                     824          506          -319            962         -456
     Communications                  56          23            -33            65          -42
     Energy                        118           46            -72           138          -92
     Waterisanitation                82         235            153            96          139
     Flood control &               284          140          -144            332         -192
     irrigation
     Other                           59          91             32            69           22

     Productive                    223          628           404           260           368
     Agricu1ture                     73         159             86            85           74
     Fisheries                     130          201             72           152           49
     Enterprise                      20         267           247             23          244

     Cross sector                  349                        109           408            49
     Environment                   201         .458
                                                 72          -129           235          -163
     Governance                    129          380           251            151          229
    Admin.                           19           5            -14            22          -17

    Total                        3,470        4,729         1,259         4,049           679




                                               .43

While it i s difficult to be precise or certain, it is estimated that o f the $3.7 billion that may be
committed about: (i)$1.12 billion will come from GO1 through BRR (see below); (ii)$0.495
billion could be available from local government (see below); (iii)    $0.2 billion could be available
from NGOs; and (iv) $1.9 billion could be available from other donors. The only certain funding
i s $1.12 billion from GOI. Availability and use o f GO1(US$1.12 billion) and local government
($0.495 billion) funds i s discussed below. The availability o f the balance o f other funds ($2.1
billion) from NGOs and other donors i s unclear. It i s more than likely though that these donors
will continue to fund programs which they have funded previously and concentrate on housing,
education, health, and livelihoods leaving key funding gaps to BRR to finance.

Sector Gaps

The table shows that, in total, there i s an apparent surplus in available funds from BRR, donors
and NGOs to build back minimum needs at both the 20 percent and 40 percent inflation
assumptions. This, however, i s misleading as it does not highlight the shortfalls in key sectors
and sub-sectors.    Infrastructure i s showing a deficit o f available funds for reconstruction o f
US$653 million usingthe 40 percent inflation assumption. Ifthe water and sanitation surplus i s
removed the infrastructure deficit rises to US$792 million. The lack o f sufficient funding for the
transport sector i s clearly a critical issue because an efficient transport network i s vital for the
delivery o f rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance and for overall economic development.

Geographic Gaps

In addition to there being funding shortfalls by sector and sub-sector there are significant
differences in the availability o f funds between regions in Aceh and Nias. In some instances
regional gaps are more pronounced than sectoral gaps. The areas immediately adjacent to Banda
Aceh (Banda Aceh Kota and Aceh Besar) have more than adequate resources to rebuild but other
areas are severely under-funded.       On the west coast, areas south o f Meulaboh and Nias are
particularly under-funded as are Aceh Timur and Aceh Temang on the east coast. Aceh Barat
Daya, Aceh Selatan, and Nias Selatan only have financing to cover less than 50 percent o f needs.
Fundingneeds and availability o f funds for Aceh Singhil are not known.

BRR's ability tofund gaps without additional assistance

Table 2 below, estimates funds from BRR and local government, available to finance
infrastructure subprojects between 2007 and 2009.           The table provides estimates for: (a)
remaining committed but unallocated funds (to subprojects or sectors) for budget years 2007,
2008, and 2009; and (b) the estimated funds available for infrastructure subprojects for the same
three years. There are three sources o f funding: (a) BRR; (b) Decon or special development
grants to local government; and (c) local government funds.




                                                  44

 Table 2. Estimate of available funds for reconstruction and for infrastructure-2005 to 2009


I t e m                                                   BRR           Decon        Local      Total
                                                         ($mill.)      ($mill.)     ($mill.)   ($mill.)

Total funds for reconstruction
Total commitment- 2005 to 2009                               2,100            300        350     2,750
Already allocated- 05 & 06 budgets                            980              83          72     1,135
Remaining for 07, 08, & 09                                   1,120            217        278      1,615
Funds available for infrastructure07 to 09
Estimated % allocation to infrastructure                        65             65          40
Total available for infrastructure 07 to 09                   728             140         110       978
Less housing & housing infrastructure                         210
Available for infrastructure excluding housing                 518            140         110       768
Estimate available for 2007                                    390             55          45       490
Estimate available for 2008                                    128             55          45       228
Estimate available for 2009                                                    30          20         50
Total available 2007 to 2009                                   518            140         110       768

Best bet estimates indicate that about $768 million should be available in total for the three years
from the three sources for infrastructure. However, there are four significant points to be
considered with this data:

(i)      The US$768 million i s US$24 million short o f the US$792 million infrastructure sector
         fundinggap estimated and described above;
(ii)     Decon and local government funds (US$495 million for 2007 to 2009) cover all local
         governments in the province (and Nias) not just those local governments in the greatest
         need or those local government districts with the widest fbndinggaps;
(iii)    Fundingfrom Decon and local government sources may not be available for key sectors
         in funding deficit kabupatens becauge of investment decisions by local governments.
         Nevertheless, it i s anticipated that IRFF funds and technical assistance can be used to
         effectively leverage a portion o f these two significant sources o f funding; and
(iv)     BRR's mandate calls for it to support all affected geographic regions so BRR is highly
         unlikely to only support infrastructure subprojects in local government districts with the
         widest funding gaps.

On balance, it i s clear that there will not be adequate local resources to fund the sectoral and
geographic gaps described above. It i s also highly unlikely that this gap will be met by other
donors who have their own predetermined programs and preferences and most o f which have
committed all they are likely to commit. Additional resources from MDF will, therefore, be
critical to fund shortfalls in under-funded sectors generally and, more particularly, in under-
funded sectors in under-funded regions or kabupatens. MDF funds will also be able to be used to
effectively leverage GOI's and local government's funds into deficit sectors and geographic
regions.

B.       PublicFlow ofRehabilitationandReconstructionFunds

Timing will be critical if the needed program o f rehabilitation and reconstruction is to be
completed before BRR's mandate expires in April 2009 - less than three years away. BRR's
2005 and 2006 budgets are currently being implemented and the 2007 budget i s being framed. It
is, therefore, vital to include a timely budgeting mechanism that can effectively leverage BRR



                                                   45

and MDF funds to development needs, the remaining available time, and the resources available
to the program through IREP and IRFF.

Local GovernmentFunding and Participation

Aceh's      special autonomy       status and fiscal decentralization,     with its   accompanying
intergovernmental transfers which have become the major source for regional government
revenues, has provided both provincial and district governments with substantial financial
resources in addition to further financing responsibilities. The combination o f reconstruction
funds with these transfers, in addition to locally derived funds, has created a major opportunity
for the province to repair damage caused by the tsunami and earthquake and develop further.
However, despite the promising opportunity provided by the influx o f funds, managing funds
flow and the budget process i s problematic for local governments and, as a consequence, the
availability o f funds has not provided the anticipated benefits.



Regional budgeting (APBD) processes should start in June o f the year preceding the budget year
and conclude prior to the start o f the financial (and calendar) year.        Additionally, the first
semester's realizations and estimates for the second semester should be evaluated and presented
to DPRD (regional parliament) at the end o f July o f the fiscal year concerned. As the fiscal year
ends, the realization o f APBD i s audited by BPK (National Auditing Agency) and the audit report
should be submitted to DPRD.

Unfortunately, in most instances, the budget process does not work in accordance with the
timeline set by the laws and regulation. The result o f studies on district governments' capacity in
ten tsunami affected districts in Aceh showed that, on average, it takes four months for local
budgets to be approved by the local parliament. Insome districts in Aceh in 2005, the budget was
submitted after the fiscal year began and, as result, it was approved as late as June and even
August 2005. These delays also occurred before the tsunami and they have reoccurred in 2006.
Because o f these problems it i s difficult for {oca1 government districts to function and manage
their financial resources effectively.     Accordingly it i s considered impractical and totally
unworkable to include local government financial resources (estimated at US$495 million) as co-
financing or partnership funds to be included in the financing facility. There i s little doubt that
providing for local government funds in the financial plan for the project would have resulted in
unacceptable delays that would, in turn, have jeopardized the benefits to be derived from this
project and IREP.

On a more positive note it is also apparent that the financing facility will be able to effective
leverage some local government developmen`t funds even though they will be outside the IRFF
financial envelope.      Firstly, local government funds will be used to fund tertiary or local
subprojects which have been made possible by larger infrastructure subprojects financed by
IRFF. Examples here include: (i) construction o f village roads by local government and their
                                      the
connection to larger kabupaten and provincial roads funded by IRFF; and (ii)      the connection o f
households by local government to water and drainage infiastructure. Local government will be
engaged by the IREP and IRFFprograms to ensure, as best as possible, that this local government
investment occurs and that capacity i s strengthened. Second, programs and subprojects to be
funded by IRFFand implemented under the IREP umbrella will require agreements to be reached
on asset maintenance prior to implementation. The role o f maintenance and sustainability will
fall, to a large part, to local government and it i s anticipated that IRFF and I M P will enter into
agreements with these authorities to fulfill this function.



                                                  46

BRR Budget Procedures

Budgeting procedures used by BRR follow regulated government budget guidelines. This year
the process commenced in March 2006 with the submission o f the work-plan (for 2007) and it
will finishwith the approved budget (DIPA),anticipated to be inDecember 2006. The work-plan
i s used to determine budget ceilings (about Rupiah 10 trillion- about US$ 1 billion for 2007) and
BRR use this ceiling to prepare detailed work plans. Consolidated and individual ministry (and
BRR) work-plans and draft budgets undergo significant scrutiny by the Ministry o f Finance,
Parliamentary Committees and the Parliament before they are eventually approved and released.

BRR's budget format has changed considerably betweenthe 2006 and2007 budget. For the 2005
and 2006 budgets, work-plan activities were specified according to satkers (program or project
work-groups). These satkers, which were usually work-groups established within an appointed
line-ministry, were then subdivided into activities and sub-activities.   Satker's projects could
cover the entire province, or just one kabupaten or one kota (district).        The 2005 budget
comprised 101 satkers and there were over 900 activities with accompanying sub-activities. This
approach was problematic and lacked flexibility for BRR as rehabilitation and reconstruction
activities could not be readily changed from: (i)one satker to another satker; and (ii)from one
activity to another. BRR could only change or move funds from one sub-activity to another
without making significant representations to Ministry o f Finance at the national level. This
frustrated development as many satkers which had been formed relatively quickly were unable to:
(i)effectivelyimplementBRR'sprogram;and(ii)        disburse funds quickly.

Had the 2005 and 2006 procedure remained in place for the 2007 budget (DIPA) it would have
been particularly problematic for IRFF and IREP because it could have effectively locked away
BRR's 2007 funds to DIPA specified satkers and activities. This is because REP'Sconsultants
would not have had sufficient time to prepare. a feasible program for IRFF funding prior to BRR
having to submit its 2007 budget proposal for final approval. BRR may have had to wait until the
2007 budget revision time (mid-year 2007) which may have been too late. This issue was not
considered problematic for 2008 because there would have been adequate time for BRR, REP,
and IRFFto prepare the 2008 investment program for the normal budget approval process.

BRRhas altered its budgetprocedures significantly for 2007 and it is evident that the
issue o f beingunable to readily shift funds between subprojects (or activities within
subprojects) has been largely resolved. Instead o fproviding a detailed work program to
the Ministryo fFinancewith a detailedlist o factivities BRRwill shift to amore flexible
and satisfactory fundingregime for the 2007 DIPA. Effectively the BRR allocation to
the 2007 IRFFproject (about US$lOO million) will be allocated inthe budget inthree
activities: (i)rehabilitation and reconstruction o f energy, water resources, irrigation, and
flood control; (ii)rehabilitation and reconstruction o f seaports and airports,
telecommunications and postal services; and (iii)     rehabilitation and reconstruction o f
roads and bridges. Budgetguidelines require BRRto seek approval from MOF Jakarta
should it wish to reallocate funds from one o f these activities to another; this task can be
difficult and time consuming. These same three activities will be allocated to sub-
activities which, BRR advises, can be readily reallocatedat the local level.




                                               47

Budgeting procedures have not been determined for 2008 at this stage.            However: (i)the
procedures which will be inplace for 2007 should be sufficiently flexible to more than adequately
manage the 2008 allocation vote; and (ii)     because the IRFF consultants will have been in place
for some time prior to the formulation o f the 2008 budget, greater detail could be provided if
required. Subprojects to be funded from the IRFF facility in 2007 will be provided with budget
from the three infrastructure activities noted inthe DIPA.

As noted above, BRR's budget ceiling for 2007 has been set (at about Rupiah10 trillion-
approximately US$1 billion) and the DIPA i s being prepared to match this ceiling.            The
additional US$50 million MDF funding for 2007 is not included in the ceiling so it will be
necessary for BRR to address this issue. BRR advises this will not be difficult because the
additional funds are being provided as a grant.

The table below shows BRR's Renja to all four o f its infrastructure programs (the three activities
or programs noted above in addition to housing and housing infrastructure) for 2007. The Renja
i s the preliminary budget document which establishes ceilings for each o f the eventual DIPA's
(budget) activities. Total funds (government and grants) allocated to infrastructure subprojects
excluding housing is approximately Rupiah 3.6 trillion; about US$390 million (at an exchange
rate o f US$1 to Rupia 9,200). One further point needs to be noted from the data in the table
below: activity funds are allocated to Aceh and Nias. Similar restrictions apply to transferring
funds between Aceh and Nias as those which apply to transferring funds between the three
activities. Inother words, should BRR wish to transfer any o f the allocations noted against Aceh
or Nias inthe Renja it would need to seek approval from Jakarta to do so.

                 Table 3. BRRRenjafor Infrastructure-2007 (Rupiah million)

                                           Energy,
                          Housing &       irrigation       Sea &                      Total
                           housing        water, &       airports,    Roads &        excluding
                            infra           floo$I      telecoms &     bridges       housing
                                           control          post

Aceh
Governmentfunds         I,033,779.0       776,990.2     540,657.0    944,355.9     ,262,003.1
Grants                    643,299.3       141,023.7     530,595.0    175,150.2      846,768.9
Total                   1,677,078.3       918,013.9    ,071,252.0   ,119,506.0     ,108,772.0

Nias
Governmentfunds           166,221.O       123,009.8      55,000.0    212,712.0     390,721.8
Grants                    106,330.7        22,326.3      52,000.0     39,45 1.8     113,778.1
Total                     272,551.7       145,336.1     107,000.0    252,163.9     504,499.9

Total NAD & Nias
Governmentfunds          ,200,000.0       900,000.0     595,657.0   ,157,067.9     ,652,724.9
Grants                    749,630.0       163,350.0     582,595.0    214,602.0     960,547.0
Total                    ,949,630.0       1,063,350    ,178,252.0   ,371,669.9     ,613,271.9




                                                  48

                        ANNEX 6. PROCUREMENTPLANAND ASSESSMENT

A.       Introduction

Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement. The general description o f the various components
and the proposed selection procedures are detailed below. For each contract to be financed by the
Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame will be agreed between the Grant Recipient (BRR) and
reflected in the Procurement Plan. Due to the nature o f the project and in particular defining the
subprojects under component 1, a draft procurement plan was developed by negotiations based on
the list o f priority projects that are in the preparation phase. This will be updated once the
subprojects are further identified, prior to launching any procurement process for subprojects.
Once the first set o f subprojects are identified and reflected in the plan, it will be updated at least
annually, or as required, to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity inthe different local governments.

Retroactive financing will be provided under the project for up to 20% (i.e., US$20,000,000) o f
the MDF grant amount to finance eligible expenditures for project activities incurred after June
20, 2006. The services, civil works, and goods to be eligible for retroactive financing should be
contracted following Bank's Guidelines. All procurement contracts proposed under retroactive
financing will be subject to the Bank's prior review.

B.       ProjectDescriptionand ProcurementMethods

The proposed IRFF will finance strategic infrastructure reconstruction and rehabilitation
subprojects in the province o f Aceh and infrastructure subprojects in 12 local governments in
Aceh and Nias to extend key infrastructure services in communities where infrastructure was
damaged by the tsunami of 2004 and the subsequent earthquake. In addition, IRFF will provide
TA to local governments and tailor support to specific needs expected to arise from their
infrastructure reconstruction activities in the medium term. The proposed project includes two
main components described below, in addition to unallocated finds.

Component 1: Financingof Infrastructure Reconstructionand RehabilitationInvestments
(US$273.0 million)

This component will finance individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local
governments - 934o f which are benefiting from IREP TA, and 335 o f which are receiving
technical advice from existing consulting arrangements until January 2007, but will cease to do so
thereafter - as well as strategic investments at the provincial level. Each individual infrastructure
subproject will be co-financed by BRR and MDF resources. This component will provide
resources for civil works and supply & installation o f equipment in subprojects in the following
sectors: roads, ports, water and sanitation, drainage, flood control, coastal protection and
restoration o f major irrigation canals. Subprojects will be identified and selected in accordance



34Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Daya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil, and Simueleu inthe
West Coast and Nias andNias Selatan inNias.
35Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, and Sabang.


                                                  49

with the criteria and the subproject cycle identified in Annexes 3 (Institutional Design and
ImplementationArrangements) & 4 (Subproject Eligibility Criteria).

Local and provincial governments, with support from BRR and IREP consultants will prepare
Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs), and Provincial Government Annual
Investment Plans (PGIPs). This component will fund some o f the infrastructure subprojects
contained in the LGIPs and PGIPs. To avoid delays in making progress on the 2007 investment
plan, REP-financed IPM consultants will review the subprojects already under preparation by
BRR and other donors and identify subprojects for IRFF financing. All subprojects financed by
IRFF will be required to meet eligibility criteria based on sector and geographic location,
technical, economic and financial criteria, and environmental safeguards.

All confirmed subprojects will be notified to-the local governments. After agreement, an MOU
between the BRR and local and provincial governments will include confirmation o f the
subprojects the BRR will finance in the LGIPPGIPs through IRFF. Local/provincial
governments will then prepare detailed design and bidding documents for IRFF-financed
subprojects with the help o f IREP consultants. These IREP consultants will be responsible for
utilizing the IPMteam's contract designs to ensure highquality standards are applied. Subproject
implementation will be the responsibility o f satkers.

Procurement support and capacity building. The IPMProcurement Support Team from IREP TA
will provide overall guidance to BRR for procurement o f subprojects confirmed to receive
BFWMDFfinancing. For 2007, procurement will be centralized andundertaken by BRRwith the
participation o f satkers. In 2007, these satkers will be nominated by local governments and
appointed by BRR. These satkers will report to BRR and will follow the project procurement
procedures and will be supported the IPM procurement team who will be part o f the evaluation
committees. In later years, it i s expected that satkers will be nominated and appointed by local
governments. However, planning & quality control o f procurement under this project will always
be the responsibility o f BRR. Consultant teams will work alongside satkers to assist in the
implementation and supervision o f infrastructure reconstruction.

During Year 1 of the project, IPMconsultants will conduct a procurement capacity assessment
that will determine the extent to which procurement will be decentralized to the local and
provincial governments in later years o f the project. The procurement services o f the IPM will
include supporting the BRR for carrying procurement in the first 12-18 months o f the
implementation o f subprojects while in parallel assessing the procurement capacity at the local
government level, developing this capacity through a combination o f training programs, on the
job training, and gradual transfer o f procurement responsibilities to the local governments. The
BRR will remain responsible for the quality-of procurement at the local government level and
will continue to monitor these procurement activities and will be represented in the evaluation
committees.

The minimumsize o f subprojects financed by IRFF at the local government level i s US$300,000
and at the provincial government level i s U S $ l million. The methods o f procurement under this
project will be as follows: International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for all works
packages estimated to cost more than US$5 million each and goods packages estimated to cost
US$200,000 each. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for all other packages.
Since the minimum size o f a contract i s US$300,000 there will be no need for shopping. Direct
award, if any, will be in accordance with the requirements o f paragraph 3.6 o f the Guidelines for
Procurement and will be subject to Bank's no objection.



                                                50

Component 2: Targeted Support to Infrastructure Subproject Planning, Design,
Supervision, andImplementation Oversight (US$3.0 million)

This component will provide targeted and need-based TA to local and provincial governments for
identification, design and preparation o f infrastructure reconstruction subprojects, as well as for
enhancing the quality o f subproject implementationoversight.

This component will provide assistance to Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang that are currently
receiving TA from existing consulting arrangements for subproject identification and design until
January 2007 beyond this timeframe36.This component aims at strengthening the ability o f the
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang local governments to improve the provision o f
infrastructure in their respective jurisdictions by providing technical experts to assist them in
planning and subproject identification, subproject design, tender documents, procurement,
safeguards compliance, implementation, construction supervision, and monitoring. This
component will also finance TA for transition to a post-BRR timeframe and institutional
arrangements beyond April 2009, including extension o f TA provided under IREP, and capacity
building and infrastructure asset maintenance programs for local and provincial governments.
This TA will be provided under one contract, estimated to be US$2 million and will be selected
usingQuality and Cost Based selection (QCBS).

In order to enhance the quality o f subproject implementation oversight, LRFF will support
undertaking a performance and financial audit o f the project financial statements carried by the
country's Supreme Audit Institution (BPK). A reputable auditor, acceptable to the Bank, will be
recruited to carry this work under the supervision o f BPK. Ideally, the auditor should visit all
kabupaten that implement the project activities. The related external audit cost will be included in
this project component. Selection o f this auditor will follow least cost selection method. The
contract will be for the lifetime o f the project subject but phased on a yearly basis subject to
satisfactory performance o f the consultant.

All procurement activities under this component will be carried out by the BRR and supported by
the IPM consultant under IREP. The methods for selection o f consultants will be Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) for all assignments estimated to cost more then US$200,000, while
selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications (CQS) will be used for contracts estimated to cost
less than US$200,000.

Unallocatedfunds (US$lS.O million). Inorder to mitigate uncertainty in the implementation o f
this project, a portion o f the project funds is not allocated to any specific component. These
unallocated resources may be used for one or more o f the following: (i)extending IREP TA (a)
beyond June 2009 to continue supporting the implementation, construction supervision and
performance monitoring o f subprojects financed by IRFF, and (b) to support BRR's mandate o f
supervision, performance monitoring and quality assurance o f the infrastructure reconstruction
program; (ii)financing TA activities necessary to help local and provincial governments prepare


36 There will be no replication of TA funding between IREP, IRFF and other existing consulting
arrangements.During appraisal, additional TA needs, similar to those addressed by IREP TA (including
planning, design, and constructionsupervision) were identifiedfor Banda Aceh, Aceh Besar and Sabang.
TA activities in these districts were being supported by existing consulting arrangements fimded by the
French government, and were scheduled to end `in January 2007. However, after appraisal, the French
government announced its commitment to extending TA in Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang. If and
whena commitment of funds is madebythe Frenchgovernment, an equivalentamount of funds for this TA
will beput inthe unallocatedfinds under IRFF.


                                                   51

for the transition to a post-BRR era by undertaking greater responsibility o f infrastructure
program management based on the REP-financed BRR transition strategy, detailing institutional
arrangements beyond the scheduled expiration o f BRR's mandate agreed by GO1and the Bank by
June 2008; and (iii)financing additional subprojects in the event the implementation o f all
subprojects proceeds as planned.

C.       Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement and procurement
management

The BRR was established in M a y 2005, and staffed with specialized and experienced personnel
drawn from throughout Indonesia. The BRR has ministerial status in Indonesia, and has
undertaken a wide variety o f aspects in the reconstruction program, working closely with and
coordinating the activities o f provincial and local governments, NGOs, bilaterals and
multilaterals. A special regulation o f the President (Kepress 70 o f year 2005) was issued on
November 2005 amending the presidential decree (Kepress) 80/2003 on public procurement. This
special regulation i s specific for procurement for funds managed by BRR. It allows for some
flexibility and in particular the housing sector. Some o f the special provisions o f this Kepress
allowing direct contracting has expired end o f June 2006. It i s worth mentioning that this Kepress
also allows use o f non civil servants to carry procurement.

BRR has carried some procurement activities so far, mainly in the housing sector using direct
award. It provides the funds for the local goyernments who carry procurement. Final award of
contracts should be still subject to BRR approval. However, this may not have been consistently
observed by all saktars.

BRRhas expressed its concern on the capacity, timeliness and quality o fprocurement at the local
government level, particularly in certain cases where there has been suspicion o f collusion. In
addition, political pressures weaken the capacity o f most local governments to undertake
procurement. As a result, BRR has considered several options for implementing procurement
under the project. It was agreed that that there i s need to centralize procurement with the
participation o f the concerned local governments. BRR had developed a structure for a central
procurement unit (CPU) and i s currently staffing it with qualified personnel to carry the
procurement for funds provided by BRR. The unit will be headed by an experienced BRR staff
member who has knowledge o f Bank and international donors financed projects. The CPU will
have five procurement managers, five assistant managers and two assistants per manager. All the
procurement managers have to be certified to carry procurement in accordance with the current
national certification system. The BRR will also have access to a pool o f experts and procurement
certified civil servants who then can use on an on-call basis. It i s to be noted that this plan i s still
not fully achieved.

The IPMconsultants will have a dedicated team o f procurement specialists with international and
national experience who will assist BRR in all procurement activities. In particular, reporting
bidding documents, procurement plans, capacity building and monitoring o f procurement
activities at the local level.

BRR intendedto install and use an e-procurement system. The system they plannedto use is the
e-procurement system in the city o f Sorabaya for use in their procurement including under this
project. The targeted date for installing and usingthis systemwas October 2006 with the intention
o f transferring the knowledge and use o f this system to the local governments at a later stage.
However, progress on this initiative i s slow. A Bank staff expert in e-procurement has assessed



                                                  52

the current system in the city o f Sorabaya in July 2006 and has found it to be acceptable for use
subject to addressing some recommendations to deal with some o f the weaknesses inthe system.

BRR has two objectives on the procurement level: the short and urgent one is to implement the
project and the longer term one i s to develop procurement capacity at the local level. This will be
achieved by BRR carrying the procurement for all the technical assistance, all strategic and
provincial subprojects, all procurement using ICB under the project and all subprojects for the
first 12 months with the direct assistance o f the I P M consultants' procurement team. The
procurement services o f the IPM will include supporting the BRR in directly carrying
procurement for the first 12 months while in parallel assessing the procurement capacity at the
local government level to determine the current benchmark, developing this capacity through a
combination o f training programs, on the job training, and gradual transfer o f procurement
responsibilities to the local governments inthe second phase o f the project.

Once the capacity development plan o f a local procurement i s completed, another assessment will
be carried to certify that procurement can be transferred to the local government. The BRR will
request the Bank's no-objection to this decision and will reflect this in a revised procurement
plan. The BRRwill still be responsible for all procurement interms o f preparing the procurement
plan, ensuring use o f appropriate methods, following all applicable procurement procedures in
managing the process, evaluating and awarding bids. BRR, with the assistance o f IPM, will
continue to monitor all procurement activities, have a representative in the evaluation committees
at the local level and receive a copy o f all bids submitted. Since the Aceh province has an
established track in conducting procurement l o r infrastructure projects (around US$lOO million
duringlast year), it will be the first case to be assessedby BRR and IPMto serve as a model to be
agreed with the Bank and followed for the other governments. The Bank will provide a sample o f
a Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (PCAR) for guidance, but the BRR and IPM will
develop their own.

As it is important to clarify the roles o f the PMinthe procurement process to all teams involved
in procurement, a mechanism for carrying the procurement process has been agreed with BRR
and i s included in the flowchart at the end o f this annex. Inthe interim, BRR i s preparing several
packages and intends to launch them prior to the mobilization o f IPM.Interim arrangements will
be inplace to manage the process through the CPU and with the support o f the REP procurement
advisor recruited by DFID to support BRR. The mechanism to be used as an interim and when
IPMismobilizedis as follows:




                                                   53

           Tasks            Agreed mechanismfor IREF            Interim Arrangementuntil
                                                                     IPMis mobilized
  Procurement Plan          Preparedby IPMand approved        Preparedby CPU
                            byBRR
  Biddingdocuments          Prepared by IPM                   Preparedby BRR technical
                                                              teams with support from CPU
                                                              and IREPprocurement advisor
  Setting evaluation        Dedicatedevaluation               Three dedicated evaluation
  committees                committees with members from      committees with members from
                            satkar, kabupaten, BRR staff      satkar, kabupaten ,BRR staff
                            and two members from IPM          and two members from IREP
                            (procurement and technical)       procurement advisor
                                                              (txocurement and technical)
 Advertisement              CPU supported by IPM              CPU
  Evaluation o f bids/      Carried by the dedicated          Carriedby the dedicated
 proposals                  committees                        committees
 Approval o f evaluation    BRR after IPMclearance            CPU
 reports
  Contract Signature        Satkars                           Satkars
 Contract Management        Satkars assisted by IPM           Satkars assisted by IPM(when
                                                             mobilized)
 Contract Monitoring                                          CPU assisted by IREP
                                                             procurement advisor
 Seeking no-objections      CPU                              CPU
 and communicating with
 the Bank


This mechanism will be reviewed periodically to assess its effectiveness. The interim
arrangements will be assessed in January, to identify any issues that should be addressed
enhanced when IPMi s on board, and shares lessons learned.

Below are some key issues facing the project and mitigating measures to address risks associated
withthe project:




                                             54

Issue/Risk                                                           Mitigatingmeasure
Low Capacity of the procuring unit in the selectionprocess (i)On going recruitment                    process will strengthen the
of these large contracts:                                             procurement unit at BRR.
The procurement unit in BRR is still under development and (ii)I P M consultants will support the BRR in carrying
requires strengthening.                                               procurement.
                                                                     (iii) withthesupportofIPM,willcarryanassessment
                                                                          BRR,
Capacity inprocurement at the local level is weak to absent.         and develop capacities o f the local governments.
Procurement Delays: selection process o f consultants is (i)             Enhancing o f capacity by the I P M will help inexpediting the
usually lengthy in several projects in Indonesia due to low process.
capacity and required approvals o f the results o f the evaluation (ii)  The approval by the relevant authority will be expedited due
by the relative authority (ies). This usually leads to problems in to the fact that the structure in BRR is not complex, the
validities o f proposals, availability o f staff, proposed prices, evaluation committee(s) will be reporting directly to the deputy
delay inthe investment phase and more importantly opening the director who is managing this project.
process for potential interventionand manipulation.                  (iii) isurgentneedfortheseservicesandtheleadership
                                                                          There
                                                                     o f BRR i s highly committed to this project and the investment
                                                                    lphase which is dependent on this.
Procurement planning and management: this will also The I P Mwill act as technical advisor to the BRR inplanning
                                                                    I
propose a major challenge to BRR. It will require a skilled and and managingprocurement.
dedicated team to prepare the plan, manage the multiple
procurement activities.
Capacity of Local Governments in procurement planning (i)The capacity assessment and development measures will
and implementationand coordinationwith BRR:                          help inupgrading this.
The capacity o f local governments is a major risk and (ii)A detailed responsibilities matrix will be developed b
especially when the sakters begin to operate outside BRR.       .    negotiations to clearly specify the responsibilities o f BRR
                                                                     Local governments and the I P M consultants. This will also b
                                                                     reflected inthe legal agreement.
Corruption and Collusive Practices: This is a nation wide (i)There will be full disclosure o f advertisement opportunitie
issue, which normally involves both biddersiconsultants and the and contract awards. Upon completion o f a procuremen
government officials. The general procurement environment is process, the BRR is required to publicize in public domal
weak, and the practice of offering and accepting bribes and information related to the summary o f evaluation report, th
kickbacks i s    widespread.    The   low salary     structure   o f name o f contractoriconsultant (long list, shortlist, and th
government employees is also an enabling factor.                     awardees whichever applicable), the description o f services
                                                                     and the amount o f contract.
BRR has a unique nature as it is an entity that i s entrusted with (ii)  BRRwill publicize the complaint handling database for th
:arrying a very important humanitarian task. There is the project               and     the   result   o f   the     performance     o
:xpectation that its staff act with the highest integrity. BRR consultantsicontractors,         as   well   as    sanctions  o n  poo
ictions are under the scrutiny o f the national government, local performance/corrupt/faudulentpractices.
xovinces, communities and donors.                                    (iii) consultantshidderswhointendtoparticipateinanyo
                                                                         All
                                                                    the procurement packages under this project are required tl
The salaries o f BRR staff are also higher then the average disclose information upfront, if any o f their members o f th
government staff. Finally, BRR has set its own anticorruption board o f directodcommissionaires and/or their immediat
'earn. Therefore, due to the nature o f BRR and the added family members, is a member o f the respective procuremen
scrutiny that the size o f these contracts will attract, corruption committee andor i s a director inBRR.
isks are assessed to be lower then average projects.                (iv) All evaluation committee members will sign an integrit:
                                                                    pact and will disclose any information if any o f their immediatl
                                                                    family members have any working relationship with the firm
                                                                    submittingproposals.
                                                                    (v) All procurement that will be conducted at the local
                                                                    governments will be monitored by BRR including having a
                                                                    representative inthe evaluation committees and maintaining a
                                                                .   record o f all bids.
                                                                    AnAnti CorruptionAction Plan(ACAP)has beendeveloped
                                                                    and is included inthe PAD.



                                                                 55

Despite the enhanced measures by BRR, and support by IPM, the overall project risk for
procurement i s High.

Procurementplan.Due to the nature o f the project and the fact that the pipeline projects are still
in the process of identification, a tentative Procurement Plan for project implementation was
developed by negotiations. The plan will be further developed after the start o f the project. The
Plan would be available inthe project file. It will also be available in the Project's database and in
the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the project
team on a semi annual basis, or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs,
progress in identifying subprojects and any modification to the implementation o f procurement
arrangements due to improvements in institutional capacity and the role o f local governments in
procurement.

Frequencyof procurementsupervision. Inaddition to the regular prior review supervision to be
carried out from Bank offices, supervision missions will visit the field to carry out post review o f
procurement actions twice a year.

D.       ProcurementArrangement Details

International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for all works packages estimated to cost
more than US$5 million each and goods packages estimated to cost more than US$200,000 each.
National Competitive Bidding(NCB) will be used for all other packages. Since the minimumsize
o f a subproject i s US$300,000 there will be no need for shopping.

Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications will be used for assignments estimated to cost less
then US$200,000, while Quality and Cost Based Selection will be used for assignments estimated
to cost more then US$200,000. Least Cost selection will be used for the selection o f the external
auditor.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$400,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely of qualified national consultants in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Prior review by the Bank will be reflected in the procurement plan. In principle, the following
will be subject to the Bank's prior review:


0   Goods and Works: all ICBs and the first three NCBs for goods and the first three NCBs for
    works under the project;
0   Selection o f Consultants: all selection process for packages estimated to cost more than
    US$200,000, and the first three selection processes usingCQ,




                                                 56

          ANNEX 7. FINANCIALMANAGEMENT                AND DISBURSMENTARRANGEMENTS

A.      Introduction

The InfrastructureReconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF) is designed to, among other things,
co-finance investments o f US$273 million, o f which US$82 million will be funded by MDF and
US$191 millionby BRR.The project will be implemented over three years, from January 2007 to
January 2010. IRFF will support and use the same management structure o f REP that provides
technical assistance for infrastructure program management, planning, design and construction
management.

This financial management assessment (FMA)should be readtogether with FMA o f IREP. Since
the project will use the same implementingagency and the financial management system. In
addition, REP will finance FM consultant who will provide technical assistance o f IRFF
implementation. The financial management assessment indicates several additional issues related
to IRFF implementation and financial management that need attention:


    0   Implementation Arrangement.
    0   External Audit
    0   Internal Audit
    0   Budgeting.
    0   Flow offund
    0   Accounting and Reporting

Some risk mitigation steps have been proposed through FM consulting contract to assist BRR on
financial management, including payment verification, accounting and reporting. BRR internal
audit should fully activate and include the project activities in their work program. In addition,
the external audit i s required to increase the audit sample o f the project activities.

Overall, the project financial management risk i s assessed as being substantial. This assessment
has concluded that with the implementation o f the action plan, the risks will be substantially
mitigated, and the proposed financial management arrangements will satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirements under OP/BP10.02 and are adequate to provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate
and timely information on the status o f the grant required by the Bank. More details o f the
financial management assessment are given below.

B.      RiskAssessmentSummary

1.      A detailed analysis o f financial management risks arising from the country situation, the
        proposed project entities and specific project features and related internal controls has
        been completed during the assessment, and i s summarized below. These risks have been
        rated on a scale from High, Substantial, Moderate and Low.


Risks                        Assessment    SummaryComments andRiskMitigationMeasures
[High/Substantial/
Moderate /Low]
A. Inherent Country
Risks
1. Budgetaryprocedures             S       The governmenthas a newbudgetarysystemthat hasbeen
                                           implementedsince FY 05. Implementationof a new system



                                                  57

                                 created delay on budget execution. MOF and executing agency
                                 need to speed up the process to issue all detail budget document
                                 and related circular letters.
2. Public accounting &       S   Public sector follows single entry and cashbasis with a partially
reporting                        computerized system. An Accounting Standards Board has
                                 issued accounting standards o n modified accrual basis; these
                                 have been adopted by Presidential decree. Implementationo f
                                 standards remains a challenge.
3. Audit arrangement         H   B P K has legal mandate as external auditor o f the government
                                 budget. Overlapping assignment with internal auditor agencies
                                 exists. Risksarise from integrity and limited capacity o f the
                                 BPK.

A. Entity specific risks
1. Implementing Entity     M     BRRis specialagency establishedby PERPU212005. A new
Organization                     structure is established inOctober 05, but decision to appoint
                                 director level and below, have not decided yet. Project
                                 management capacity needs to be strengthened.
2. Accounting capacity,    M     BRR follows government accounting system. Accounting
staffing.                        capacity is adequate, Currently they have three staff in SPM unit
                                 and four staff inAccounting Unit.All staff has S1 bachelor
                                 degree inaccounting and four o f them are accountant. Due to
                                 sharply increasing transaction volume inFY 06, BRR's FM
                                 capacity will be constrained, and they need to hire additional
                                 qualified staff inSPM Unit.
3. Internal Control        H     The consultant outputs are diverse and not easily measurable.
                                 The contracts are complex and large. Therefore, the risk o f weak
                                 internal control overpayment may arise, unless the contracts are
                                 clearly worded and BRR has strong project management.
4. Flow o f funds          M     The flow o f fund will follow budget documents decision. It uses
                                 GO1Treasury system for on-budget. Based on GO1regulation,
                                 except U P (petty cash) and small payment, payment above IDR
                                 5 Million use bank transfers. BRR has two bank accounts for
                                 U P and spent IDR 600 million through both accounts (less than
                                 3% otthe total budgetrealization).
5. InternalAudit                 BRRhas established internalaudit department inearly 2006.
                                 Currently the internal audit department has 7 staff included the
                                 Department Director. Internal audit manual and department
                                 working plan has beenprepared.
6. ExternalAudit             S   B P K is external auditor for BRRbudget. Currently B P K is
                                 conducting the first audit for BRR financial statement (FY 05).
                                 Risks arise from integrity and limitedcapacity o f the auditors.
7. Information systems;      S   BRR use government system (SAI) to prepare the financial
Reporting and monitoring.        report. The first BRR report for FY 05 was submitted to MOF
                                 timely. SA1 raw data basically is payment order (SP2D) as
                                 budget realization. Chart o f account i s established during budget
                                 preparation. However, SA1 is not integrated system and does not
                                 have a feature on contractkommitted budget. IBMhas provided
                                 technical assistance to develop additional features on contract

OverallEntityspecific
Risk
B. Project Specific Risks
1. Flow o f funds          M     Flow o f fund system will follow normal government mechanism
                                 for on budget and all payments made through GO1treasury.


                                         58

2. Budgeting                     H         The project contracts will be on-budget. BRR need to prepare
                                           the budget documentprior to negotiationanddiscuss with MOF.
3. Accounting &                  M         SA1does not have a feature to report expenditures come from
Reporting                                  foreign donors. BRR will prepare a separate financial
                                           monitoring report and submit to the Bank on quarterly basis.
                                           Project financial reportmaydevelopthroughexcel sheets.
4. Procurement                   H         To Select and get quality consulting firm will be a challenge.
                                           High quality consultant will assist BRR to monitor and

5. InternalAudit                  S      I The Internal Audit department is new and untested, though a
                                           work plan is ready and pending approval. The internal auditor
                                           will review and verify payment validation, especially for
                                           paymentonreimbursableexpenditures.
6. ExternalAudit                  S        BPK may assign acceptable auditor to the Bank to audit the
                                           project financial statement.
Overallprojectspecific            S
Risk


C.       ImplementingArrangements

BRR has established a separate project management unit under deputy o f infrastructure for IREP
as well as IRFF.Implementation o f individual infrastructure subprojects at the local level will be
the responsibility o f satkers. In 2007, these stakers will be nominated by local governments and
appointed by BRR.Inlater years, it is expected that satkers will be nominated and appointed by
local governments. The project implementing unit in the centre and local level will be assisted by
project management consultants. The deputy o f infrastructure will oversee all project activities.
IRFFactivities will bereviewedbyBRR infrastructure board every six months.

Budgeting

IRFFwill follow a normal annual government budget mechanism. The budget authority (Satker)
inlocal level will work under BRR supervision and oversight. Project Management Unit(Satker)
in local level will be appointed by BRR throbgh fit and proper test procedures. Satkers in local
level will report and responsible to BRR.

As other government projects, funds under this project needbe put inthe government budget and
follow existing government budgeting process. Each individual infrastructure subproject will be
co-financed by BRR and MDF according to a 70:30 ratio, and will be recorded as such in the
budget documents.

Accounting& Reporting

The project will use government accounting software (SAI) to record project transactions. An
additional feature o f monitoring contract commitments in the accounting software has been
developed and will be used in the project implementation. A separate worksheet will be prepared
to serve the reporting needs o f the Bank outlined in the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs). The
grant expenditures and activities will be reported to the Bank under the project IFRs on a
quarterly basis. Satkers in local level will submit the project IFRs to P M U in Banda Aceh for
report consolidation. The financial report may be prepared using a separate stand-alone
spreadsheet. This would include information on procurement, physical progress o f budgeted




                                                  59

activities and financial source and use o f funds. Formats for these were agreed before
negotiations.

Quarterly financial reports should be received at the Bank no later than 30 days after the end o f
each quarter. To ensure consistency o f the IFRs with GO1 reporting, the aggregates in the
financial reports will be reconciled periodically with the aggregates in the SA1 and Special
Account. All financial transactions should be recorded properly supported with adequate evidence
as intended according to the Grant objectives. The audited annual financial statements should be
made publicly available to ensure transparency.

InternalControlsandInternalAudit

The internal audit department will responsible also to review internal control at all Satker inlocal
level that implement the project budget. The internal audit unit should recruit additional staff (if
necessary) to supervise the project activities. The internal auditor should conduct a review on
internal control system inthe implementing Satker, including payment validation. Copies o f these
reports should be made available to the Bank upon request.

ExternalAudit

BRR will prepare special purposesproject financial statements annually inspecified formats. The
financial report will be based on summary o f financial transaction under this grant. The project
financial report will be subject to a performance and financial audit by Supreme Audit Institution
(BPK)which may sub-contract this work to a reputable auditor acceptable to the Bank. A copy o f
the project audited financial statements, along'with the management letters issued by the auditors,
ifany,willbesubmittedtotheBanknolaterthansixmonthsaftertheendoffiscalyear.

The Terms o f Reference (TOR) for the project audit was agreed by the Bank with the Recipient
before negotiations. The audit report will include an opinion on the reliability o f the project
financial statements, including the validity and eligibility o f transactions through dedicated
special account used for channeling MDF fund. The audit reports will be made accessible to the
public.

DisbursementArrangements

The applicable disbursement methods include: 1) Advance; 2) Direct payment; and 3)
Reimbursement.

Advance method would be used to facilitate disbursements for eligible expenditures. A
Designated Account (DA) denominated in U S dollars will be opened in the Central Bank (BI) or
a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank under the name o f MOF. The management of the DA
would be under the responsibility DG Treasury, M o F and thus the application for applying for an
advance and reporting on uses o f the advances to the DA would be prepared by P M U and
submitted to the Bank through DG Treasury, MOF. The ceiling o f the advance provided to a
Designated Account (DA) i s $10,000,000.

Application for applying for an advance and/or reporting on the uses o f advances to the DA
would be submitted, monthly or as required. Such an applicationwould be supported by: (i)     list
payments for contracts under Bank's prior-review and records evidencing such expenditures, or
(ii)statement o f expenditures (SOEs) for all other expenses, and (iii) reconciliation statement.
                                                                      DA
All documentation for expenditures submitted'for disbursement will be retainedat the


                                                60

implementingunit and shall be made available to the auditors for the annual audit and to the Bank
and its representatives ifrequested.

Another acceptable method o fwithdrawing funds under this arrangement i s the direct payment
method, involvingdirect payments to suppliers for works, goods and services upon request form.
The Disbursement Letter will stipulate the minimumapplication value for direct payment.

When the PMUhas the capability o f producing timely quarterly InterimFinancial Reports (IFRs),
reporting on use o f funds would be based on the IFR and advance to the DA would be made for
six monthly projected expenditures. The Bank may issue a revised disbursement letter to inform
the recipient o f such a change o f disbursement arrangement. Preparation and presentation o f IFR
will be requiredregardless ofthe selected disbursement (report-based disbursement).

Retroactive financing will be provided under the project for up to 20% o f the MDF grant amount
(i.e., US$20,000,000) to finance eligible expenditures for project activities incurred after June 20,
2006. The services, civil works, and goods .to be eligible for retroactive financing should be
contracted following World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits'' dated M a y 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004. The Bank will review all procurement procedures used for
retroactive financing.

Allocation o f the grant proceeds and financing i s as below.

                                   Allocation of GrantProceeds

                                                       Amount of Grant      YOof expendituresto
              CategoryDescription                         (US$ eqv.)             be financed

1. Goods and Civil Works for Part 1 o f the               82,000,000                30%
Droiect
2. Consulting service                                      3,000,000                100%
3. Unallocated                                            15,000,000

                     TOTAL                                100,000,000

SupervisionPlan

Supervision o f project financial management will be performed on a risk-based approach at least
once a year. The supervision will review the project's financial management system, including
but not limited to accounting, reporting and internal control. The financial management
supervision will be conducted by financial management specialist and Bank consultants.

D.       Action Plan& Conditionality

Action taken prior to negotiations:
      1. BRR submission o f shortlist o f FMConsulting firms
     2. Financial report format to be agreed between BRR and the Bank

Action to be taken prior to disbursement:
      1. BRR signingo f contract with FMConsulting firm



                                                61

Actions to be followedup duringimplementation(To be reflectedas Other
Covenantsin the Grant Agreement):

   1. BRR will appoint BPK as external auditor for this project and BPK may sub-contract
      work to private audit firms acceptable to the Bank; such contracts should be completed
      no later than 6 months after signingof the Grant Agreement. The project audit reports
      should be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after end o f each financial year.




                                            62

               ANNEX8. ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEWORK
                                            AND

A.       Introduction

This safeguards framework covers two inter-related elements o f Multi Donor Fund (MDF)
support being provided to the Aceh and Nias Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency's (BRR)
Strategy for district and province infrastructure reconstruction, namely: the Infrastructure
Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) and Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility
(IRFF). The IREP provides world class consulting services in infrastructure program
management, planning, design, and construction management. The IRFF provides further
complementary TA to IREP as well financial resources to fill the financing gap in infrastructure
reconstruction that has emerged as a result o f inefficient allocation o f resources for Aceh and
Nias. Taken together these two projects will provide strategic planning, detailed engineering
design and construction supervision support, as well as US$273 million in subproject financing.

Given that both IREP and IRFF will be implemented by the same P M U and IPM team, it i s
logical that a single safeguards framework i s developed covering both grant agreements.
Accordingly, this safeguards framework i s based on and replaces the framework already
prepared, appraised and negotiated under IREP. It remains the same in intent and substance
providing further clarifications only in terms o f funding mechanisms and arrangements. It also
takes account o f the increased scope o f support for infrastructure reconstruction being provided
under IRFF to include: three new districts, including Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang; as
well as eligibility for IRFF financing o f a number o f strategic province level and other
subprojects prepared by other donor agencie~/organizations~~.

B.       Objectivesof the Framework

The environmental and social safeguards framework provides general policies and guidelines to
serve the following objectives:

         Protect human health;
         Prevent environmental degradation as a result o f either individual investments or their
         cumulative effects;
    0    Enhance positive environmental outcomes;
         Avoid or minimize land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, and where this can not
         be avoided, provide compensation based on market price and assistance to rehabilitate
         livelihoods based on consultation with those affected;
    0    Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen community social
         cohesiveness.

Mechanisms for implementation o f the framework are built in to the project oversight structures,
guidelines and tools, as well as the terms of reference for the proposed Infrastructure Progam
Management (IPM) team, and associated geographically focused teams (West Coast, Nias, Aceh
Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang and Province level).

It will be the responsibility o f the IPMteam to support the BRR in developing detailed social and
environmental management procedures for this framework, to be integrated into the Project




37UNDP (Ports) and DHV (Sea Defences).


                                                 63

Implementation Plan (PIP). The safeguard policies triggered include OP 4.0 1 on Environmental
Assessment, OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement and OP 4.10 on IndigenousPeoples.

                                         Safeguard Policies

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                      Yes               N o
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                        [XI               [I
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                    [I                [XI
 Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        [I                [XI
 Cultural Property (OPN 11-03, being revised as OP 4.11)          [ ]               [XI
 Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            [XI               [I
 Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)                                     [XI               [I
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                             [I                [XI
 Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                     [I                1x1
 Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                         [I                [XI
 Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)               [I                [XI


C.       Environmental and Social Issues

Environmental Issues. The IREP/IRFF project entail the procurement o f `services' to support
infrastructure reconstruction which will have the effect o f programming significant levels
financing both from the BRR's own budget and additional financing made available through the
Multi Donor Fundfor Aceh and Nias. Consequently, the consultant teams that will be engaged
under the project will need to have a good understanding o f related environmental and social
impacts and how such impacts can mitigated via appropriate planning, design, and
implementationmeasures.

Assessment o f the impacts o f infrastructure reconstruction first needs to be set within the context
o f existing environmental conditions, particularly along the West Coast and in Nias. It i s
important to understand, for example, that reconstruction will be impacting on already stressed
environmental conditions. Many coastal areas have been severely damaged by the tsunami both
interms o f marine and terrestrial environments. Inmany places coastlines have been physically
altered, particularly the inter-tidal zones. Shallow coral reefs have been affected resulting from
the large amounts o f solid waste, silts and clays generated by the waves. Mud laden residues
have infiltrated both man made and natural water sources, and blocked drainage lines. Many o f
the heavy clay soils that predominate in the coastal region have been inundated with salt water.
In Nias large tracts o f coastal land have been lifted up and an estimated 250 ha o f coral reefs are
reportedto have been destroyed. With the loss o f sea defenses previously built up areas have been
reclaimed by the tides leading to coastal inundation and the recreation o f marshy areasjuxtaposed
with human settlement.

Furthermore it should be recognized that existing conditions are being further impacted by the
reconstruction process that has been underway since early 2005 - now increasing in scope and
intensity. As indicated in the initial drafts o f on-going SEA work carried out by Bappenas,
existing critical pressure points include:

        impacts o f housing construction through extraction o f raw materials including wood,
        sand, coral and clay, leading to multiple effects on surface water features, coastal
        geomorphology, protected areas and watershed protection areas;




                                                  64

          impacts o f housing construction overwhelming capacity o f water and sanitation services
          to keep up with demand;
          spill over waste from existing dump sites and establishment o f new sites without due
          consideration o f externalities;
          relaxation o f environmental controls and building standards associated with road
          construction, leading to ponding, landslides and other localized construction type
          impacts;
          urgent needs o f livelihood recovery leading to overexploitation for sea and pond-based
          aquaculture;
          illegal logging achieving social legitimacy in the interests o f rapid reconstruction, while
          actually targeting markets outside o f Aceh;
          social conflict over land expropriation (housing, road reconstruction, mangrove
          reforestation) with insufficient compensation and due process.

Consequently infrastructure reconstruction, along with ensuing environmental impacts, takes its
place among many other efforts underway all o f which will leave their mark on the natural
systems that must also sustain the future economic growth o f the region.

Social Issues. In general the infrastructure subprojects that will be designed and implemented
with support from IREPIIRFF will entail replacement o f pre-existing infrastructure. As a result,
the level o f associated social risks i s likely to be limited. However, it i s important for planning
processes, including prioritization o f infrastructure needs, to reflect community needs and
specifically those o f vulnerable groups (such as women and the poorest in society).

In some cases land acquisition and resettlement will be unavoidable leading to a range o f
challenges associated with clarifying land titles and ensuring that adequate and timely
compensation i s provided. Thousands o f people still remain missing after the tsunami while
others still live in the campsharracks or have moved to other regions. Although most intend to
return to their holdings, the timing varies. Therefore in many cases landowners are not available
to discuss land acquisition issues leading to project delays or later conflicts during project
implementation relating to disputed land claims.

A further challenge is in dealing with the tenure rights defined under the customary and
traditional codes, particularly in Nias which i s dominated by traditional tenure systems.        For
example traditional codes do not clearly define rights for women to inherit land, and a challenge
may be how to ensure that female heads o f households retain rights to receive compensation that
i s due.

Ensuring that infiastructure reconstruction addresses the particular needs o f women remains a
critical issue for consideration. Women were the most directly affected group by the tsunami and
earthquake, while at the same time having critical roles to play both in the immediate challenges
o f physicalreconstruction and in ensuring sustainable and equitable social and economic recovery
inthe longer term. Strategic planning work undertaken under IREP will need to ensure that the
specific concerns o f women inrelation to infrastructure reconstruction are taken account of, while
at the subproject level related public consultation will need to ensure that women are given a
strong voice in choices to be made over siting and design, as well as the relative prioritization o f
subprojects to be funded under each district management plan. For example, under certain
circumstances, water supply and sanitation may be considered to be a greater priority than road
rehabilitation.




                                                   65

Although the people o f Aceh are a broadly homogeneous group, there are indigenous people
living inNias requiring specific measures to be undertaken by the project to ensure that they are
meaningfully engaged in consultation processes associated with the planning, design and
construction o f proposed infrastructure.

D.       Environmental and Social Management Framework

Screening. The Government o f Indonesia's. environmental review procedures, which include
specific procedures for Aceh and N i a ~are~broadly consistent with those o f the World Bank, and
                                                ~   ,
will form the framework for the project's approach to environmental screening and mitigation.
IRFF is considered to be equivalent to World Bank "Category A", recognizing that while it will
largely involve reconstruction o f pre-existinginfrastructure, with average subproject size o f about
US$3-5 million, there could be subprojects that warrant a stricter environmental rating.
Subprojects being prepared, designed and implemented under IREP/IRFF (including any
subprojects not prepared under IREP but submitted to IRFF) will be subject to eligibility criteria
at subproject identification stage (to be developed by BRR) and further screening                    during
subproject preparation as follows:
    ---- full environmentalassessment (AMDAL)required;
         environmental management and monitoring plan (UKLKJPL) required;
         Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP)required;
         standard operating procedures (SOP) only.

All subprojects (being funded by IRFF) will be required to complete a standardized screening
form providing basic information, according to infrastructure sub-sector (roads, irrigation,
drainage, coastal defenses,        et^.)^'. Table `1 provides screening criteria for infrastructure
subprojects (generally for new alignments/land take) that will require full environmental
assessment, drawn from Decree 308/2005. Table 1 provides a selection o f criteria only. In
applying the framework the relevant annex to the Decree should be referred to directly. The
criteria represent `maximum' thresholds only (for example 2000 ha for a new irrigated area).

Full AMDALs may be required for subprojects even if they are within the maximum thresholds,
based on a technical discussion between the IPM team and local environmental authorities (for
example a new irrigated area o f 500 ha). The WBOJ safeguards staff will review screening
decisions for all subprojects and may require additional full AMDALs to be carried out as
appropriate.




38Ministry o f Environment Decree No. 30812005 on Implementation o f Environmental Impact Assessment,
Environmental Management Measures and Environmental Controlling Measures for Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Activities o f Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam and Nias Islands o f North Sumatra.
39GTZis inprocess o fpreparing standard screening formats for discussion with Province Bapedalda. The
project will review these formats as a basis for preparing appropriate internal screening procedures.


                                                     66

TransportationSector
Harbor constructionwith one o f the following facility
  a.--  massive construction jetty
        Length                                                     L 200 m
        Or area                                                    2 6.000 m2

  b. Harbor Infrastructure support (terminal, storage, container,
 etc.)
    - area                                                         I 5 ha
Dredging :
  Capital dredging
    - Volume                                                       L 250.000 m3
Reclamation
    --  Area                                                       L 25 ha
        Orvolume                                                   L 500.000 m3

Infrastructureinthe Region

Irrigation area
a. New construction area                                           L 2.000 ha

b.Intensifyingby adding area                                       11.000ha

Swampy area development, marsh landreclamation for irrigation      L 1.000ha
    needs

a. Highway construction                                            All units

b. Flyover and subway roadconstruction                             1 2 k m

Road construction andor improvement by widening out side o f
    a. Big city/metropolis
    b. Length
    c. Or area                                                     1 5 k m
                                                                   1 5 ha
    b. Middle city
    d. Length
    e. Or area
                                                                  11okm
    c. Village
    -                                                             L 10ha
        Length
                                                                  L 15km
Trash handling
a. Trash handlingby control
   sanitary landfill systems
    f. Area                                                       2 10 ha
    g. Or total capacity                                          L 10.000ton
b.Last trash Discarding
  Location (TPA) at tide



                                             67

    area
      h. landfill area                                                    I. 5 ha
      i. Ortotalcapacity                                                  L 5.000ton
 c. Transfer station
    construction
     j. Capacity                                                          L 1000todday
 d. Open dumpingLast Trash
    Discarding systems
     -    Area or total capacity                                          All units

The requirement for an AMDAL may also be triggered if a subproject i s likely to impact on
sensitive sites either by being located in close proximity to a sensitive site, or if the nature o f the
subproject activity could directly impact on a sensitive site. Key sites or areas that will be
considered `sensitive' under this framework include:

              1. National park
              2. Forest park
              3. Wildlife reserve
              4. Protected flora area
              5.  Conservation forest
              6. Watershed protection forest
              7. National cultural preserve
              8. Traditional/religiousbuildings
              9. Marine reserves
              10. Coastline and dune systems
              11. Mangrove and wetland areas
              12. IsolatedVulnerable People (I?P)
              13. Steep slopes (>40%)
              14. Commercial/residential areas
              15. Productive land
              16. Other areas as identifiedby BRR duringthe course o f implementation.

Under Decree 308/2005 there are no criteria in place for determining whether a UKLLJPLin
required. The general approach i s that for all but very low impact subprojects a UKLLJPLi s
required. A clear procedure for determining the need for UKL/UPL will be negotiated with
Provincial Bapedalda during the early stages o f the subproject. All subprojects, irrespective o f
whether an EA i s required or not, will apply standard operating procedures for environmental
management covering basic (commonly occurring) construction and operation type impacts.

Screening process. IREP/IRFF will provide consulting services to seven districts along the West
Coast o f Aceh, two districts in Nias, Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang and the Province o f Aceh.
Consulting support teams located in these areas will help local governments to prepare draft
Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs) and Provincial Government Annual
Investment Plans (PGIPs) containing lists o f subprojects, each having taken into account BRR
eligibility criteria covering technical, economic, financial, social and environmental issues.
Eligibility criteria will be prepared with support from the IPMteam. Environmental and social
criteria will be designed to help local governments to screen out highrisk subprojects at an early
stage, based on the outputs o f the environmental orientation study (see below). For example
subprojects will not be deemed eligible if they likely to: significantly impact on environmentally
or culturally sensitive sites; result in inter-basin transfer of water resources; significantly alter



                                                 68

coastal zone morphology and processes; result in large scale land-clearance; use or emit toxic
and/or hazardous wastes; or result inlarge-scale resettlement.

LGIPs will be discussed at the district level through the consultative mechanism facilitated by
Joint Secretariats comprising representatives            from local government,           BRR, and local
stakeholders. These discussions will yield a list o f candidate subprojects for funding under IRFF
based on BRR eligibility criteria. These LGIPs will be submitted by district BRR offices to the
BWIPMteam for approval for IRFFfinancing. The final list of subprojects will be shared with
the Bank for its review and statement o f no objection. A similar procedure will be applied at the
Provincial level, assisted by a Province level Joint Secretariat.

A further window (or pipeline) will be provided at the Province level for selected `strategic'
subprojects prepared by other donor agencies for funding under IRFF. Some subprojects from
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang may also have been `pre-prepared' by other organization^^^.
Such subprojects will only be considered `ready' for IRFF funding if required social and
environmental screening and review has been completed. It i s the responsibility o f relevant donor
agencies to ensure that social and environmental screening and review i s satisfactorily completed.

Local and Provincial Governments, with support o f IREP and IRFF consultants will then prepare
the selected subprojects for IRFF funding. Environmental and social screening o f `approved'
subprojects will be carried out at this point in order to determine if a LARAP, AMDAL or
UKL/UPL i s required. Screening will be based on completion in advance by local governments
o f a standard screening format for each subproject, to be developed by the IPM team based on
KepMen 3081200541.

Based on this information, the BWIPM team will screen each subproject to be funded by IRFF
involving: (i)comparison o f subproject infohation against Annex 1 o f Decree 308/2005, (ii)
assessment o f likelihood o f impact on sensitive sites, (iii)   comparison against World Bank criteria
for LARAP. Further information will be requested o f the respective local government, as
necessary, in order to complete screening. A representative from the relevant local environmental
authority will be invited participate in the screening process. Screening results will be formally
communicated to the respective local governments, to the relevant local environmental authority
and to WBOJ safeguards staff.

Environmentaland social studies. The IPM team will be responsible for engaging additional
and specialist consulting support to prepare all required social and environmental studies
(AMDAL, UKL/UPL,and LARAP). The IPMteam will award and oversee implementation of
an annual renewable contract to a fim(s) with a proven track record in carrying environmental
and social assessmentsto GO1and World Bank standards. While such firms are most likely to be
found in Java, they will be encouraged to establish partnerships with local organizations (NGOs
and academic institutions) to carry out field research functions. The selected Consultant (or
consortium) will carry out environmental and social studies at the request o f the IPMteam, on the
basis o f a request for assistance received from respective local governments for subprojects that
have been approved for IRFF funding.

It is expected that approximately 10-15% o f a total o f approximately 80 subprojects prepared
under IREPIIRFF will require AMDAL and/or LARAP, and that a further 40-50% will require


40Sogreah i s currently providing technical assistance inproject preparation for these three districts.
4'GTZ is providing assistance to Provincial Bapedalda inpreparing screening formats infour sub-sectors.
The IPMteam will assess the validity o f these formats.


                                                     69

UKLKJPL and/or abbreviated LARAP. The resulting cost estimation is presented in Table 2,
requiring approximately $1.0 million to cover costs o f the studies (not including costs o f
compensation). Should this figure prove to be insufficient (for example if there should be a
significant increase inthe volume o f funds available inthe IRFF), additional resources for studies
will be made available as part o fthe financing to be provided under the IRFF.




  AMDAL            I 40-50              0      I   - 5        3             8          320-400
  UKL/UPL            5-7                10          15        15           40          200-280
  Full LARAP         10-15              1            5        2             8           80-120
  Abbrv.             5-7                5          20         25           50          250-350

  Total                                 16     I   45    I    45          106     I   850-1.150

The procedures for preparation and completion o f AMDALs and UKL/UPLs are set out under
Ministerial Decree 308/2005.         For AMDALs, a Province or local government `Tim Teknis'
prepares and approves the AMDAL TORS,consultants carry out the studies and final review and
approval i s carried out by a Province Level AMDAL Commission. Given acknowledged lack o f
capacity within local environmental authorities to undertake this workload, the IPM will submit
draft AMDAL TORSdirectly to the Tim Teknis for approval. The IPM team will negotiate and
agree this arrangement with Province Bapedalda inadvance.

A basic format for completion o f UKL/UPLs is provided in Annex 2 to Decree 308/2005.
Completed UKL/UPL forms are submitted to the local environmental authority for review and
approval. Where land acquisition and compensation i s required, the World Bank's standard
approach to the preparation o f LARAPwill be applied, as further detailed inbelow.

Review and approval of studies. Completed environmental and social studies will be reviewed
by safeguards specialists within the geographically located consultant teams (West Coast, Nias,
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang, Province) prior to submission to the BRR/IPM team for
secondary review and comments. The BRR/IPMteam will provide consolidated comments to the
consultant for revisions to be made as necessary.

Environmental studies (AMDAL, UKLKJPL) will be submitted for formal approval to the
relevant local environmental authority. Duringthe first year o f implementation o f this TA, this i s
likely to be the Provincial Bapedalda. With time, the review and approval function may be
transferred to local governments in line with existing practices elsewhere in Indonesia, with the
exception o f province level infrastructure which will continue to be reviewed and approved at
province            The standard practice at present is for local environmental authorities to provide
approval/and or comments within 14 days. However, this remains an informal arrangement which
will be negotiated between Province Bapedalda and the IPMteam duringthe initial stages o f the
project. A sample o f AMDAL and UKL/UPL will be submitted to the WBOJ for review and
approval, at least one for each participating local government. All LARAPs will be submitted to
the WBOJ for review and approval, as further detailed in Section E.

Review and final approval o f all required environmental and social studies will be a precondition
for completion o f detailed designs (DDs) and preparation o f tender documents (TDs) by local

42A capacity assessment of local and provincial governments (to include environmental management
capabilities) will be conducted by the end of Year 1.


                                                     70

governments. Local governments will have to demonstrate how social and environmental
mitigation has been handled, and when required, integrated into detailed subproject designs and
bill o f quantities. The BWIPM team will review and sign off on all completed DDs and TDs,
including further safeguards review to ensure key impacts identified have been adequately
addressed.     This could include one or a mix o f the following: structural measures to be
incorporated into detailed engineering design; non-structural measures to be listed in specific
conditions o f contract; and Standard Operating Procedures for social and impact management
integrated into bid documents and contracts. The WBOJ will review a sample o f completed
DD/TDs,at least one for eachparticipating loqal government.

Figure A: Overview of Safeguards Screening and Review procedures (IREP/IRFF)


    SUBPROJECT PREPARATIONAND        ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIALAND                  FORMAL REVIEW AND
                                    .
          ELIGIBILITY FOR IRFF                PROCEDURES                   APPROVAL REOUIREMENTS


    SUB PROJECTELIGIBILITY            Application of criteria to screen
                                      out highrisk sub-projects
    PREPARATIONOF LOCALAND
    PROVINCIALGOVERNMENT
    ANNUALINVESTMENTPLANS
                                      Environmentaland social              Local environmentalauthority
    SELECTIONOF SUBPROJECTSFOR        screeningof selected sub-projects    engages in screening
    IRFFFUNDING                                                            Screeningresults sent to local
                                                                           environmental authority and
                                    .                                      WBoJ

                                                                          .
                                      Implementationof AMDAL,              Province Bapedaldareviews and
    PREPARATIONOF SELECTED            UKUUPL and LARAP studies as          approves UKUUPLs
    SUBPROJECTS                       required                             Province AMDAL Commission
                                                                           reviews and approves AMDALs
                                                                           Local government formally
                                                                           agrees on all LARAPs by letter
                                                                          1WBoJ reviewsand approves all
                                                                           LARAPs + a sample of
                                                                           AMDALs and UKUUPLs

                                      Integrationof study results into  .  WBOJ reviewsa sample of
    SUBPROJECTAPPROVAL              .
                                    1
                                      DDiTDs                               DD/TDpackages
                                      Compensationprovidedin
                                      advance of award of contract
                                                                          1Project completes Land
    PROCUREMENTAND CONTRACTING                                             Acquisition and Resettlement
    OF WORKS                                                           .   Monitoring Forms


                                    1 Social and environmental and         Submissionof bi-annual
    CONSTRUCTIONSUPERVISIONAND        monitoring                           monitoring reports to B W I P M
    SUBPROJECTMANAGEMENT                                                   and WBOJ



Environmental orientation study and overall strategic infrastructure planning. One o f the
main objectives o f IREP/IRFF i s to provide strategic level advice to the BRR on infrastructure
planning, focused on immediate reconstruction needs but set within the context o f a 5-10 year
development horizon. In providing strategic' planning advice, the IPM team will be structured
according to the existing BRR divisions of: transportation, water and waste, sea defenses and
drainage, and spatial planning. The IPMteam will review and consolidate existing plans, identify
gaps and introduce additional variables as necessary to ensure that infrastructure planning in
Aceh and Nias i s founded on principles o f sustainable development and social inclusion. This
will require a significant input from social and environmental advisers to be included inthe IPM
team.



                                                   71

Accordingly, one o f the initial tasks o f the'IPM team will be to carry out an environmental
orientation study based on a pressure/state/response               methodology,     to determine how
infrastructure planning can best take account o f key environmental challenges. The paper will
identify and characterize key environmental impacts o f reconstruction along the West Coast,
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang and in Nias, provide generic guidance on suitable mitigation
measures and identify how existing environmental guidelines and standards should be revised or
added to under IREP/IRFF.The paper will draw on existing Strategic Environmental Assessment
work that has been underway in Aceh and Nias since mid 2005. It will be drafted in a 'policy
brief style o fnomore than 12pages and will be translated into Bahasa Indonesian.

The paper will be used as a basis for consultations both within BRR and all participating local
governments in order to identify key implications for infrastructure planning in terms of: general
direction, prioritization, suitability o f different types of investments, institutional organization for
environmental management, capacity building needs, and resourcing.                This process will be
completed within the first 6 months o f the project feeding into the broader work o f the IPMteam
on strategic infrastructure planning.

Standards, guidelines and codes of practice. Implementation o f this framework i s dependent
upon the establishment not only o f clear procedures o f social and environmental review, but also
clear guidance and standards o f performance. Some o f this material i s already available from
GO1sources and can be readily adapted, while in other areas there are gaps. Table 3 summarizes
the existing status o f some of the guidance and standards o f environmental and social review that
will be required. The IPM team is responsible for establishing systems and procedures for
effective implementation o f this framework, to be integrated into the PIP.




 SOPs for environmental management         Available for road     IPM teamto compile additional SOPs
 o f infrastructure subprojects            projects only          covering other infrastructure sub-
                                                                  sectors
 Standard tender documents for             Available              I P Mteam to integrate SOPs for
 infrastructure subprojects                                       environmental management into
                                                                  standard tender documents
 Field-based environmental monitoring      Not available          I P M team to develop tailored to


                                                    72

 protocols for infrastructure                                   infrastructure sub-sectors. More detail
 subprojects                            1                     IIrequiredfor monitoringofAMDALs
      ~~                                                        and UKLLJPL, as opposed to SOPS.
 Monitoring Formfor Land                IAvailable from         None
 Acquisition and Resettlement            World Bank Jakarta
 Format for 3 and 6 monthreporting on Not available             I P M teamto develop tabular f o m t
 environmental monitoringresults                                indicating frequency o f monitoring
                                                                events, problems identified and
                                                                corrective actions taken
 Guidelineson EIA and SEA               ISix guidelines       IINone
                                         produced by the BRR
                                         environment
                                         Department-

E.       LandAcquisition,ResettlementandIndigenousPeoplePolicy Framework

Principles. Activities associated with subproject preparation, design and implementation will
trigger OP/BP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement. The existence o f indigenous minorities in Nias
will trigger OP 4.10 for this area. This Framework provides general guidelines in relation to
application o f these policies. The following provides overriding principles o f how land issues will
.
be dealt with:

    Maximizingcommunity consultation as a mechanismto inform on the market price of
    assets, clarifylandtenure, resolve complaintsand minimizeresettlement. The process of
    reconstruction will apply transparent and participatory procedures to ensure that all eligible
    and affected persons agree on any option that involves land acquisition and resettlement. In
    most areas covered by this TA, there are community-driven development mechanisms (for
    example KDP, UPP structures) in place which will provide valuable inputs into subproject
    planning, design and consultation. Specifically public consultation will be carried out at the
    following three points during the preparation and implementation o f infrastructure
    subprojects:
         o      during the planning phase o f the proposed investments, as a means of minimizing
                impacts and informing people o f their compensation entitlements and options, as
                well as the grievance redress mechanism - a thorough consultation process has the
                advantage o f minimizing the potential for land speculation problems by providing
                access to information on benefits to all;
         o      following the census o f affected people and inventory o f assets lost in order to get
                feedback on preferencesregarding compensation options;
         o      during implementation o f the subproject to assess whether adequate compensation
                has been provided.

    Consultation will be carried out within the context o f applicable Bank and GO1 standards,
    such as the Basic Agrarian Law which provides for equal rights between men and women in
.   relation to land tenure.

    Sensitivity to the local culture and the `traditionalregulations where appropriate. Land
    acquisition and resettlement will take into account relevant local or traditional
    regulationsflaws where appropriate, and this will be reflected during the community
    consultation processes associated with development o f LG annual plans. Where traditional
    laws and the Bank's policies or GO1laws conflict (for example on the rights o f women in
    relation to land tenure), these will be highlighted during consultations and every effort made
    to resolve such conflicts through traditional decision making structures.


                                                 73

.   Minimizingadverseimpactson assets. The BRR will ensure that no real decline inincome
    will take place because o f displacement and that all project affected persons will be
    compensated for their loses at market value or replacement cost, as well as provided with
    rehabilitation measures to assist them to improve, or at least maintain their pre-disaster living
    standards and income earning capacity.

LandAcquisition and Resettlement. At the appraisal stage o f the InfrastructureReconstruction
Enabling Program, it i s not possible to identify the intensity o f the potential social issues and
impacts that may arise as a result of the TA provided. Nor can the project assess the land
acquisition and resettlement needed until specific subprojects are put forward for financing.
However, in case the need for land acquisition or for involuntary resettlement does occur, the
followingprovisions will apply:

    The local government that needs to acquire land for public good purposes will negotiate with
    the private landowners, as well as other categories o f project affected people (renters, share
    croppers, squatters). The agreement on the type and level o f compensation i s made through a
    participatory and transparent process to be further detailed in the IREP/IRFFPIP, based on
    existing practices under other World Bank projects. Consultations will need to be thorough
    and widespread in order to eliminate the tendency towards profiteering from land speculators.
    Agreement between the local government and project affected people will be set out in the
    LARAP,with clear land plots demarcation, an inventory of the type/quantity o f assets to be
    acquired and the corresponding type and amount o f compensation (both if it i s in cash or
    kind, e.g. replacement land), the timing of payment, and the funding sources for the
    compensation.
    Compensation will be paid by local government for land acquired and assets/income lost as a
    direct result ofreconstruction activities.
    Compensation for land and assets/income will be provided at their replacement or market
    cost. Existing World Bank practice in Indonesia to refer to databases held by local
    commercial banks in assessing replacement and market costs, rather than to use independent
    assessors.
    The process o f consultation associated with land acquisition and compensation will ensure
    that widows and other marginalizedvulnerable groups receive equal treatment, and it will be
    the responsibility o f the geographically located social safeguards staff to ensure that this i s
    the case. The IPMand WBOJ safeguards staff will also review all LARAPswith this issue in
    mind.
    Where voluntary contribution o f land or other assets are indicated, either inthe new site or in
    the existing site where the reconstruction works will be located, there will be documentation
    o f proof o f ownership and a clear agreement between the contributors and the recipients,
    including the names, land plots with clear demarcation, and the details o f the terms o f the
    contributions. The usage o f the contributed land will be defined through community
    consultation and be made transparent to the community. Land donation i s acceptable only if:
    a) the land donator gets direct benefit from the projecthubproject and they are not poor
    people; b) project affected peoples have been informed clearly their right on compensation
    based on market rpice and they still willing to donate without any pressure. BRR and the
    Bank should ensure that there i s no pressure or intimidation on the project affected peoples in
    the process of land donation.
    Ifthe local government acquires land from private landowners through cashcompensation or
    other compensation scheme, it will be paidprovided prior to the implementation o f works.

    Local Governments are required to demonstrate that sufficient funds have been allocated in
    their DIPAs to cover costs o f compensation before any proposed investments can be
    considered for funding. The effect of this requirement may be that subprojects for which
    financial compensation is necessary cannot beprepared andfinanced within the same budget
    year.
    Other means o f obtaining land, which would not trigger OP 4.12 but for which
    documentation would still be required to be reviewed by the project, include willing-seller-
    willing-buyer situations, donation o f community land and use o f vacant government land.

Any reconstruction activities involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition o f more than
40 households or 200 persons will only be approved after preparation by the respective local
government o f a full Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP) acceptable to the
World Bank.       Several issues are likely to increase the complexity o f land acquisition - the
availability o f reliable land records, the inability of people to document ownership, the demise o f
occupants and subsequent uncertainty about transfers o f title.

LARAPSwill spell out measures to implement the principles o f compensation and livelihood
restoration for any Project Affected Person (PAP). This includes any person who, on account o f
the execution o f a subproject, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social
impacts caused by the involuntary taking o f land resulting in: (i)   relocation or loss o f shelter; (ii)
loss o f assets or access to assets; or (iii) o f income sources or means o f livelihood, whether or
                                            loss
not such person must move to another location, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood o f
such person. The format o f the full LARAP will contain:

    description o f proposed subproject activities that require land (together will alternative means
    used to acquire this land);
    a census o f persons affecteddisplaced by involuntary land acquisition including an inventory
    o f lost assets;
    valuation o f land to be acquired and lost assets
    detailed description o f the compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided;
    description o f consultations held with persons affected about alternatives for compensation
    and other related assistance;
    institutional responsibilities for implementation and procedures for grievance redress;
    arrangements for monitoring and implementation;
    time schedule for the implementationandbudget;
    clear written agreement between the government and project affected people on extent, type
    and timingo f compensation to be provided.

Any reconstruction activities involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition o f less than
40 households or 200 persons will only be approved after preparation by the respective local
government o f an abbreviated LARAPacceptable to the World Bank43. The abbreviated LARAP
contains the same essential information as a full LARAP but requires a less detailed survey o f
project affected people.

Consultants engaged by the IPM team will carry out the LARAPs on behalf o f respective local
governments who will be responsible for mediating consultations on land acquisition and
compensation, supported by safeguards specialists located within the geographically located


43Based on an initial review o f 3-5 abbreviated LARAPs, the WBOJ may decide to transfer authority for
review and approval to the IPMteam.


                                                 . 75

consultant teams. The conclusions and implications o f LARAPs must be agreed with respective
local governments in advance o f submissiom to the IPM and World Bank Office (Jakarta) for
review and approval.

Indigenous Peoples' Framework.Inview o f the existence o f distinct indigenous communities
on Nias, an Indigenous Peoples' Planning framework i s required, based on World Bank
Operational Policy 4.10 - as further elaborated inAnnex 9a. The basic approach to be taken will
entail ensuring that the views o f Nias based indigenous people are meaningfully reflected in the
preparation and implementation o f reconstruction subprojects in their areas. This will require
consultation measures to be tailored to their specific socio-cultural setting, involving
identification and use o f appropriate means o f communication and use o f vernacular language.
Complaints and grievance procedures will need to be adapted to ensure that affected people are
able to effectively exercise their rights. During the initial stages o f TA implementation, a
workshop will be held in Gunung Sitoli to discuss infrastructure reconstruction needs and
implications for local NGOs, indigenous leaders and representatives from the local museum o f
ethnography. A repeated annual workshop will be held thereafter as a basis for identifying and
respondingto concerns.

F.        ConsultationandDisclosure

This environmental and safeguards framework has been discussed with BRR and other relevant
authorities at the provincial and local government levels. The BRR will disclose this framework
inNADProvince andNias. The IDAwill ensure that the framework is publishedinInfoshopand
the IDA Indonesia Public Information Center. The framework will be available also on the E-
Aceh website (http://www.e-aceh.orn). All L M Sand full environmental assessments
(AMDAL) will be made available in Indonesian language on the e-aceh website, with English
language versions published inInfoshop.

The preparation o f local and provincial government Annual Investment Plans for infrastructure
will be carried out ina participatory and transparent manner. All subprojects involving significant
levels o f re-design above and beyond simple replacement o f infrastructure will be supported by
community consultations to take account of project-affected people. The principles mechanisms
for ensuring an appropriate level o f community consultation are embedded inGO1procedures for
AMDAL and World Bankrequirements for L M .

For example, the processes o f acquiring land by the local government will involve consultation
with all landowners (private and public), facilitated by the geographically based consultant
support teams. The resulting agreements including maps o f the land plots and owners will be
disclosed to the public by local Dinas PU. The consultation process and the results agreed by the
community members will be made available to the public through websites, meetings, newsletter,
public postings, and other means.

In relation to AMDAL, local environmental organizations and representatives o f community
groups participate in the formal process o f AMDAL review through the Province AMDAL
Commission and, where available, district level AMDAL Commissions. Formal review i s carried
out at the TORstage and at Draft Final report stage. The Project will ensure that AMDAL
commission meetings have the required local community representation and will provide
facilitatiodcoordination to this effect, including necessary briefings in advance so that local
community representation at such meetings i s meaningful.

G.       Mechanismsfor Complaints and GrievanceRedressal

Each member o f the community has the right to file complaints should there be any concerns that
remain unsolved during community consultations. Complaints can be conveyed in the form o f
written documents, in person, through e-mail, media, etc. Complaints can be addressed to the
office o f the Bupati and/or Dinas PU. In consultation with Dinas PU, the geographically based
consultant teams will respond to the complaints within a specific period o f time. Unresolved
complaints at the city/district level will be brought to the existing Complaints Handling Unit at
the BRR. All complaints and responses will be documented at the respective LG and/or province
level specifying: (i)type o f grievance; (ii) o f complaint; (iii) o f complaint (pending or
                                            date                    status
resolved); and (iv) level at which the complaint was resolvedhy whom. Operational elements o f
the complaints handling mechanism are further elaborated inAnnex 11 (Anti-corruption Action
Plan) and inthe PIP.

H.       MonitoringandEvaluation

Environmental monitoring. Implementation o f EMPs and SOPs is the responsibility o f
contractors, as set out in bid and contract documents. Field-based environmental monitoring o f
SOPs to ensure contractor compliance i s the-primary responsibility o f the supervising engineer
assigned for each subproject by the relevant Dinas PU. Additional support and spot-checking
will be carriedby the safeguards specialists assigned to the geographically based consultant teams
funded under IREPIIRFF,incoordination with local environmental authorities.

Field based environmental monitoring o f EMPs associated with UKL/UPL and AMDALs i s the
primary responsibility o f local environmental authorities. As current capacity to fulfill these tasks
i s extremely low, monitoring will be carried out by safeguards staff assigned to the
geographically based supervision teams. However special attention will be given to ensuring that
local environmental authorities are able padicipate. For example, the geographically based
safeguards specialists will coordinate their monitoring missions closely with local environmental
authorities ensuring that adequate transportation i s available.

The IPMteam will develop a monitoring and reporting system, to be further detailed in the PIP.
This will include field based environmental monitoring protocols tailored to subproject type, a
budget for the purchase o f monitoring equipment and usables, and clear procedures for dealing
with non-compliances. One o f the initial tasks to be carried out by the IPM environmental
specialist will be to develop the monitoring protocols, and provide related training to Dinas PU
supervising engineers, local environmental authorities and the geographically based consultants.

The results o f environmental monitoring will be collated on a three monthly basis by
geographically based safeguards staff and submitted to the IPM team on a biannual basis.
Significant non-compliances will be noted in these reports, whether issues raised have been
resolved and what corrective actions were taken.          Six monthly monitoring reports will be
submitted by the BRR to the WBOJ as an inputto supervision missions.

Routine IDA supervision missions will assess the overall implementation o f the framework and,
ifrequired, recommend additionalsupport.

Social monitoring. Monitoring and evaluation will be done to ensure that the social issues and
impacts have been addressed properly and in a participatory, fair, and transparent manner, in
particular where land acquisition, compensation and resettlement processes take place. The
geographically based social safeguards staff will carry out datahnformation collection to monitor

the progress and impacts, consolidate this information, advise on necessary follow up actions, and
provide status reports to the B W I P M team. Reporting on compensation received and
resettlement assistance provided in required in advance o f construction. The Bank applies a
standard format for reporting on compensation for its subprojects, as further detailed in the PIP.
Additional independent social monitoring focusing on implementation o f LARAPSwill be carried
out by the BWIPM on a spot checkingbasis. A suitable local academic institution or NGOs will
be engaged for this work, based on TORSto be drafted by the IPMteam.

I. Responsibilities,CapacityBuildingandIndicativeBudget

Under the overall coordination by the BRR, each project implementing entity at the province and
local government level i s expected to take responsibility in ensuring that this framework i s
supported. The key tasks, responsibilities, related management actions required in supporting the
framework are listed inthe following table.


              Tasks                   Responsibility                      Required actions
  Detailed social and          I P M safeguards specialists  A detailed set o fprocedures for
  environmental management                                   screening, review, approval, monitoring
  procedures for integration                                 and reporting will be developed within
  into the PIP                                               the first three months o f the project, for
                                                             discussion with local governments, and
                                                             BRRapproval. The procedures willbe
                                                             based on this safeguards annex.
  Development o f training     I P Msafeguards specialists   Training materials prepared in
  modules and materials,                                     Indonesian for joint social and
  requiredstandards and                                      environmental training inthree modules
  guidelines                                                 including:
                                                                       General introduction to the
                                                                       safeguards framework (3 days)
                                                                       Specialist training for project
                                                                       staff (2 days)
                                                                       Specialist training for
                                                                       contractors (2 days)
                                                             Guidelines and formats for screening
                                                             (including basic information required
                                                             when local governments submit their
                                                             Annual Investment Plans), review,
                                                             monitoring and reporting.
  General environmental and    I P M safeguards specialists  Delivery o f 3x3-day training events to be
  social safeguards            and geographically based      held inBanda Aceh, Meulaboh and Nias.
  orientation training for     safeguards specialists        Approximately 50 people attending each
  Project staff, and key local                               event.
  government counterparts
  (Bappeda, PUand
  Bapedalda)
  Specialist environmental     Geographically based          Year 1 delivery o f 3x2-day training
  and social training in       safeguards specialists        events to be held inBanda Aceh,
  screening, review and                                      Meulaboh and Nias. Approximately 100
  supervision procedures, for                                people attending each event
  project staff and field                                    Year 2 delivery 1 or 2 training events for
  supervision engineers                                      newly recruiting staff.
  Specialist environmental     Geographically based          Rolling training program to be provided
  mdsocial training for        safeguards mecialists         for all contractors. Contractors to be

contractors focusing on                                 issuedwith a certificate for renewal
implementation o f EMPs,                                every 3 years.
LARAPs and SOPs
Specialist training for    I P M social safeguards      All local consultants carrying out
consultants engaged in     specialist with support from LARAPs will require 3 day training in
carrying out LARAPs        WBOJ                         World Bank procedures for land
                                                        acquisition and resettlement.
Orientationpaper on        I P M environmental          Study will be completed within the first 6
environmental issues and   safeguards specialist        months o f effectiveness o f this TA.
strategic infrastructure

Safeguards screening       IPM safeguards specialists,   3 step screening process applied to all
                           inconsultationwith local      subprojects approved for finding by
                           environmental authorities    BREUIPM team
Commission environmental   IPM safeguards specialists   The InfrastructureReconstruction
and social studies         on basis o f formal requests Financing Facility (IRFF) i s expected to
(AMDAL,UKLIUPL,            from respective local        fund approximately US$250-300 million
LARAP) as necessary,       governments.                  for a total o f 60-80 individual
including drafting o fTORS Geographically based         subprojects. 10-15% are o f these
                           safeguards specialists draft subprojects are expected to require fill
                           TORS,reviewed by IPM.        EA andor full LARAP. 40-50% of
                           LARAP TORSto be              subprojects are expected to require
                           additionally reviewed by     UKLLJPL or abbreviated LARAP.
                           WBOJ
Review and approval o f    Local environmental          Formal review and approval of TORSand
AMDAL andUKL/upL           authority (Province level    draft AMDAL by Provincial AMDAL
                           during Year 1)               Commission
                           WBOJ to review at least one  Formalreview and approval o f
                           from each participating      UKLLJPLby local environmental
                           local government.            authority
Review and approval o f    WBOJ, with prior-review      Geographically based social safeguards
LARAPs                     and acceptanceby             consultants to ensure study conclusions
                           respective local             are agreed with local governments, prior
                           governments                  to submission o f draft reports to WBOJ
                                                        for auuroval. via I P M team.
Provide compensation for   Local Governments            Formand rate o f compensation to be
land acquisition and lost                               negotiated with Project Affected People
assetsIlivelihoods                                      by Local Government with assistance
                                                        from geographically based social
                                                        safeguards staff.
                                                        Compensation delivered infull by LG,
                                                        prior to award o f contract.
Monitoring and reporting   For SOPs, field based        Supervisingengineers complete field
                           supervising engineers        protocols
                           supported by geographically  Monitoring data compiled by local
                           based safeguard specialists  safeguards specialists into 3 monthly
                                                        reuorts for IPM team/WBOJ
                           For AMDAL and                Geographically based safeguards
                           UKLLJPL, local               consultants will carry out routine
                           environmental authorities    inspections with a focus on subprojects
                           supported by geographically  requiring AMDAL incoordination with
                           basedsafeguard specialists   local environmental authorities.




                                               79

                                For L A M P S ,                 Individual reports submitted to IPMteam
                                geographically based            and WBOJ, as necessary, for each
                                safeguard specialists, and      subproject
                                via independent
                                organizations
                                For Isolated Vulnerable         For Nias only. Individual reports
                                people, geographically          submitted to I P M team and WBOJ as
                                based safeguards specialists    necessary.

The main capacity needs and related budget items required to support implementation o f this
framework are provided inthe following table.

                                                    Indicative budget under          Additional budget
        Item                   Needs                         IREP                   required under IRFF
Environmental        1Senior (international)      18 months, including 12         None
and social           Environmental Specialist     months continuous during
 safeguards support  1 Senior Social              year 1.
to the I P M (also   Specialist                   24 months, including 12
covering province                                 months continuous during
level infrastructure                             year 1.
investments)         Facility to hire             Initial US$1million infunds     As necessary from IRFF
                     consultants for social       to cover costs o f
                     and environmental            environmental and social
                     studies                      studies. Additional resources
                                                  to be made available as
                                                  necessary via the IRFF.
Environmental        1 safeguards specialist      36 man-months                   None
and social           (social and
safeguards support   environmental)
to the Nias TA
Team
Environmental       2 environmental               50 man-months (total)          None
and social           specialists                  50 man-months (total)
safeguards support   2 social specialists
to the West Coast
TA Team
Environmental        1environmental                                               18 months, including 12
and social           specialist                                                  months continuous
safeguards support                                                                duringyear 1
to the Province      1 social specialist                                          18 months, including 12
level TA Team                                                                    months continuous
                                                                                  during year 1
Environmental        1safeguards specialist                                       36 man-months
and social           (social and
safeguards support   environmental)
to the Aceh Besar,
Banda Aceh, and
Sabang TA Team
Environmental        Development and             No additional cost              None
and social           delivery o f modules to
safeguards           be prepared by IPM
training             safeguards specialists




                                                    80

                   Training budget required  US$7,000 per training event  None
                   for an estimated 15       to cover costs o f travel,
                   training events over the  accommodation for
                   course o f the TA         participations, roomhire,
                                             consumables)
Capacity building  1environmental            Fulltime (36 months) at      Potentially to be funded
for local          specialist to be provided local government fee rates   by BRR
environmental      to Provincial Bapedalda   for a mid to senior level
offices            to assist with routine    official
                   subproject screening and
                   review functions.
Monitoring and
         -       IITravel costs             IUS$25,000 to be allocated    Additional $25,000 to
reporting                                    io each o f the following    cover Aceh Besar,
                                             contracts - IPM, West        Banda Aceh and
                                             Coast, Nias (Province level  Sabang.
                                             to be covered under I P M
                                             contract)




                                              81

                   ANNEX8A INDIGENOUSPEOPLESPLANNINGFRAMEWORK
                               -
             FORTREATMENT INDIGENOUS OR ISOLATEDVULNERABLE PEOPLE
                                 OF

A.      Objectives

The design o f this project is structured to ensure the participation and inclusion o f various groups
within communities inlocal level decision making over resource allocation. However, the project
recognizes that Indigenous Peoples from a particular group that merit a different approach and
specific support. Therefore, in accordance with OP4.10, the following framework for addressing
indigenous people will be adopted for the project.

The Objectives o f this framework are to:
              (i) Ensure that indigenous peoples are involved in free and informed
                     consultation on plannedproject activities;
              (ii) Ensurethatindigenouspeoplesparticipate inandbenefit fromtheproject;
                     and
              (iii) Avoid orminimizepotentiallyadverse effects oftheprojectonindigenous
                     people.

B.      Definition

"Isolated vulnerable peoples" (IVP) i s the term used officially by the Indonesian Government to
describe groups that have the characteristics o f "indigenous peoples" as used in OP 4.10. This
document will hereafter use the term "isolated vulnerable people".

For the purposes o f this project, isolated vulnerable peoples are defined as those that present
varying degrees o f the following characteristics:
             (iv)    a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources inthese
                     areas;
             (v)     self-identification and identification by others as members o f a distinct
                     cultural group;
             (vi)    an indigenous language different from the common regional language (e.g.
                     Javanese);
             (vii)   the presence o f customary social and political institutions; and
             (viii)  primarily subsistence-orientedproduction.

C.      Framework

The IVP will be the beneficiaries o f the projecthubproject and no projectshubprojects with
adverse impact to the IVP will be approved, including involuntary land acquisition affecting 200
or more people.

Isolated vulnerable peoples are not prevalent in all the project sites -they are only found in the
islands o f Nias and not in the Province o f Aceh. The following steps will be taken to ensure that,
where isolated vulnerable groups do exist, the project caters to their specific needs.

        (i)      For the areas where isolated vulnerable groups are identified (parts o f Nias),
                 social safeguards specialists will organize orientation training for relevant staff
                 within the local administration (Bappeda, Dinas PU and Bapedalda) in how to
                 work with isolated vulnerable groups in a useful way to identify mechanisms for
                 effective participation, and address specific challenges in working with such


                                                 82

                 groups, for example, how to deal with groups that may be in conflict with the
                 larger community, etc.
         (ii)    Opportunities will be provided for IVPs to be consulted independently, out o f the
                non-IVP group ina language/dialect familiar to them
         (iii)  Appropriate media and means o f communication will be identified and applied,
                potentially different from consultations processes applied innon-IVP areas
         (iv)   Where the isolated vulnerable group speaks a language different from Bahasa
                Indonesia, relevant brochures and documents will be translated in the appropriate
                language.

These steps will be aimed at ensuring that isolated vulnerable peoples participate fully in the
project, are aware o f their rights and responsibilities, and are able to voice their needs duringthe
participatory planning process.

D.      MonitoringandGrievance Procedures

Where isolated vulnerable peoples are identified, the safeguards specialists within the
geographically located TA teams will be required to report on their participation in the project,
bothto the IPMand to the World Bank.

The project has a complaint system that allows community members to raise issues or complaints
at various levels- at the community level (through community leaders), at the district level
(through the respective Dinas PU), and at the BRR level (through the Complaints Handling Unit).
Where isolated vulnerable people are concerned, the relevant safeguard specialists will ensure
that grievance redress mechanisms are developed in culturally appropriate ways in close
collaborationwith the relevant group.

Project evaluation studies will include monitoring and evaluation o f the impact o f the project on
isolated vulnerable people.

The IVP-NGO will be part o f the monitoring team and involve in facilitating the participatory
planning process inthe program.




                                                83

           ANNEX8B-FRAMEWORKMAINSTREAMINGGENDER ININFRASTRUDCTURE
                                               FOR

A.          Background

For the tsunami survivors, the impacts have been disproportionately borne by women and
children. There i s evidence in Aceh o f an increase inviolence against women, early marriages o f
girls, decline inthe quality o f health care and limited access to financial resources and ownership
o f assets such as land and housing44.Events o f this scale weaken the status o f women and girls
and their ability to negotiate both within and outside the family. The loss o f productive assets,
homes, and family members all contribute to increased gender inequality. In addition women's
access to rehabilitation and reconstruction resources are constrained, as those efforts often rely on
existing structures o f resource distribution that reflect the local patriarchal structure4'. Attempts to
address gender and women's concerns during relief and reconstruction have been fragmented,
and the impacts modest.

B.          Go1and BRRMandateson Gender Equality

The 1945 constitution outlines the Government o f Indonesia's commitment to the principle o f
equality which guarantees equal rights between men and women in education, health, economy,
and political participation. Indonesia has also ratified several international conventions including
the Convention on the Elimination o f the all forms o f Discrimination Against Women. This
commitment has been complemented by the issuance o f Presidential instruction on gender
mainstreaming strategy {Instruksi President (INPRES)} No. 9/2000}, which i s accompanied by
"Guidelines for Gender Mainstreaming inNational Development". This legal framework outlines
that all heads o f government institutions at the national and sub-national levels are responsible for
applying the gender mainstreaming strategies.

The BRR gender policy was developed in2006, recognizing the need to identify effective ways to
integrate gender-responsive actions into the development and reconstructionprocess with donors,
and throughout all levels o f government. The policy was accompanied by sector strategies to
mainstream gender perspectives into the formulation, planning, and implementation throughout
the BRR's sectors - including housing, infrastructure, economic development, health, education,
women's empowerment, social & religious, and institutional development. The gender policy and
sectoral strategy was signed by the BRR's Executive Director and will be effective in September
2006.

C.          MainstreamingGender & Infrastructure

To date, infrastructure reconstruction projects have been implemented in a top-down process,
focused more on technical targets than attention to gender considerations or wider social factors.
There i s increasing awareness within the BRR on the urgency o f improving delivery o f gender
sensitive infrastructure services for the community, as women and men have different priorities
and needs. As the primary users, women are affected the most by water and sanitation
investments - where design, tariffs, and access can have either positive or negative impacts on



44 A report on documented findings on the status of women IDPS' human rights in Aceh, Indonesian National Commission on
Violence against Women (Komnas Perempuan), April 2006. "Sexual violence accounts for nearly 74% of all the cases of violence
toward women IDPs in Aceh-41%of which occurredin family domain. In the public domain, 41% of the perpetratorswere not known
to the victims. The group most vulnerable to sexualattacks were found to be young women aged between 18-25 (53% of case)".
45 Tsunami's Women Survivors DemandGreater Role in Recoveryand Reconstruction Efforts. Aceh, Asia Pacific Forumon Women,
Law and Development,2006.



                                                                84

health. The impacts o f road investments can open opportunities to women through new markets
and decreased travel times, but have potentialto increase risks to exposure to HIV.

Addressing these concerns, IREP/IRFF i s structured to ensure equal representation and increased
participation o f women and men in decision-makingregardingprovision o f infrastructure services
and resource allocation. The project recognizes this goal cannot be achieved unless efforts are
made to identify gender-differentiated preferences, roles, responsibilities and needs on patterns o f
usage o f infrastructure. A review o f criteria applied in prioritizing design and implementing
infrastructure provision, development o f framework and outreach plan under IREP/IRFF, will
assist in identifying areas o f gender bias, and will underline the need to ensure that sectors are
defined inways which take account o f women (as well as men's) needs and priorities.

The extent to which gender issues are integrated into the project varies depending on the nature o f
the service. Consultation will be held to ensure that women are given a strong voice in choices to
be made over location and design, as well as the relative prioritization o f sub-projects.

D.       Objectivesof the gender Framework

    Ensure women and men's equal access, presence and influence in consultation process o f
    sub-project activities.
.
..  Ensure that the project design and implementation plans are responsive to local community'
    needs, by differentiating, prioritizing and addressing those needs on the basis o f gender.
    Avoid and minimise potential adverse effect o f the project (spread o f HIV/Aids, contract
    marriage, land rights, imbalance in gender role on local community (women and men, boys
    and girls).

Approach.The demand o f gender-sensitive approaches inthis project focuses on core interlinked
.
aspect o f infrastructure provision:
.   Access and appropriateness
    Sustainability and effectiveness

E.      ImplementationFramework

It will be the responsibility o f the IPM and PDCS TA teams to assist BRR to develop relevant
procedures, guidelines and checklists to ensure mainstreaming o f gender into the IREP/IRFF
project cycles. In this process BRR gender advisor will consult closely with IPM consultants,
while local expertise will be mobilized under IREP/IRFF IPMto be positioned at district level.

Eligibility criteria & Prioritization. Under the IREP/IRFF project cycle management, all
subprojects are required to be selected according to BRR eligibility criteria. In this case, IPM
team will assist BRR in formulation o f gender reviewhriteria guidelines. Such guidelines will be
disseminated to local government and BRR regional offices through PDCS teams in the field.
This will help local governments identify the potential social impacts o f the sub-projects and
address entry points at the start o f the project. The IPM team (with support from the BRR
Women's Empowerment Unit (WEU) will develop an outreach plan (including mapping of civil
society organization active in the field o f gender, to be provided by the BRR WEU) to ensure
representation and participation o f women inthe process o f selection and priority list o f multi-
year investment plans. Draft LGIPs and PGIPs are required to be discussed with civil society




                                                 85

organizations46 through consultative mechanisms by PDCS TA. Consultative mechanisms might
consist o f community forums, sex-segregated meeting, media campaigns etc.

Review and Approval. PDCS team and gender focal points will be responsible to present the
outcomes o f civil society organization's recommendations and related gender concerns of LGIPs
and PGIPs to the joint secretariat for further consideration. The final list o f subprojects will be
then shared with the BRRWEU.

Design & constructionsupervision. The IPMteam is responsible to engage gender expertise to
develop sectoral guidelines for integrating gender concerns into implementation phase including
design and construction supervision. Guidelines will include practical checklists on gender by
major infrastructure sectors. The guidelines will be approved jointly by BRR InfrastructureUnit,
with guidance from the BRR WEU. The PDCS team is responsible to ensure all subprojects
comply with IPMgender sectoral guidelines, The PDCS team i s responsible for implementation
o f the outreach plan developed by IPMTA.

The BRR WEU in coordination with relevant stakeholders will design and implement gender -
infrastructure risk reduction program to minimize the risks are associated with construction
implementation. The program will include reproductive health and HIV/Aids campaign,
livelihood, community awareness-raising on contract marriage, early marriage, trafficking and
awareness raining on women's rights on land and implication o f land acquisition. PDCS team
will coordinate with relevant stakeholders at the field to complement and help support BRRWEU
riskreductionprogram.

Monitoring and Evaluation. IPM consultants, with the assistance of the BRR WEU, will be
responsible for developing a gender sensitive monitoring and reporting system for the project.
Appropriateness and gender responsiveness o f the project will be measured and evaluated against
performance indicators created by the BRR WEU and IPMteam.

Gender report will be incorporated in IREFproject reporting schedule (quarterly& annually). The
PDCS team i s responsible to report on gender impacts in their quarterly reports. Gender impacts
will be reported inthe quarterly and annual reports o fthe IPMand PDCS consultants.

Capacity Building. IPMteam i s responsible to organize training on gender, general guidelines
and sectoral guidelines to train PDCS consultants. This can be integrated in overall training that
PDCS consultant are required to receive.




41,According to Asia-I'acitic Forum, "inore than 70`1'0~"of the local civil organizations working in the affected areas are women's
groups or groups mostly stafkd by \voiiien".      36 wonicii orgaiiizarioiis also have been ideiitificd by t3i<l< as leading agencies in tliv
field of gender wrtli expertise in different sectors. Saying that tliere are limited experieiices oil implication of gender into infrastructure
projcctsand ciigilgcmcniof woiiicn organizationsin this liold.




                                                                      86

                         ANNEX 9.ANTI-CORRUPTIONACTIONPLAN

A.       Introduction

This Anti-Corruption Action Plan has been prepared for the Infrastructure Reconstruction
Financing Facility (IRFF).It depends on strong support from the BRR through its PMU and also
on the support o f BRR's Anti-Corruption Unit (Satuan Anti-Korupsi, or SAK). A small Ethics
Team will be established within the BRR, as advisors to the PMU. This Ethics Team would work
closely with the IPMconsultants, hired under the MDF, providing timely and advice to the P M U
on issues such as:

             Adapting and adopting procedures acceptable to the MDF and the government for
             hiringandmanaging consultants and contractors;

             Ensuringthat parliament and civil society groups are properly informed and engaged
             within an appropriate "third-party" monitoring system.

The Ethics Team should include representatives from the S A K and from the Internal Audit unit o f
BRR. It would greatly benefit from having access to a fulltime Advisor on operational aspects,
including the MDF and government disbursement, procurement and financial management
guidelines.

It is important that the plan is "operationalized" and therefore all Manuals and training materials
relatedto the project should reflect the aspects o f the ACAP that are relevant to their subjects.

T o ensure success, it i s vital that sufficient funds are made available for the activities outlined in
this plan. Most o f these activities are already mainstreamed as procedures under financial
management, procurement and monitoring, but some aspects such as information dissemination
and complaint handling may require a small additional budget. This will not be a significant
restraint, but it i s very important that budgets`are MADE available as needed for this investment
phase.

B.       SystemsNeededto Protectthe IRFFfrom Corruption.

Three somewhat parallel systems are needed to help ensure that the IRFF construction phase o f
the programis protected:

         First, the program needs a sound contract management structure. This is reliant on the
         BRRbeing able to engage staffwith highcapacity and integrity from local government to
         act on its behalf. The BRR itself voices concern that it may be difficult to find people
         with the required dedication, skills and experience. In areas where management and
         technical support are inherently weak there will be a need to strengthen through provision
         o f BRR staff andor consultants.

         Second, it requires a sound routine supervision and monitoring structure, launched out o f
         the BRR's base in Aceh. It i s hoped that the provision o f the IPM will help to provide
         this. This part of the system is to ensure that no location operates in isolation without
         effective management supervision. Aside from observing the processes at each location,
         this input should also ensure cross-fertilization o f best practice examples between
         locations. Both routine monitoring and spot-checks are crucial, as are the linkages to
         BRR's establishedcomplaint handling system.


                                                    87

          Third, it requires obiective auditing and oversight. This third leg seems to be particularly
          weak. The internal auditor o f the BRR i s currently tasked with auditing a wide array o f
          different activities, covering a large geographic area with a small number o f personnel.
          At the same time it does not seem to be reasonable to buildup capacity for this temporary
          unit very much. The alternatives, such as the local government Bawasda are also known
          to be weak. For this reason, it i s proposed that external audit resources be strengthened
          and linkedback to the BRR HQ,particularly the BRR's internal auditors and ensure that
          case referral involves the SAK.

C.        The Six Elementsof the IRF'FAnti CorruptionActionPlan

The following notes look at the project from the perspective o f the six key elements that have
been identified by the World Bank's A C I as being essential to preventing corruption, namely:


    0     Enhanced Disclosure o f Information
    0     Civil Society Oversight
    0     Protectionfrom Collusion
    0     Protectionfrom Forgery and Fraud
    0     Complaint Handling System
    0    Remedies and Sanctions

Inaddition, at the request of the BRR itself, there is a short section on the involvement of local
parliaments.

EnhancedDisclosureof Information

With advice from the S A K and from the project-related Ethics Team, the IPM must design a
simple but effective system that uses different mechanisms for sharing public information (e.g. :
posting full audit and progress reports on the project internet websites; sending summary reports
on a monthly basis to the press and civil society forums; having full documents available in
public information centers, etc).

The BRR already has quite a comprehensive website (www.e-aceh-nias.orq),            which i s a user-
friendly, open portal to a lot o f useful information. This can be a major vehicle for the
dissemination o f information related to the IRFF.Linked to the BRR are two main development-
related newsletters: Seumangat and Ceureumen. Both o f these would be ideal as conduits o f IRFF
information to civil society groups.

The project will hold routine public forums called Public Accountability Meetings. These
meetings, hosted by the local government, will be open to the public and provide an opportunity
for civil society to hear about the project from related contractors and consultants inperson. Each
level o f the project will hold such meetings before construction takes place (e.g. a public launch),
during construction (e.g. progress reporting) and on completion. The aim is for the people
implementingthe project to explain progress to date and plans for the period to come.

The PMU must further ensure that all consultant and contractor packages promote effective
transparency. For example, all subproject sites must have information boards, the standards for
which must be established by the BRR with advice from the IPM and the BRR's Ethics Team.




                                                  88

The PMUmust also ensure that sufficient resources are available for disclosure measures and that
these are reflected inthe TORs/contracts for the subprojects.

CivilSociety Oversight

To broaden informal oversight coverage and further reduce the problems related to
misinformation, the P M U will ensure that "socialization" o f civil society oversight begins as soon
as possible, so that civil society becomes aware o f any forthcoming bidding and so that local
governments can see that BRR fosters coordination with key external groups, such as the local
parliament and higher education institutions, both o f which should be encouraged to send
representativesto witness the procurement process and comment on progress.

As mentioned above, the project (supported by the IPMand other design consultants) must hold
Accountability Meetings, where civil society groups can hear about the project, including
information on contracts and progress. These meetings should allow participants to pose
questions concerning, inter alia: timing, finance and quality issues. The PM should help BRR to
organize these meetings and ensure that a wide range of actors are invited.

Methods for ensuring the effective inclusion o f members from civil society and parliament in the
bidding committees and monitoring o f implementation must be discussed and agreed. This
becomes increasingly difficult as the contracts themselves are to be implemented in several
dissimilar districts over Aceh and Nias: "Local" groups needto be involved appropriately without
this becoming an undue burden on the project. Plans for achieving effective third-party
monitoring o f procurement and implementation must therefore be defined by the BRR with
assistance from the IPM and the Ethics Team. Some flexibility to these plans will be needed in
order for them to be appropriate in the various locations. The minimum goal will be that local
civil society groups are aware o f the project and understand that they have a right to observe
implementation.

All consultandcontractor contracts must include clauses that ensure disclosure o f information and
the inclusion o f the firm concerned inAccountability Meetings at the appropriate level.

Protectionfrom Collusion

Special attention must be given to the planning and preparation o f procurement processes, as this
may entail very different package types and sizes, different levels o f responsibility (e.g. shared
between BRR and local governments), and different local capacities in terms o f process
management and oversight (internal and external). The preparation o f materials and schedules
must reflect the reality o f each situation, including special measures to protect against collusion
as necessary for each subproject type and area. For example, it could be that some areas or
subproject types may only require some basic briefing materials for third-party observers to
monitor procurement whilst for other areas special observers may have to be brought from Banda
Aceh or from elsewhere.

Sensitive but practical systems need to be designed and put in place to allow appropriate
collusion mitigation for each contract type. The Ethics Team and the S A K should be fully
consulted concerning the methods to be used for each location. At a minimum, the measures
outlined in the procurement and financial management sections o f the PIP must be closely
followed at each stage and any deviation from the agreed rules must be carefully investigated
with appropriate sanctions strictly applied.



                                                  89

ProtectionfromForgery and Fraud

These measures will include strict payment validation procedures that will be rigorously
enforced. Project filinghookkeeping will be tightly controlled and subject to strict reviews.
Internal and external audits will be held to ensure that fiduciary management i s in accordance
with the agreed procedures. Special attention will be given to aspects that have proven vulnerable
inpreviousprojects, such as ``soft" categories like information dissemination. Internal audits will
be carried out by the BRR, and external audits by the Supreme Audit Board (BPK), which may
outsource the task to a professional audit company acceptable to the Bank. It i s understood that
the capacity o f the BRRs internal auditor i s low, and so the focus will be on external audits,
including a reasonable sample o f interim performance and financial audits.

The IPM consultants hired under the first phase o f the program will be tasked with assisting the
BRR in supervisory work, including routine and ad hoc reviews o f other contracts, etc. As with
the previous section, it i s necessary to stress that the measures outlined in the procurement and
financial management sections o f the PIP must be closely followed at each stage and any
deviation from the agreed rules must be carefully investigated with appropriate sanctions strictly
applied.

Complaint HandlingSystem

A sufficiently independent and credible system i s already available within the BRRthat feeds into
the S A K . The P M Uwill make full use o f this system throughout the life o f the program. This will
form the backbone o f the complaint handling system for the program. Ifthe number or severity of
the complaints becomes too extreme for the unit to handle then this may require strengthening,
but at the present time this is thought to be unlikely. Routine assessments should be made by the
IPMto ensure that there are no immediate needs for strengthening the complaint handling system.

The overall approach of the project i s to support the S A K as an independent unit within the BRR,
to carry out most anti-corruption activities for IREP/IFWF. To enhance SAK's capacity, the IPM
consultants have staff to support the S A K . H`owever, S A K will continue to report directly to the
BRR, andnot the PMU, to maintainthe integrity o fthe unit.

Remediesand Sanctions

This is a highrisk project in a highrisk environment, so there are likely to be several cases of
abuse found during the implementation phase. The BRR will follow up on each case
appropriately, taking into consideration the size and nature o f the case as well as the level o f
evidence available. The P M U will ensure that proven cases of corruption get high publicity so
that they will act as a social ("name and shame") deterrent. Depending on the case, sanctions may
be imposedby on individual offenders, companies or other entities.

A step-by-step process for sanctions will be devised by the IPM with advice from the Ethics
Team. This process must be agreed and incorporated into related manuals/contracts prior to the
start o f any major works procurement.

The follow up to cases found in audit or through other channels, such as the complaint handling
system, must be to launch some form o f investigation. The current strategy o f the BRR i s to carry
out pre-investigations aimed at creating case files. These case files should provide enough "meat"
for the relevant legal agency to then follow up with a proper forensic investigation. In some cases



                                                  90

the next stage might be handled by the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK), in others
perhaps by the attorney general or the police.

Clearer BRR sanctioning steps need to be established and widely disseminated to firms and local
officials. In relation to firms it i s essential that sanctions such as fines and debarment be laid
down prior to contracts beinn issued, so that the companies understand and agree to the BRR's
rules. Similarly, it i s currently unclear how BRR can sanction the staff seconded from local
government in bidding committees, Satker and so on. Such rules need to be simple, fair and
 strictly adhered to. At the present time there i s still a need to prove that BRR can take effective
action against such offenders.

The project design should build in some awareness-raising functions targeted at the contractors
(esp. for small contracts) so that they fully understand the rules and the sanctions that will be
applied in relation to these specific works         2 e.g. ensure that they know that this will not be
"business as usual" and that automatic investigations will be launched whenever serious
 suspicions o f corruption arise. The IPM and the Ethics Team will prepare materials for this on
behalf o f the BRR.

The BRR needs to ensure that there will be a mechanism whereby disbursements will cease to
flow to offending units or subprojects until corruption cases are appropriately dealt with.
Depending on the case, this might be at the level o f individual contracts, or entire administrative
units(e.g. districts). Again, a clear, step-by-step process must be followed.

EffectiveInvolvement of the Local Parliament

The P M U will ensure that the local parliament (DPRD) i s actively involved from the beginning
by insisting that they are properly involved in the strategic planning stage. It will also invite
representatives from the relevant commission to observe the procurement process on the
condition that conflict o f interests i s avoided. Later on, the P M U will ensure that DPRD are
invited through the relevant commission to all Accountability Meetings. All o f these activities
will requireplanning inputsfrom the Ethics Team and the IPM.

Because the DPRD have a mandate to monitor development, and to allocate local development
funds, they need to be aware o f all significant infrastructure works in their area. However, they
may need some briefing or very basic training to fulfill their related functions in an optimal way.
Under the guidance o f the PMU, the TA packages must identify training needs in each area and
design the packages needed for the second phase. A design i s needed to minimize the risk o f
conflict o f interest (particularly when involving DPRD in observing procurement processes) and
undue politicizing o f the development agenda. One option that should be considered i s to ask
SPADA to help identify specific local training needs and ask a local university to provide the
training personnel, perhaps after some TOT from the IPMworking alongside the Ethics Team.

                           Anti-CorruptionAction Plan Actions Matrix
                                                                -

                                            Enhanced Disclosure
The annual work plans and the Procurement Plan, with any revisions will be published on the official
website and made available to the public as a part of the public disclosure policy o f this project.

A quarterly newsletter will be prepared to reportpiogress to national level and to local NGOs and the
local media and will be put on the official website. Salient information concerning contractor contracts,
implementation progress, key project-related workshops and other activities will be included inthese



                                                     91

reports. The site will also include basic data related to the number, typology and status o f complaints for
each district.

Recapitulated project data, including problems and solutions, will be included inIFRs and presentedto
civil society (e.g. NGO) forums inhardcopy at the national, province and (where they exist) district levels
every three months.

Guidelines on disclosure o f information to the public on project and procurement activities shall be
incorporated inthe PMM, and will include the following key actions:

     a. The BRR will and the World Bank may make publicly available, promptly after completion o f a
       mid-term review o f the project carried out in accordance with the loan agreement, the mid-term
       review report and the aide-memoire prepared for this purpose. BRR will also post this on their
       official website within 2 months o f the completion o f the mid-term review.

    b.The BRRwill and the World Bank may make publicly available promptly after receipt all final
       audit reports (financial or otherwise, and including qualified audit reports) prepared inaccordance
       with the loan agreement and all formal responses o f the government inrelationto suchreports.
       BRRwill also post this on their official website within 1month o fthe reportbeing acceptedas
       final.

     c. The BRR will and the World Bank may :

     0  ,Make publicly available promptly after finalization all annual Procurement Plans and schedules,
         including all updates there to; BRR will also post this o n the official website within 2 months o f
         the end o f the fiscal year.
     0  ,Make available to any member o fthe public promptly upon request all      biddingdocuments and
         requests for proposal issued in accordance with the procurement provisions o f the loan
         agreement, subject to payment o f a reasonable fee to cover the cost o f printingand delivery. In
         the case o f biddingdocument from the interestedbidders for goods and works and request for
         proposals from the interested bidders, the relevant documents will only be made available after
         notification o f award to the successful firm. Each such document will continue to be made
         available untila year after completion o f the contract entered into for the goods, works or
         services in question;
         Make available to any member o f the public promptly upon request all shortlists o f consultants.
    0    Actively encourage representatives o f civil society groups to attend the public bid openings and
         other key procurement steps. Representatives o f civil society will be included as
         witnessedmembers o f the ProcurernentBelection committees.
    0    Inline with the Procurement Guidelines, within two weeks o fcontract award(Bank's no
         objection) publishinUNDB online, dgMarket, o n BRR website, and send to those who
         submitted bids, contract award information identifying the bid and lot numbers and the following
         information (a) name o f eachbidder who submitted a bid(b) bid prices as read out at the bid
         opening, (c) name and evaluated prices of eachbidthat was evaluated; (d) name o f bidders
         whose bids were rejected and the reason for their rejection; and (e) name o f the winning bidders,
         and the price it offered, as well as the duration and summary scope o f the contract awarded.
    0   ,Make available, promptly upon request by any person or company, a list o f all contracts awarded
         inthe three months preceding the date o fsuchrequest inrespect o f a subproject, including the
         name o f the contractor / supplier / consultant, the contract amount, the number o f bidders /
         proposes, the procurement method followed and the purpose o f the contract
    0    The BRRwill establish a webpage withinthe BRRofficial website that provides monthly
         updated information o n project activities. This up-to-date information would include, for each
         project-related kabupaten or kota, inter alia: nature o f contracts awarded (estimated cost, scope o f
         works, contractor details); current estimati: o f the progress o f implementation (e.g. gross estimate
         o f completion as a percentage o f works to be carried out); other project-related activities such as
         workshops; data concerning complaints and remedial actions.



                                                       92

         The BRR will establish another webpage within the BRR official website that provides
         information o nforthcoming project activities such as workshops and training. This page will also
         be updated on a monthly basis.
                                           Civil Society Oversight
Civil society oversight o fprocurement and implementation is to be encouraged.

    Procurement observers may be invited from local universities or institutions such as the independent
    national "watchdog" groups (e.g. Indonesia Corruption Watch, Indonesia Procurement Watch and the
    Muhammadiyah Anti-Cormption Team) or smaller groups acting locally (e.g. GeRAK, SAMAK,
    Muhammadiyah University). Experience inother projects strongly suggests that the unit being
    monitored shouldnot control the selection andbriefing o f such representatives, therefore it is
    suggested that the Ethics Team will advise the project on these matters. Details concerning the
    selection andbriefing o f representatives must be recorded at the national level.
    The project design also requires a degree o f independent, `thirdparty monitoring'. This may be
    provided by a firmor firms or NGOs that can provide good external oversight. This arrangement will
    be clearly established and approved prior to implementation so that the thirdparty can assist inthe
    monitoring o f planning, procurement, implementation procedures and impacts. The personnel from
    the thirdparty organization(s) will be briefed regularly. Though this thirdparty may be a firm, it may
    also be a civil society organization. Their monitoring o f the project will include discussions with the
    local government, community, supervising engineers and contractors. Reports from this entity are
    expected to include recommendations to the national level office and the Bank for improvements to
    the ACAP. Guidance on appropriate procedures will be provided Terms o f Reference and PMM.
    The BRR will establish a mechanism whereby the media and civil society groups can become
    involved inmonitoring the progress o f the project including implementation. This mechanism will
    include regular sharing o f information with the media. Copies o f press clippings (etc.) will be sent to
   the national level for discussion and filing.
   Regular (e.g. annual) Accountability Meetings will be held to enhance accountability and sharing o f
   information.
                                       Mitigation of collusion risks
BRRwill hire a Procurement Advisor to support the management o fprocurement processes inthe project.

Goods/Works contracts.

   BRRwill use "semi" e-procurement andpublishonits official website for all works and equipment
   contracts:
          o    all Invitations to Bid,
          o    bidding documents and drawings,
          o    clarification o f bids,
          o bidopening minutes,
          o    information on contract award.
   The manual systemthat has beenused inthe past will continue to runinparallel for
   contractorslsuppliers who wish to use it.
e  Biddingdocuments will be available for download on-line. N o charge for electronic documents.
e  Procurement Advisor to certify the documents-are on-line prior to the issuance o f the Invitation to Bid
   and remain available to bidopening.
   N o pre-qualification
   Listo fbidders remains confidential untilbidopening.
   N o pre-bid meetings.
   All bids to be submitted within a predefined say 4 hours time "Bid Submission Period" and to be
   opened within I 5 minutes afer that in the same room.
e  Bids to only be submitted in person by the Authorized Representative who signed the bid - his ID to
   be checked on submission.
e  The Procurement Advisor mustbe present to observe the biddingprocess and bids to be under his
   control during the "Bid Submission Period".
   One sealed copy o f the bid submitted to be kept by Procurement Advisor


                                                     93

     Procurement Advisor to immediately check the bids for any signs o f collusion (using tracking
     software) and to certify the minutes.
     Bid Evaluation Report to be complete and submitted within 1 week andprepared by Procurement
     Advisor
0    Bids awarded within 1month. Bidvalidity period= 60 days and no bidvalidity extensions permitted.
     Ifnotmet, subproject is not eligible for financing.
     Rebidding will be subject to World bank approval.
     BRRto use FIDICarrangements with the independent supervision consultant having responsibility as
     the "Engineer" inthe works contract.

Consultantservices.

     A narrativejustification o feach short listing will be requiredfor proposing shortlists for prior review
     contracts. Guidelines on preparing these justifications will be prepared as required for all contracts
     Request for Proposals. Only the CVs o f key personnel with be requestedand evaluated up to about
     10 staff.

NCB procedures.

 The clarification o fNCB procedures following Keppres 80/2003 to be acceptable by the Bank is
 included inthe Legal Agreements. Following such clarifications, the implementationplan includes:
      Advertisement innational newspapers
      Removal o f geographic and other restrictions
      The use o f post-qualification which allows participation by bidders without any restriction

Advertisement of bids.

The BRR will employ a standard agreed format o f advertisement andplace inthe nationally circulated
Kompas (or similar national) newspaper, on the BRR official website, and on the UNDB and dg Market
websites.

Public Notary

A public notary will (A) attendpublic procurement events such as the opening o fbids for selection o f
consulting firms, and certify the related Minutes, and (B) keep ina safe place one copy o f the sealed bids
and other procurement-related documents.

ProjectManagers.
Commitment makers (PPK) should be a staff from within the SATKER, and should at least be o f an equal
or lower level with the staff conducting verification o f payment at the finance unit.

Guidelines

 0    Guidelines for preparation o f specifications /.selection criteria inthe BiddingDocuments I request
      for proposal will be prepared to ensure compliance with Bank guidelines. This will include
      suggestions to conduct simple surveys on available products inthe market and the alternative o f
      hiring consultants for procurement o f complex goods I equipments I services to define the
      specification / terms o f reference.
      Guidelines to prepare owner estimates, particularly for consultancy work will be defined. This will
      include the requirement to provide a detailed breakdown o f estimates, suggestions to conduct simple
      market price surveys, maintaining data base o f survey results and previous purchases, which will be
      accessible to all Implementing Units
 0    Guidelines on preparing shortlist justificatioqs will be prepared
      Ifpre-bidmeetings for procurement ofsimple goods andsmall works are to be conducted, it will
      not be compulsory for bidders to attend the meeting. The specifications shall be defined clearly in



                                                       94

       the biddingdocuments. Clarifications can be sought through written correspondence and replies will
       be sent to all bidders / short listed firms. Appropriate guidelines providing for this will be prepared.
       The BRR will provide guidelines and training on how to conduct clarifications /negotiations that are
       inline withthe Bankguidelines.
       The BRR will prepare guidelines and training on monitoring contract implementation.

Other issues

       Public openings for all bids o f procurement and consultant selection will be attendedby the
       Procurement Officer / Treasurer / civil society representatives and representatives o f the Internal
       Auditor.
       The reports / records o f public openings for all prior review contracts shall be submittedpromptly
       to the Bank (2 x 24 hours)

                                    Mitigation of Forgery and Fraud Risks
     Performance o f key officials will be monitored and reported by the project. Criteria and performance
     indicators for the Project Manager, Treasurer, and Procurement Committee will be prepared by the
     BRR and agreed bythe Bank and will beused as the basis o fthe annual performance review o fthe
     relevant staff.
     Each Project ImplementationUnit(PIU) will include a qualified procurement specialist / officer and
     financial management specialist / officer
     Guidelines for submission o f complete documentation required for requests for payments (SPP) to
     KPPNwill be also be prepared bythe BRR.
     The BRR will establish procedures to maintainproper project and procurement filing including filing
     o f advertisements, biddingdocuments, evaluation reports, contract award and final contract
     documents.
     Timelines for procurement decisions will be agreed between GO1and the Bank to establish service
     standards and avoid procurement delays to reduce opportunities for corruption. These will be clearly
     stated inthe PMM.
     The BRR shall conduct regular interim audits by third parties, which will include review o f
     procurement process andprocurement results (end use checks, quality and quantity o f acquired goods
     / works I services, verification o fpayments, price comparison between contract price and market
     price, etc.).
     The BRR shall conduct training as needed to improve the capability o f key personnel at all levels.
     This will include, as necessary, aspects o fprocurement, financial management, design, and
     supervision o f implementation. The design capability and the quality o f design will be improved in
     order to avoid any design review inpost contract signing.
     The BRR shall delegate the authority for supervision o f works by stating clearly and in detail the
    biddinglcontract document the authority for Engineer's and Engineer's Representative.
     The clarifications on NCB procedures following Keppres 80 / 2003 acceptable to the Bank will be
     included inthe Legal Agreements. Substantial deviations from such clarifications may be subject to
    mis-procurement
                                          Complaint Handling System
A complaints handling mechanism, which includesmaintaining a project complaint log and filing to
monitor status o f follow up o f eachreceived complaints, will be established by the BRR and the Bank.
The mechanisms will include provision for follow up investigations o f substantial complaints by the
internal Auditors, or thirdparty audit to ensure independency and reliability o f the system.

    All complaints received shall be responded to within 7 days o freceipt, withcopy to the World Bank
    and the Inspectorate.
    For the complaint mechanism to function, it i s essential that information concerning the alternative
    conduits for complaint (telephone hotline', dedicated email ad+ and PO Box) is widely disseminated.
    Strict procedures to ensure anonymity o f informants will be enforced.
    Recording and appropriate referral o f all incoming complaints will be undertaken by the Complaint
    Handling Unit o f the BRR, with each case generating an automatic, standard format report to the


                                                        95

    Bank.
0   Tracking o f the status o f investigations and measures taken will be reported inmonthly reports to
    management and the Bank. Complaints deemed possible serious infringements may be further
    investigated by the Bank.
0   Statistics from the complaints handling system will be included inthe website to be establishedfor
    the project. This will be updated on a monthlybasis.
                                           Sanctions and remedies
Remedies for non-compliance with agreed time-lines for procurement decisions / service standards will be
established and will include the following remedies :

0   An Evaluationreportmustbe submittedto the Bank within six( 6) weeks o f bidproposal submission.
    Failure to do so will be deemed to be a failure o f due diligence; timely and appropriate action
    acceptable to the Bank will be required to remedy the situation.
    Request for extension o fbidvalidity for 8 weeks beyond the original validity will require the Bank's
    prior approval. Unless strongly justified, such approval will not be given and may be subject to mis-
    procurement.

The BRR will establish the remedial actions and sanctions for cases o f fraud and corruption that are
reported and for which evidence is found. This will include sanctions to staff proven to be involved in
such cases.

Inall procurement contracts, evidence o f fraud, corruption, collusion andcoercive practices will result in
termination o f the relevant contract, possibly with additional penalties imposed (such as fines,
blacklisting, etc. inaccordance with Bank and Government regulations. Disbursement o f funds to
provinces or districts may be suspended incases where there appears to be significant misuse o f funds.
Any entity that is found to have misusedfunds, or not effectively carried out key elements o f the anti-
corruptionplan, may be excluded from subsequent funding. Information regarding such cases, where
lessons are learned and funds are retrieved, will be widely disseminated.

Disbursement to any given contract/location can be suspended or stopped completely if cases o f
corruption are not dealt with effectively.


D.        World Bank Supervisionof the Anti-CorruptionAction Plan.

The Bank's Task Team will monitor implementationo fthe six elements, through inter alia:

    Disclosure o f information will be supervised mainly through (a) checking the frequency and
    comprehensiveness o f website updates and, (b) checking the distribution o f materials to key
    civil society groups and communities on a sample basis inparticipating districts.
    Mitigation of collusion risks will be supervised mainly through (a) tracking key data related
    to procurement (e.g. unit costs, schedules) and (b) periodic analysis o f all bids that have
    suffered fiom collusion, to identifyweaknesses inthe system.
    Mitigation of forgery and fraud risks will be supervised mainly through (a) reviewing the
    findings o f strong technical and financial audits, to be held during (interimaudits) and after
    (post audits) each year for a significant sample and (b) reviewing incoming remarks from
    thirdparty observers/monitoring.
    Civil societv oversight will be supervised mainly through (a) reviewing the attendance o f
    civil society groups in Public Accountability Meetings and (b) reviewing the reported
    inclusion o f CSOs inproject activities, particularly their roles inmonitoring procurement.
    The complaints handling system will be. supervised mainly through (a) periodic review of
    statistics based on problem typology, severity and location, and (b) field level checks to
    ensure that problems are being reportedand acted upon.


                                                      96

The system o f sanctions and remedies will be supervised mainly through (a) periodic review
o f the sanctions that have been enforced by the project based on typology, severity and
location, and (b) periodic review o f sanctions enforced by agencies external to the project
such as the police, attorney general and Corruption EradicationCommission.




                                           97

       ANNEX 10. SUSTAINABILITY OFINFRASTRUCTURE RECONTRUCTIONPROGRAM

A.       Introduction

Rebuilding infrastructure inAceh and Nias so as to reverse the destruction caused by the tsunami,
compensate for the under-development caused by years o f political strife and unlock the medium
to long term development potential o f the provinces i s a task o f enormous magnitude. The risks
that the efforts now underway mightprove unsustainable are substantial.

When it comes to selectingand implementingindividualinfrastructuresubprojects,public
authoritiesin charge ofthe reconstructionprogramare facing serious capacity constraints
that may underminethe quality of reconstructionefforts. BRRhasworked to improveits
technical capability andhassubstantially increasedits personnelwhich now numbersabout
600 staff. Still,the capacity of BRR remainsunevenand the tasks aheadcannotbe
successfully undertakenwithout further significant capacity strengthening. For their part,
local governments (at the district and provincial levels) are key actors inthe reconstruction
processandthey face capacity constraints that tend to beevenmore severe than those of
BRR.This issueis compoundedby the fact that BRR's mandateis expectedto end inApril
2009 andthat, after that date, local governmentswill likely shoulder most of the
responsibilityfor maintaining newly rebuiltassets and for developingnew infrastructure.

Inorder to ensure the sustainability o fthe reconstruction program for Aceh andNias, anumber o f
steps are being taken  - inthe context o f both the IREP and the IRFF- to tackle the issues outlined
above.

B.       TechnicalAssistance

Both IREP and IRFF include TA components that emphasize hands-on training o f local
government technical departments as well as o f BRR staff. Such TA i s an important tool that will
contribute to ensure the quality o f infrastructure subprojects undertaken during BRR's mandate
and to prepare local authorities for the post-BRR era. These capacity building efforts will cover
all aspects o f subproject selection and implementation:
    Subproject selection. Under REP and IRFF, consultants will assist local governments in
    designing annual investment plans and in prioritizing individual subprojects that meet local
    development needs, are in line with local government capacity, and are consistent with
    BRR's strategic plans. Subprojects to be financed under IRFF will have to meet technical,
    economic, financial and environmental eligibility criteria to be designed and published, ex
    ante, by BRR.
0   Detailed design and tender documents. The quality o f individual subproject preparation - in
    particular the drafting o f detailed designs and tender documents will be supported by IREP
                                                                      -
    and IRFF consultants. These consultants will help relevant government bodies with
    subproject preparation. IPMconsultants under IREP will also assist BRR in spot checking the
    quality o f subproject documents.
    Safeguards. Safeguard policies triggered by this project include environmental assessment,
    involuntary resettlement, and indigenous peoples. A range o f safeguards specialists will be
    hired under IREP and IRFF. One o f their initial tasks will be to conduct an environmental
    orientation study in order to determine how overall infrastructure planning can best take
    account o f environmental challenges. Other key tasks include development o f detailed
    operational procedures for implementation o f the safeguards framework for agreement with




                                                  98

    local environmental authorities and integration into the PIP, as well as delivery o f a program
    of training for BRR, local governments, and contractors.
    Procurement. A central procurement team will be established within BRR to facilitate the
    process o f procuring the various infrastructure subprojects identified and prepared under
    IREP. The IPMconsultants will be responsible for assisting this central procurement team to
    ensure that Government and Bank standards (as appropriate) are followed. As mentioned
    below, procurement responsibilities will, over time, be passed on from the central
    procurement team inBRR to local governments' procurement units.
    Subproject supervision. The IREP and IRFF consultants will assist with subproject
    supervision at the local level. The IPMconsultants will further assist BRR to set qualification
    standards for project managers and to prepare draft TORSfor supervising engineers. The IPM
    team will also assist BRR's quality control and inspectorate to spot check and undertake
    technical audits duringsubproject implementation and hand-over.
    Anti-corruption. The IPM consultants will support BRR's already well-developed anti-
    corruption efforts. The IPMwill work with BRR to improve the standard bidding documents
    as needed to give proper incentives to the contractors and to provide for independent
    supervision o f works.
    Maintenance. The IPM team will review and prepare options for simplified asset
    management systems to support management o f reconstruction assets after June 2009.

C.      Ownership

Steps are taken to ensure that local governments develop a sense o f ownership with respect to the
infrastructure assets financed by BRR. For example:
    Joint Secretariats are being set up in each district to facilitate the process o f selecting
    infrastructure subprojects and BRR will provide assistance to those Joint Secretariats. The
    Joint Secretariats comprise a number o f local government staff, along with representatives of
    the bappeda district office and the BRR decentralized office. The Joint Secretariats will
    coordinate the subproject selection process with all interested parties, including BRR, NGOs,
    etc. BRR staff, from the newly deconcentrated offices o f BRR set up at the regional and
    district level offices, will provide assistance to the Joint Secretariats and help them perform
    their subproject selection functions effectively.
    BRR will also assist local governments inpreparing and implementing selected subprojects.
    Once subprojects are selected and approved by BRR central for funding by BRRMDF,
    project teams will be formed at the local government level to start subproject preparation. The
    key members o f these project teams - in particular the satkers who manage subprojects - will
    be chosen by local governments and wi`ll generally be local government staff. They will
    however be appointed by BRR and they will benefit, in the performance o f their functions,
    from assistance by BRR staff from the relevant local or regional BRR offices.
    BRRwill undertake, with the help o f IREPconsultants, an assessment o f local governments'
    capacity with a view to progressively transfer implementation responsibilities to those local
    governments able to carry out such responsibilities (and the capacity building measures
    mentioned above are intended to enable transferring increasing levels o f responsibilities to
    local governments over time). As pointed out above, procurement responsibilities will thus be
    progressively transferred to local governments and the same i s true o f financial management
    responsibilities for example.




                                                . 99

D.      Buildinginstitutionalcapacity          -
The overall incentive framework under which local government officials operate inthe context o f
IRFFis gearedtowardbuildinglasting institutionalcapacity. For example:
o During the IRFF cycle, it is anticipated that local governments will share some o f the
    implementing responsibilities (procurement, financial management, etc) o f IREP TA - this
    will be determined on a case-by-case basis after capacity assessments are conducted by IPM
    and the district/provincial based IREPTA, and with NOL from the Bank.
o Making IRFFresources available to finance well prepared local infrastructure subprojects is
    expected to prompt local governments to improve their ability to select and prepare such
    subprojects so as to gain access to IRFF financing.
o A transition strategy - to be developed with the help o f REP consultants to help local
    governments prepare for the post-BRR period - will propose institutional mechanisms aimed
    at facilitating exchanges o f experience between all Aceh and Nias local governments
    involved in infrastructure reconstruction and development.

E.      Post-BRRarrangements

The local governments' capacity building measures described above are designed to help local
governments work together with BRR to select, design and implement high quality infrastructure
subprojects. Such capacity building measures will help local governments implement
infrastructure development programs on their own after the end o f BRR's mandate. Additional
measures are specifically designed to ease the transition to the post-BRR period:
0   BWGOIwill develop institutional mechanisms, by June 2008 at the latest, for the post April
    2009 period when its mandate i s scheduled to expire.
e   IRFF,which has a completion date ofJanuary 2010, will berestructured inline with the new
    institutional arrangements.
e   Unallocated funds under IRFF are currently held inreserve to be used, for example, to extend
    the TA carried out under REPbeyond June 2009 ifit proves desirable.




                                                100

                  ANNEX11.INFRASTRUCTURESUBPROJECTPIPELINE


A.      InfrastructureInvestmentPlanandPipelineof CandidateInvestments

The BRR has formulated a phased infrastructure program to reconstruct and provide essential
economic services for Aceh and Nias. Several o f the key multilateral and bilateral agencies,
donors, and NGOs have been involved in supporting infrastructure reconstruction - the former
involved in some o f the larger-scale items, and the latter supporting housing reconstruction and
social facility reconstruction. An initial pipeline o f prioritized infrastructure programs and
subprojects has been prepared by BRR for financing by different sources. Subprojects in the
pipeline cover the ports and harbors, sea defense and macro-drainage, roads and transportation,
water supply, sanitation and solid waste management, and urban and town essential municipal
services sectors. Some o f these subprojects may be potential candidates for MDFBRR funding
under IRFF. Criteria to select subprojects to receive hnding under IRFF are set out in detail in
Annex 4. The complete list o f subprojects in the initial pipeline prepared by BRR i s presented
below.

B.      Investment Subproject Preparationto Date

A pipeline o f infrastructure investments and subprojects has been prepared by several agencies in
coordination with BRR through a number of different initiatives.            It comprises a mix o f
subprojects and programs designated for implementation in the immediate term (2007) and those
which will require more detailed and rigorous preparation work and then be ready for subsequent
implementation (2007 and beyond, through 2010). Preparation of infrastructure investments of
different kinds has been undertaken by many different agencies, including the following:
              National Government authorities led by BAPPENAS in Jakarta;
              National Line ministries inpartiqular Public Works, and Transport;
              Various Provincial ministries, including Public Works, Transport and Water
              Resources;
              BRR, through adopting traditional budgeting approaches to project programming,
              with proposed projects/investments based principally on administrative and
              geographic allocation and distribution;
              BRR, through BRR-managed             specific   bilaterally  supported infrastructure
              preparation programs (at this stage supported mainly by Holland and France);
              NGOs such as CRS and ESP who have focused mainly on either sector specific
              activities or on preparing programs supporting their core activities (such as their
              housing programs);
              Bilateral agencies such as GTZ (supporting technical assistance programs including
              some investment subproject preparation), USAID (the West Coast Road)
              JapadJICS (preparation o f investments for Japanese funding), and KfW Australia
              (preparing programs supporting their core activities such as housingprograms);
              Multilateral agencies, including UNDP, UNICEF,the ADB and the MDF.

        Inparticular:
              The BRR and related government agencies have arranged for design and planning
              teams to undertake a series o f "detailed design" assignments, which are prepared at
              a limited level o f detail, generally insufficient to enable fully competitive bidding
              and quality implementation;




                                               .lo1

               The bulk o f the subproject pipeline envisaged for the 2007 budget i s for investments
               intended to meet the immediate, short term, dispersed and somewhat fragmented
                demands o f local governments; .
               The ADB as one o f the major donors in the reconstruction effort has allocated
                significant resources to development planning, and it i s expected would finance
                subprojects identified and prepared through these programs;
               The Government o f Japan has focussed on the preparation and financing o f a
               limited portfolio o f reconstruction investments;
               BRR has with MDF support through the IREPbegun to put in place arrangements
               for the program management and detailed preparation o f the main content o f the
               infrastructure reconstruction program. These REP-originated investments will be
               prepared to the standard required for possible JRFF funding, and could begin
               implementation in early CY 2007, with the majority being available for
               identification, selection and financing from midto end 2007;
               BRR has with support o f technical teams financed by the Governments o f France
               and Holland, commenced preparation o f detailed infrastructure reconstruction
               programs for beginning the provision o f shelter-related essential services, and sea
               defence systems. These could begin implementation in early CY 2007, with the
               majority being available for identification, selection and financing from mid to end
               2007;
               BRR has with MDFsupport, facilitated the UNDP to prepare an important program
               to rehabilitate four o f the main ports and related facilities.    These could begin
               implementation in early CY 2007, with the majority being available for
               identification, selection and financing from midto end 2007;

The next key steps will be to enable a rationale selection to be made o f possible programs and
subprojects, assess their readiness and relevance, prepare a balanced and least risk pipeline, and
develop an overall financing plan for their implementation and delivery, considering both
MDF/IRFFresources, and other funding mechanisms. This would need to be updated, balanced
and prioritized on a regular basis, as funding opportunities are realized and content adjusted in
response to findings duringdetailed preparation. A key responsibility o f the MDF-supported IPM
team once mobilized will be to manage this process.

C       CandidatePipeline

An initial candidate pipeline is set out below, by sector. Two main categories o f candidates have
been identified, namely A and B. Categorv A subprojects are those which have a defined
preparation program and firm funding arrangements (there are in some cases minor additional
minor unfunded activities identified). Based on the assessment o f the status o f preparation, they
can be expected to be suitable candidates for IRFF funding. Categorv B subprojects are those
which will clearly be required as part o f the infrastructure reconstruction process, but for which
preparation (either timing or funding) i s less clearly defined; hence their status as JRFF potential
candidates i s less well defined.




                                                  102

      L:
      8dcr3s 8dRs
               L:




      c!
      E             c!
                    E
     3         w
               2E  3

I     f        8    f

W
rA
2
I
,     4800
      &gJ %.E

      m P ,
      m o

               -
               9
               E

               b9
      E$       E
      v1       m
               P,
      E ?
      Vb9
      0 0      V
               6




I

      E
      v1
      *
      w
I

2E
64
?




      a
      5
      rz.
      a
      82
      a w
      5:

         u
         B    B
             u

      $ $
       I
     E k6'




I -




      U

3
-.
n 3
.
m
9n
CA
cr

    $ 3




m
9    m
     9

      J     J




i
0




      2E
      w3

 U




L
0

f

        w




       n
       2
       zt


     3
     gE g8
        S

       u
3
3                  3
                   3
       3
       3




              3


D.          IRF'FCandidateInvestmentPipelineCategoryA Subprojects: Sample Summary
Assessment

ReferenceDesignation:             Civil Works Contract #1, (comprised o f #1A, lB, and IC)


Subproject Nameand Description:            ThreePrimarvPortsReconstructionPromamfor
Sinabang, Calang andMeulaboh.
CalangComponent # 1B

The work would include reconstruction o f jetties, wharves, breakwaters, groynes, protection
arrangements, communications, access, and handling, storage and related facilities as needed. It
would comprise the following. a) Sinabang: Reconstruction o f the general cargo port; b) Calang:
reconstruction o f the general cargo port, and ferry terminal; c) Meulaboh: Reconstruction o f
landside facilities for cargo, ferry terminal, repair and renovation o f existing general cargo
facilities and wharfs.

The Calang Component The proposed development in Calang would comprise the following:
New Commercial Port with facilities on the north west side o f the existing township, including
the commercial port ,with a bulkhead wharf of 200 meters in length; approach channels; Ramp
for RoRo cargo and ferries; 15 hectare port yard; transit storage sheds and fuel depot and other
facilities; Office and security buildings; Ferry Terminal with related facilities for passenger and
vehicle handling; and Offices for port management and administration. The criteria and design
proposals would be reviewed in detail by the Department o f Sea Communications. The design
vessel for the commercial port would be a mixed cargo freighter with the following
characteristics: Size: 10,000 DWT; Overall Length: 160 m; Beam: 24 m; Draft: 9 m.

EstimatedCost:          $50m (#1A - Sinabang: $15m; #lB- Calang: $20;# l C - Meulaboh:
$15m).

CalanpComponent $20m

Context and Rationale:             Sea transport i s one o f the vital components in the economic
infrastructure o f Aceh, for both the transport o f goods and passengers, and for vital support to the
fishing industry. The earthquake and Tsunami caused major damage to most coastal facilities in
Aceh, exacerbating the huge damage to the economy and loss o f human life. The reconstruction
process has been made more difficult and costly inpart due to the damage to this vital part on the
transport infrastructure o f Aceh. The road netivork was poorly developed before the tsunami, and
inpart due to the destruction ofthe port systems, has further deteriorated, due to overloading and
poor maintenance,

Prior to the Tsunami, Calang was a township of regional importance on the west coast of Aceh
Province. A large percentage o f the population was killed and virtually all o f the buildings were
destroyed in the earthquake and tsunami o f 26 December 2004. The port facilities were also
destroyed. The township i s slowly being rebuilt and i s to be restored as a regional centre. At
present, a large number o f internally displaced people (IDPs) from the surrounding district are
housed in tents and temporary accommodation on the hillsides adjacent to the original township.
The Province intends i s to rebuild suitable port facilities in Calang so that it can act as a regional
port able to take medium sized international cargo vessels as well as cargo and passenger vessels
plying the west coast o f Sumatra. The facilities will also serve for ferry transport to the island of
Simeuleu and possibly Nias. Calang i s being developed as a strategic port because it has


                                                 112

relatively deep water and it i s possible to provide a sheltered berth that would be able to
withstand another earthquake and tsunami without being destroyed. In the unfortunate situation
o f another earthquake and tsunami o f the same magnitude as the December 2004, would act as a
regional rehabilitation and distribution centre.

 Status ofPreparation:Consultants engaged through UNDP for DED, with MDF financing.
Feasibility, site investigation and design work well advanced. DED and BD could be available
for most o f works by 09/06. It i s intended to bid these three ports as one large contract, to ensure
procurement and management efficiencies, facilitate construction supervision and quality
assurance, and seek the economic efficiencies to be gained through sharing mobilization costs of
the large scale equipment that would be needed for the works.            Bid documents not as yet
prepared; format yet to be agreed

PossibleIRFFCandidate:                    Yes: `for FY 07

Next Action to enableImplementation:               a) Safeguards pending.        These need to be
incorporated into consultants work plan in the immediate future FUNDING may be needed for
these; b) seek agreement with UNDP to instruct consultants to prepare bid documents in format
suitable for IRFF funding ( procurement to be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines); c)
proposals to be reviewed and cleared with national ports authority; d) design proposals to be
reviewed by BRR team and UNDP supervisory consultants to inparticular reflect recent Tsunami
concerns, and sea defence modelling findings; e) arrangements to be consolidated for long term
port management and maintenance; f)           finding and Consultant contracts needed for Port
oversight    GS Contract #3 ($2.0m)       and Three Primary Ports Construction supervision GS
Contract #2 ($2.5m).


ReferenceDesimation:              Civil Works Contract #6
SubproiectName andDescription:            BandaAceh Refupe& EscapeSvstemsProrJram.

This would comprise establish a zoning plan,. a refuge plan for Banda Aceh and implementing a
comprehensive construction and management program o f refuges and escape routes, linked
physically and through communications channels with the remainder o f the Tsunami Early
Warning System (TEWS) program. It would result in defined evacuation zones and defuge
facilities connected to the Banda Aceh, Aceh, and national warning infrastructure. This i s Item #
1inthe TEWS program.

EstimatedCost:           $10.0m

Context and Rationale:            The urgent need for robust and community-focussed hazard
management policies supported by appropriate physical measures, including refuges, escape
routes, and a linked early warning system has become increasingly evident, as the geo hazard
activity inAceh, Sumatra, and Indonesia has been increasing inrecent times. JICA-preparedrisk
maps o f Banda Aceh provide an initial foundation for refuge planning and escape route planning,
proposing possible locations o f escape routes, refuge locations etc; a start has been made towards
implementing road reconstruction and the construction o f three escape buildings. This needs to
now be expanded city wide, considering refuge capacity and locations, escape route design and
linkages to the warning systems and awareness campaigns. Special consideration also i s needed
for appropriate Indonesian escape building and refuge design criteria.

Banda Aceh and Aceh Besar are the most heavily populated areas o f Aceh, with an urban and
peri-urban population o f some 300,000.         These are the core areas at risk, and are their


                                                 113

sustainability i s vital to the social development and economy o f Aceh. Comprehensive planning
leading to an integral program would be essential buildingblocks to Aceh recovery. This should
be implementedin the immediate future, together with the other TEWS components

Statusof Preparation: Consultants engaged through Royal Netherlands Government support.
Planning, feasibility assessments (building on existing work undertaken with JICA support), site
investigation, and initial design work has commenced. DED and BD would be available for
works in phases, commencing in 01/07. It i s intended to bid activities in larger packages to the
extent practical, to ensure procurement and management efficiencies, facilitate construction
supervision and quality assurance, and seek the economic efficiencies to be gained through
sharing mobilization costs o f the large scale equipment that would be needed for the works. Bid
documents not as yet prepared; format yet to be agreed.

PossibleIRFFCandidate:                      Yes: possibly FY 07, certainly FY08.

Next Action to enableImulementation:               a) Safeguards pending. These are incorporated
into consultants work plan, and funded through existing commitments; b) seek agreement with
BRR to instruct consultants to prepare bid documents in format suitable for IRFF funding (
procurement to be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines); c) proposals to be reviewed and
cleared with national and local governments; d) design proposals to be reviewed by BRR team
and other agencies involved with urbadtownship planning and renewal; e) arrangements to be
consolidated for local government management and maintenance; f,                   supervision o f
implementation would be supported by ongoing Sea Defense consultants. Implementation would
be through Satkorlak, inconjunction with Banda Aceh and Aceh Besar local governments.



ReferenceDesimation:                Goods & Services Contract #6

Subproiect Name andDescription:             EarlyWarningPilot,Awareness & DrillsProgram

This would comprise the following 3 components: a) Tsunami Early Warning System
(TEWS) pilot program, providing warning equipment, refuge facilities, training/awareness for
selected communities o f Lhoong and the desa Tibang (Banda Aceh), implementing warning
system hardware in limited scale urban area pilot; b) Design and implementation o f an awareness
campaign, through informationtransfer by developing provincial level awareness activities
and subsequent implementation on local level; and c) Designing and implementing drill
procedures during a 2 year period in Aceh coastal regions. This would develop a standard
methodology for tsunami emergency drills for dissemination on local level. It would include
know-how transfer (train the trainer) to provide local level experience for community based
continuation o fthe drills. This comprises Items # 2, 3 and 4 inthe TEWS program.

EstimatedCost:            $1.25m

Context and Rationale:              The need for robust and community-focussed early warning
systems has become increasingly evident, as the geo hazardous condition of Aceh, Sumatra, and
Indonesia has been seen in recent times.         The hazards are from a wide range o f different
conditions. Following the Tsunami and related devastating earthquakes, the people o f Aceh have
embarked, with Government and donor support, on a maior large scale house reconstruction
program, vital to meeting basic social needs, but seriouslv at risk o f damage for natural hazards,
inparticular for the sea and local flooding. The needto mitigate this risk is clear to the National
Government and the BRR. Community awareness o f this issue and possible responses and


                                                 114

mitigation options i s vital. An initial tsunami early warning pilot program, implementing systems
on a limited scale in urban areas will bring experience o f local conditions to enable effective and
responsive systems to be implemented on a larger scale. An initial assessment found in one pilot
area found that escape roads and natural refuge hills are partly available but need reviewing.
Resettlement locations are planned or ongoing in low-lying areas; inundation maps would show
vulnerable areas which can be utilized as part o f the strategy. Awareness materials need to be
developed on a provincial level and have to be disseminated over the whole coastal area, through
multi-channel mass media including radio, tv and newspapers, highlighting the need for an
awareness team to develop an appropriate the methodology and the materials.

This needs to be complemented by broad based public awareness raising, aiming to build an
experience base inthe communities which should be done practically through conducted drills in
populated areas o f coastal Aceh and transfer o f knowledge on how to organize drills on
community basis.

Benefits o f these investments would accrue to the entire coastal population o f Aceh, and also to
adjacent provinces o f Sumatra.       Communication linkages would be made to the national
authorities, adding value to national hazard management efforts

Status of Preuaration:Consultants engaged through Royal Netherlands Government support.
Feasibility, site investigationand design work has commenced, DED and BDwould be available
for works in phases, commencing in 01/07. .It i s intended to bid activities in larger packages to
the extent practical, to ensure procurement and management efficiencies, facilitate construction
supervision and quality assurance, and seek the economic efficiencies to be gained through
sharing mobilization costs o f the large scale equipment that would be needed for the works. Bid
documents not as yet prepared; format yet to be agreed

PossibleIRFFCandidate:                      Yes: possibly FY 07, certainly FYO8.

Next Actionto enableImulementation:                a) Safeguards pending. These are incorporated
into consultants work plan, and funded through existing commitments; b) seek agreement with
BRR to instruct consultants to prepare bid documents in format suitable for IRFF funding (
procurement to be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines); c) proposals to be reviewed and
cleared with national and local governments; d) design proposals to be reviewed by BRR team
and other agencies involved with urbadtownship planning and renewal; e) arrangements to be
consolidated for local government management and maintenance; f )                  supervision o f
implementation would be supported by ongoing Sea Defense consultants. Implementation would
be through Satkorlak, in conjunction with local governments.



ReferenceDesignation:             Civil Works Contract #3

Suburoiect Name and Descriution:           CoastalWorks urotection, rehabilitationand
managementuromam.

Located in 10 areas most effected along the coast, this would consist o f construction and
management measures to address a) flood protection structures against sea damage; b) flood
protection structures against storm water and river flow damage; c) actions to combat chronic
beach and coastal erosion; d) select reconstruction o f coastal structures and roads; and e)
greenbelt and "soft" initiatives (see Annex 4 for details o f Initial Analyses).




                                                 115

EstimatedCost:           $24.7m (may need to be divided into two or three contracts, depending on
timing)

Context andRationale:            The damage done by the Tsunami to coastal infrastructure and
existing terrain and land forms was enormous. Since the majority o f the population o f Aceh lived
along the coastal plain, the costs were huge, with massive loss o f live and destruction o f assets
and livelihoods. Human loss o f life among these coastal communities was frequently over 25%
(Calang) and even up to 47% (Lhoong), which has had a devastating social and economic impact.
The destruction o f housing and physical infrastructure was inmost cases over 60% and often over
70%. In recent surveys, beach and dune erosion was found to have been serious, almost all
coastal roads and marine structures were damaged or destroyed, and flooding from local rivers
and normal rainfall was found to be significantly worse than before. Many o f these problems are
made worse by the flat terrain o f the coastal plains and the lowering o f natural ground levels
caused by the various earthquakes. In addition, most o f the river mouths have been blocked
following these events, exacerbating flooding and causing widespread environmental damage and
deterioration. The mountainous terrain o f Aceh has necessitated the need for sea transport, and
the construction o f roads along the coastal regions; these vital economic links were substantially
destroyed, together with the extensive aquaculture industry. At the same time, the people o f Aceh
have embarked, with Government and donor support, on a maior large scale house reconstruction
program, vital to meeting basic social needs, but seriouslv at risk o f damage for natural hazards,
inparticular for the sea andlocal flooding.

The clear and present need to begin to address these difficulties was recognizedby the BRR, and
the Royal Government o f the Netherlands has supported a team o f specialists, to analyse options,
develop sea defence and early warning strategies and mitigation measures, and move ahead with
detailed subproject preparation. The recent spate of geological events in Indonesia highlights the
need to rigorous technical analysis, followed by highquality implementation and construction o f
appropriate sea defence measures.

Benefits o f the proposed investments work would accrue initially to to the entire coastal
population o f Aceh, and also to adjacent provinces o f Sumatra. Communication linkages would
be made to the national authorities, adding value to national hazard management efforts

Status of Preparation:Consultants engaged-through Royal Netherlands Government support.
Feasibility, site investigationand design work has commenced, DED and BD would be available
for works in phases, commencing in 01/07. It i s intended to bid activities in larger packages to
the extent practical, to ensure procurement and management efficiencies, facilitate construction
supervision and quality assurance, and seek the economic efficiencies to be gained through
sharing mobilization costs o f the large scale equipment that would be needed for the works. Bid
documents not as yet prepared; format yet to be agreed

PossibleIRFFCandidate:                    Yes: possibly FY 07, certainly FYOS.

Next Action to enableImrdementation:              a) Safeguards pending. These are incorporated
into consultants work plan, and funded through existing commitments; b) seek agreement with
BRR to instruct consultants to prepare bid documents in format suitable for IRFF funding (
procurement to be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines); c) proposals to be reviewed and
cleared with national and local governments; d) design proposals to be reviewed by BRR team
and other agencies involved with urbadtownship planning and renewal; e) arrangements to be
consolidated for local government management and maintenance;                f)    supervision o f




                                                116

implementation would be supported by ongoing Sea Defense consultants. Implementation would
be through BRR, inconjunction with local governments.



Reference Designation:             Civil Works Contract #9

Subproiect Name and Description:           Banda Aceh Village Infrastructure Services Program
#4: 9 Villages:

This would comprise the construction o f roads, drainage, water reticulation and connecting on-
site and local-level off-site infrastructure services. Services need to be provided for 9 villages in
Meuraxa Kecamatan. These 9 villages have a total area o f some 540 hectare, needing about 55
kilometres o f roads and local streets, and some 60 kilometres o f storm drains and 55 kilometres of
water mains.     (Program #1 i s services for 2 Meuraxa Villages, already under construction;
Program #2 i s for 5 Meuraxa Villages, in final design; Program #3 i s for Jeulingke Village in
Kecamatan Syiah Kuala). Infrastructure services would connect to adjacent existing or planned
services, aiming to complete Meuraxa Kecamatan (the most damaged area inBanda Aceh) as an
integral program. (see Annex 4 for details o f Initial Analyses).

Estimated Cost:          $22.0m (may be divided into two or three contracts, dependingon timing).
Additional funding may be required, once the related interconnection secondary and primary
services have been definedmore clearly

Context and Rationale:             The damage done by the Tsunami to coastal infrastructure and
existing terrain, infrastructure and housing was particularly extreme in Banda Aceh and parts of
adjacent Aceh Besar. Loss o f human life in some villages in Meuraxa in particular was up to
80%, as was much o f the housing stock in some areas. House reconstruction has with donor,
government and individual support gathered pace, but the provision o f essential services has
lagged behind. Inthe 16 villages, some 3,400 houses were destroyed, o f which 2400 are planned
to be rebuilt as part o f the current ongoing donor and Government supported programs. It i s
expected however that in time, most if not all o f the available house plots will be rebuilt on,
stressing the need for and importance o f fully functioning infrastructure services. The local level
infrastructure reconstruction needs in the 16Meuraxa villages, with a total area of some 820
hectare, are for about 135 kilometres o froads and local streets, and some 115 kilometres o f storm
drains and 132 kilometres o f water mains. To these would be added plot access, sanitation and
water connections, The importance o f the related sea defence and early warning programs are
fully recognizedby BRR,to safeguard, inparticular inthe Banda Aceh case, the large scale house
reconstruction program underway, followed by the provision o f essential infrastructure services;
Meuraxa inparticular i s seriously at risk o f damage from natural hazards, inparticular from both
marine and storm water local flooding.

The need to begin to address these difficulfies was recognized by the BRR, and the French
Government has supported a team o f specialists, to analyse reconstruction options, and move
ahead, in conjunction with local level leadership, with a phased program for the design o f
appropriate infrastructure services.

Benefits o f the proposed investments work would accrue initially to the Meuraxa communities in
Banda Aceh, and also to adjacent areas inBanda Aceh, as implementationproceeds. The benefits
would derive both from the practical physical improvement o f living conditions in Meuraxa and




                                                  117

adjacent villages, and from the technical assistance team demonstratinga methodical approach to
implementation.

Status of Preparation:Consultants SOGREAH engaged through French Government support,
are working together with national consultants financed by BRR. Feasibility studies and
community planning i s substantially complete; topographical survey, site investigation and design
work has commenced. DED and BD would-be available for works in phases, commencing in
01/07.   It is intended to bid activities in larger packages to the extent practical, to ensure
procurement and management efficiencies, facilitate construction supervision and quality
assurance, and seek the economic efficiencies to be gained through sharing mobilization costs o f
the large scale equipment that would be needed for the works.          Bid documents not as yet
prepared; format yet to be agreed. Safeguards and local level construction supervision provisions
needto be made, as part o f possible IRFF support.

PossibleIRFFCandidate:                     Yes: possibly FY 07, certainly FYOS.

Next Action to enableImplementation:               a) Safeguards pending. These are incorporated
into the consultants timing work plan, but need to be funded; b) seek agreement with BRR to
instruct consultants to prepare bid documents in format suitable for RFF funding ( procurement
to be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines); c) proposals to be reviewed and cleared with
national and local government; d) design proposals to be reviewed by BRR team and other
agencies involved with urbadtownship planning and renewal; e) arrangements to be consolidated
for local government management and maintenance; f) supervision o f implementation would be
supported by arrangement yet to be made by BRR with possible MDF support. Implementation
would be through BRR, inconjunction with local government.



ReferenceDesimation:               Civil Works Contract #8

Subproject Name and Description:           BandaAceh Village InfrastructureServices Program
#3: Jeulinpke Villape:

This would comprise the construction o f roads, drainage, water reticulation and connecting on-
site and local-level off-site infkastructure services. Services need to be provided for Jeulingke
Village in Kecamatan Syiah Kuala. This village has a total area o f some 950 hectare, needing
about 17 kilometres o f roads and local streets, and some 20 kilometres o f s t o m drains and 17
kilometres o f water mains.     (Program #1 i s services for 2 Meuraxa Villages, already under
construction; Program #2 i s for 5 Meuraxa Villages, in final design; Program #3 i s for Jeulingke
Village inKecamatan Syiah Kuala). Infrastructure services would connect to adjacent existing or
planned services, aiming to complete Jeulingke Village in Syiah Kuala Kecamatan, second most
damaged area inBanda Aceh. (see Annex 4 for details o f Initial Analyses).

Estimated Cost: $7.0m. Additional funding may be required, once the related interconnection
secondary and primary services have been definedmore clearly

Context andRationale:             The damage done by the Tsunami to coastal infrastructure and
existing terrain, infrastructure and housing was particularly extreme in Banda Aceh and parts o f
adjacent Aceh Besar. Loss o f human life inparts o f Jeulingke Village particular was about 25%.
House reconstruction has with donor, government and individual support gathered pace, but the
provision o f essential services has lagged behind. Some 425 houses were destroyed, and are
planned to be rebuilt as part o f the current ongoing donor and Government supported programs.


                                                118

It is expected however that in time, most ifnot all of the available house plots will be rebuilton,
stressing the need for and importance o f fully functioning infrastructure services. The local level
infrastructure reconstruction damage in the adjacent areas and villages especially towards the
north was especially bad, and the reconstruction o f services in Jeulingke will facilitate the
effective construction in these badly deprived adjacent areas. As with Meuraxa, the importance
of the related sea defence and early warning programs and the need to develop these in the
exposed villages are fblly recognized by BRR, to safeguard population and the large scale house
reconstruction program underway. The provision o f essential infrastructure services will enable
this to be done more rationally. These coastal villages (part o f Banda Aceh) are seriously at risk
of damage fromnatural hazards, inparticular frombothmarine and storm water local flooding.

The need to begin to address these difficulties was recognized by the BRR, and the French
Government has supported a team o f specialists, to analyse reconstruction options, and move
ahead, in conjunction with local level leadership, with a phased program for the design o f
appropriate infrastructure services.

Benefits o f the proposed investments work would accrue initially to the Jeulikgke communities in
Banda Aceh, and also to adjacent areas inBanda Aceh, as implementation proceeds. The benefits
would derive both from the practical physical improvement o f living conditions in their village
and adjacent villages, and from the technical assistance team demonstrating a methodical
approach to implementation.

Status of Preuaration:Consultants SOGREAH engaged through French Government support,
are working together with national consultants financed by BRR. Feasibility studies and
community planning i s substantially complete; topographical survey, site investigation and design
work has commenced. DED and BD would. be available for works in phases, commencing in
01/07.    It is intended to bid activities in larger packages to the extent practical, to ensure
procurement and management efficiencies, facilitate construction supervision and quality
assurance, and seek the economic efficiencies to be gained through sharing mobilization costs o f
the large scale equipment that would be needed for the works.           Bid documents not as yet
prepared; format yet to be agreed. Safeguards and local level construction supervision provisions
needto be made, as part o fpossible IRFF support.

PossibleIRFFCandidate:                   Yes: possibly FY 07, certainly FYOS.

NextActionto enableImulementation:                a) Safeguards pending. These are incorporated
into the consultants timing work plan, but need to be funded; b) seek agreement with BRR to
instruct consultants to prepare bid documents in format suitable for IRFF funding ( procurement
to be in accordance with World Bank Guidelines); c) proposals to be reviewed and cleared with
national and local government; d) design proposals to be reviewed by BRR team and other
agencies involved with urbadtownship planning and renewal; e) arrangements to be consolidated
for local government management and maintenance;          supervision o f implementation would be
supported by arrangement yet to be made by BRR with possible MDF support. Implementation
would be through BRR, inconjunction with local government.




                                                119

         4
c
0




.-'54
h
c)



c)

              c




      w
      26..
      v)




9
aB




                   3
                   2

    L0     L
           0




      U


 ::a
.C
 C
k
.-
5C



FC
 a
l2C
e2
c/1
 i
cC
 k:
c/1

             M
             2



     C
     0
     .I
     '
     0

     '8Em
     2

     U'
     0 1



3    3a 8
u    E
W    .I
     w"'


     8
     .I
     ua
     c)

     .I
     h

     n

      2,
      3
2,
3

8
Y
V



V




  --L
     CI ZI z?2 a

       ANNEX12. SUMMARIESOFIRFFTECHNICALASSISTANCE                    TERMSOFREFERENCE

A.       INTRODUCTION

This annex provides the detailed scope o f work and key tasks from the draft terms of reference
(TOR) prepared for Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang that are currently receiving support
from existing contractual arrangements with Sogreah financed by the French Government until
January 2007, but will be supported by IRFF henceforth between January 2007-January 2010.
These three districts collectively form the North Coast logistical area. The North Coast TOR
illustrates tasks to provide assistance to the local governments in strategic planning, subproject
design and implementation, and institutional development support and training. The draft TORS
for the two project components are inthe project file.

B.       North Coast InfrastructurePlanning, Design, and Construction Supervision (US$2
million)

Detailedscope ofwork. Implementationo fpriority works should start as soon as feasible upon the
Consultant's mobilization. The Consultant's first 6 months may not rigidly mirror the proposed
project cycle (see Annex 1) as Consultants will utilize preexisting resources (plans, studies, project
documents, etc) to deliver investments that are recognized as strategic priorities. The consultants
will need to adopt flexible, creative, and pragmatic approaches. To the extent possible, specific
responsibilities o fthe consultant are describedbelow.

The programi s divided intopreparation (Tasks I,   11,&111)and investment tasks (Tasks IV&V).




Task I-FieldAssessments

Data Collection
The Consultant shall immediately collect and vet data that are relevant to the assignment. The
BRR will provide the Consultant with copies o f progress/stocktaking reports, all available base
maps and aerial photography (digital form). Some topographic mapping may be available. The
consultant should identify all communities that already have spatial and infrastructure plans, and
examine their status and quality o f the materials. The Consultant team should also examine
existing natural hazard maps to determine whether the project will be implemented in an area
vulnerable to natural hazards, such as floods, earthquakes, landslides, etc.

The Consultants will coordinate with and obtain information on the relevant programs o f the key
NGO/donors already working inthe project area, especially those involved inhousing settlements


                                                 126

and infrastructure. All o f this data should be cataloged, and findings shared with the BRR and
IPMconsultants.

The Consultant will need to assess the availability, obtain copies of, and review key district
government planning documents, where feasible and when available.            Results will be cataloged
and shared with the BRR. Important documents the Consultant should target include; Renstra
Strategis (Five-year     Strategic Plan), PPJM-Perencanca Pembangunan Jangka Menengah
(Medium-tern      Development Plan),       Pola Dasar Pengbangunan              (Twenty-Development
Framework), and Rencana Pembangunan Satahun (Annual Development Plan). Many o f these
documents were made before the tsunami. Although most o f the materials will be outdated and
with varying quality and utility- the Consultant will determine which aspects (district vision for
development, priority investments, etc) o f these documents are still applicable in the current
context. The local government counterparts will assist the Consultant to verify that existing plans
still have `buy-in' from community stakeholders. By the time o f consultant mobilization, some
district level project prioritization work may be advanced.        The Consultant should draw on
existing work and established systems when Still applicable, but will realistically have to fill in
gaps to implement the program. The Consultant should provide professional advice to local
governments on areas such as the overall feasibility and priorities o f subprojects based on
technical, economic, and sustainability criteria.

Institutional Assessment
The consultant will undertake a preliminary institutional analysis o f each o f the local
governments inthe project area. The assessment will evaluate current capacity for infrastructure
delivery, on-going activities, and obvious areas requiring further support. This assessment will be
at outline level, only in order to (i)
                                     provide a first view of the scale o f capacity buildingneeds of
individual districts and as a group, (ii)determine strategies and approaches for best interacting
with each local government, and (iii)  identify the relative strengths o f local governments and how
they can be integrated with implementation o f the TA program. After the consultants first 6
months, the Institutional assessment should be updated and prepared in more detail to form the
basis for preparationo fPhase V- Capacity Building works.

Task I1 Planning. Prioritization,and Selection
         -

Upon mobilization the Consultant will worE on two initiatives in parallel, the (i)Immediate
Infrastructure Project Plan (IIPP) and the (ii) Annual Investment Plan (AIP). The Consultant will
use findings from Task I(Field Assessments) and work closely with local governments and the
BRR to develop criteria, prioritize, and select subprojects. Both the local government and the
BRR must approve all subprojects,within the IIPP and AIP before they can be implemented.
IIPPs and AIPs will be made for each district government in the project area - both may be
submitted to the BRR on a rolling basis upon completion (as opposed to bundling all district
plans together) to expedite the process.

Immediate Infrastructure Project Plan (IIPP)
The Consultant will use its field assessments and selection criteria to quickly identify subprojects
that are priorities o f local governments, and BRR, and local stakeholders for inclusion into an
Immediate Infrastructure Project Plan (IIPP).          Many subprojects will already have been
identified by earlier work conducted by Sogreah, funded by the French Government.

The intention o f the IIPP i s that the Consultant will immediately start preparation o f select
strategic subprojects for construction start with the first 6 months o f mobilization. Both the local
governments and the BRR must agree on the subprojects. The Consultant shall provide


                                                 127

professional guidance and review existing planning, subproject selection, and preparation works
o f the local governments, the BRR, or other organization. Selected subprojects should be non-
contentious (low safeguards risks, widespread acceptance by local stakeholders, etc), ideally be
priority investments supporting the housing and shelter programs, andor provide immediate relief
to communities still suffering from damages from the disaster, and meet the eligibility criteria for
subprojects to be financed by IRFF outlined in Annex 4. The IIPP shall be developed in close
coordination with the local governments.

The IIPP will contain an initial estimate o f the cost o f the works, subproject descriptions, rational
for inclusion in the IIPP, schedule o f works, and expected impactshenefits. The consultant will
submit the IIPP to the local government for approval, then to the BRR.Once cleared by the BRR,
procurement o f contractors for IIPP subprojects can begin. The first IIPP should be submitted to
the BRR for review 2 months after mobilization.

Annual Investment Plan (AIP)
The consultants will work closely with the district governments (Office o f the Bupati, Bappeda,
Public Works, and other relevant agencies) and BRR to analyze alternatives, prepare feasibility
studies, and identify priority investments for each o f the district governments inthe AIP.

The AIPs identify and evaluate the districts' priority infrastructure investments to support
Initiative I infrastructure. Infrastructure under Initiatives 2, 3,4, & 5 are under the scope o f other
consultancies under the IREP framework4'. The AIP will recommend the investments best suited
for funding support from the BRR, and those, which should be developed and financed by the
local government, province, or other sources o f support such as NGOs or donors.                   AIP
subprojects supported by the BRR must be .coordinated with, and fit within the BRR's IREP
framework.

AIP subprojects should be at the kabupaten level, but in some cases it may be sensible and cost
effective to include some sub-district investments. In these cases, sub-district investments will
need to be coordinated closely within the BRR with the Office o f the Deputy o f Housing and
Settlements,

The BRR (through the Chief o f the IREP PMU) and IPMconsultants will develop the format and
a guideline o f the AIP, as well as the general criteria for AIP subprojects to be funded by the
BRR. In general, the expected content o f the AIP will be to provide all agreed infrastructure
locations, key levels, proposed layout o f services (roads, water distribution system, drainage
system, IT and electricity distribution system etc.) as well as (i)design parameters to be used in
the DED, (ii)details o f any recommended phasing, showing clearly the first phase works, (iii)
recommended procurement and implementation proposals and schedules, (iv) initial capacity
buildingneeds for sustainable operation and maintenance o f the systems (v) an updated capital
cost estimate o f the recommended works and an estimate o f the recurrent annual operation and
maintenance costs, and (v) a feasibility study when required. The AIP i s submitted to the district
government for approval, and then to the IREPPMU.

Environmental and social screening o f `approved' AIP (and IIPP) subprojects will be carried out
by the IREPPMUinorder to determine what technical documents are required. The BRR will be
responsible for screening supported by IPMteam safeguards specialists reviewing all subprojects
submitted. Screening results will be formally communicated to the respective local governments


47The Infrastructure Rehabilitation Enabling Program(IREP) consists o f the Infrastructure Program
Management, PDCS-Nias, and Strategic Infrastructure consultants.


                                                  128

and to relevant local environmental authority. The Consultant (supported by the local
governments) will be responsible for preparingrequired technical documents (LARAP, AMDAL,
DED, etc). It is expected that approximately 10-15% o f the subprojects preparedunder this TA
will require AMDAL and/or LARAP, and that a further 40-50% will require UKL/UPL and/or
abbreviated LARAP.

The BRR's Infrastructure Board within the IREP P M U will review the AIPs (with support from
the IPMconsultants). The first round o f AIPs (already approvedby local governments) should be
submitted on a rolling, `as ready,' basis within 3 months o f mobilization. AIPs will be updated
every six months to adjust for changes in the implementation schedule, or to initiate new
programs. The Chief Operating Officer o f the BRR will approve the individual subprojects to be
supported. Once subprojects are approved, the BRR Infrastructure Procurement Committee will
initiate procurement (expressions o f interest, etc) in a parallel process, while the consultant
prepares the detailed engineering designs and tender documents (DED&TD).

Task I11- SubDroiect Preuaration

Detailed Engineering Designs and Tender Documents (DED & TO)
The Consultant will be responsible to prepare detailed engineering designs and tender documents
(DED & TD) for all o f the approved works in the IIPPs and AIPs supported under IREP. This
includes preparation o f detailed specifications, bill o f quantities for civil works, schedule o f
requirements for goods, tender drawings and contract documentation in accordance with
Indonesian National, Provincial and other relevant standards guidelines and instructions. The IPM
consultant will support coordination and harmonization o f standards and technical solutions to
facilitate operations and maintenance, considering the tradition o f poor maintenance.

Review and final approval o f all required environmental and social studies will be a precondition
for completion o f detailed design, which will have to demonstrate how social and environmental
mitigation has been handled, and possibly integrated into detailed subproject designs. The BRR
will review and sign off on all completed DED & TDs, including further safeguards review to
ensure key impacts identified have been adequately addressed.

Duringdetailed engineering design, the consultant will undertake the necessary field studies and
document preparation activities, including refinement as needed to the proposed list o f IIPP &
AIP approved subprojects, required environmental and social work, and preparation o f detailed
engineering and bidding documents. These activities should be carried out by field supervision
teams in the most cost-effective manner.        The activities to be covered during the detailed
engineering phase o f the assignment include:

     a. review and finalization o f IIPP and AIP works plans, including review and updating o f
         preliminary engineering reports, economic evaluation, and social and environmental
         screening o f approved subprojects;
     b. preparation o fenvironmental/safeguardsdocuments, including LARAPsand AMDALs,
     C.  social assessment and preparation o f resettlement action plans (RAPS) and ethnic
         minority development plans (EMDP/IPDP), as determined are needed
     d. topographic surveys,
     e.  for roads, material source surveys locating sites o fborrow pits and aggregate quarries and
         identify sufficient quantity and quality o f each fill and aggregate materials at economic
         haul distance, and carry out laboratory testing as required to ensure that identified
         materials meet design specifications.



                                                129

    f. geological and soil investigations; including foundation investigation as required for
        design for bridges and culverts, soil sampling and testing for roads and other tests as
        needed for professional detailed engineering design o f works;
    g.  hydrological investigations and calculations as required for bridge, culvert and drainage
        design including review o f existing hydrological data, meteorological data, and carrying
        out additional hydrological survey ifnecessary.
   h. detailed, safe, economic, complete engineering design for IREP supported roads and
        short bridges (<25 meters), including detailed design o f vertical and horizontal
        alignments, cross sections, ,pavement structures; drainage, culverts and other structures
        such as retailing walls, causeways, river training and river bank protection and
        approaches; and preparation o f all related detailed engineering drawings and setting out
        data,
    i. preliminary preparation of construction methods and schedules as bases for cost
        estimates, and identification o f critical equipment/personnel needs for quality works,
        packaging o f works, and schedules,
        preparation o f detailed cost estimates, including preparation o f detailed analysis o f inputs
        and prices for items such as labor, materials, equipment, tax, overhead, profit, etc,
        breakdown o f the foreign currency and local currency requirements, and preparation o f
        the related disbursement schedules,
   k. preparation o f complete biddingdocuments following applicable World Bank or National
        Standard BiddingDocument specifically detailing how design standards will be met and
        quality assured by the contractor
   1.   prepare an updated capital cost estimates o f the DED works and an estimate o f the
        recurrent annual operation and maintenance costs,
   m. prepare a DED Report (i)summarizing the main points o f the DED, including any
        variation(s) from the A P recommendations with justification for the variation(s) (ii)
        recommendations for the provision o f local technical support for supervision o f
        construction o f the works giving details o f staff time inputs, level o f experience required
        and terms o freference,
   n. coordinationwith the IREP PMUfor tendering o fworks as required.


TaskIV   -- Construction   Suuervision

The Consultant will be responsible for construction supervision o f the civil works under REP,
and specifically to act as the "Engineer/Contracts Manager" as defined in the construction
contract documents. The Consultants broad responsibilities include;

   a. provide documents and support as required for the efficient competitive procurement by
        BRR / PM consultant of studies, equipment and construction works following World
        Bank Procurement Guidelines or BRR's Procurement Guidelines, whichever i s
        applicable,
   b. ensure contractual establishment o f contractors and supervision consultants on sites
        including appropriate staff, equipment, laboratories and other facilities for contractual
        work capacity and quality. Subprojects will be supervised directly by the Consultant.
   c.   develop a format for a Monthly Construction Progress Report (MCPR) to monitor the
       physical and financial progress o f the works.         The BRR and IPM consultants shall
        approve the MCPR format, and the Consultant shall train appropriate personnel how to
       prepare and submit the report,
   d. participateinmonthly meetings arranged and attendedby the BRR, the local government,
       and the construction contractor(s) to discuss progress o f each contract package and other


                                                 130

        issues to be addressed. The Consultant shall prepare and submit meeting minutes for
        each monthly meeting,
    e.  establish appropriate quality monitoring and reporting procedures and develop
        contractors' quality assurance/ quality control systems,
    f. review eachcontractor's MCPRandprepare a summary for all contracts,
    g*  prepare Final Engineering Reports; including review for accuracy the 'As Built'drawings
        prepared by the Contractor for all the works prepare progress reports for each contract in
        a form acceptable to the BRR. These reports will include, as a minimum, details o f the
        physical and financial status o f each contract, details o f delays and the budgetary effect o f
        particularproblems with suggested solutions,

During construction supervision the Consultant will supervise a team consisting o f the
appropriate professional skills as mentioned in the job descriptions. Their scope o f activities
generally follows;

    j.  provide such information as i s necessary for the Contractor to set out the works and
        check that the setting out i s correct,
    k. review and approve the Contractor's work proposals, working drawing drawings etc. to
        the extent, required by the contract, advise modifications where necessary and approve
        these proposals,
    1.  review and approve the Contractor's work program and, where necessary, request
        revisions o f these to account for the current status o f the works, ensure adherence to the
        construction schedule,
    m. agree with the Contractor on systems o f measurement for interim payment certificates
        and verify the quantities for such certificates,
    n. make recommendations to the BRR on the Contractor's claims for additional payment,
        extension o f time and other matters, based on the Consultant's interpretation o f the
        Contract documents, the relevant site conditions and the Contractor's detailed
        submissions,
    0. in the event o f variations to the works being required, prepare the necessary documents,
        negotiate these with the Contractor and submit these to the BRR for approval,
    P.  through inspectors o f works and othel: site staff as may be required, supervise the day-to-
        day operations o f the contractor to ensure quality o f workmanship and compliance with
        the contract, including day-to-day monitoring o f environmental compliance,
    9.  maintain detailed daily diaries, photographs and documents concerning relevant events
        and activities, call and keep minutes o f routine site meetings between the parties to the
        Contract,
    r. cany out final inspections o f the works and recommend the issue o f completion
        certificate,
    S.  check the Contractor's final accounts and certify them correct for payment,
    t. prepare completion reports ina form acceptable to BRR,
    U. provide any other specialized services as may be necessary and agreed upon.


Quality management i s required to ensure that the proposed investments are economically,
financially, and institutionally sustainable and have positive health and social impacts. The
overall BRR (and specifically IREP) program execution shall be monitored with the support o f a
Management Information System (MIS) administered by the IREP IPM consultant.                      The
Consultants will work closely with the BRR and IPMconsultant on all aspects o f quality control,
including:
    ensuring infrastructure components included in the Annual Investment Plan follow the BRR
    and IPM consultants guidelines on meeting economic, social, and environmental criteria, and


                                                 131

     also equitable distribution between districts, connectivity, and integration with the housing
    program, peach process, and economic development,
     ensuring that appropriate bidding documents for civil works and goods, and TORSfor
     consultant services are used,
     introduction o f quality assurance systems, incentives, penalties, technical audit, extended
     guarantee and maintenance periods, and performance based maintenance contracts, and
     establishing appropriate quality monitoring and reportingprocedures.

Task V Capacity Building
         -

The current capacities o f the district governments in the project area are low, and vary between
districts. It i s anticipated that at the beginning o f this project, the consultant and BRR will play a
greater role in provision o f the district level infrastructure. Local governments have expressed
the importance and need for increasing capacity. It i s a goal o f the BRR and the IREP program to
incrementally transfer greater responsibilities'(in planning, budgeting,procurement, construction
management, and operations and maintenance) from the BRR to the local governments in
preparation o f BRR's departure. The capacity building program will be divided into three tasks,
(i)`teaming-up'        transfer o f knowledge,      (ii)capacity building preparation,       and (iii)
implementation.

Due to the urgency o f expediting subprojects (to support the escalating housing program), the
consultant will adopt a pragmatic `learning by doing' approach for increasing the capacity o f
local governments. The Consultant will use. the Outline Institutional Assessment (prepared in
Task I) find opportunities to `team-up' with local government staff, utilizing their existing
         to
skills to engage them (however feasible) into the subproject. For example, staff from the district
public works office could work with the consultant's design team to prepare subprojects and
while transferring skills and knowledge from the Consultant on current best practices. The
Consultant should highlight in its Monthly and Annual Status Reports collaborative `teaming-up'
arrangements it has developed. The Consultant should seek ways o f engaging local government
at the start, and increasing activities throughout the project.

The Consultant will use the Final Institutional Assessment to identify the relative strengths and
weakness o f district governments to prepare a program for cauacitv building training and
organizational strengthening. Based on the expected IREP works program, and anticipated needs
after the BRR's departure - the consultant will recommend areas for targeted training. These
recommendations will be submitted (as an annex to the Final Institutional Assessment) to the
BRR and IPM consultants. The Consultants will coordinate with the BWIREP consultants to
develop local government capacity buildingprograms. Where key gaps exist, The Consultant will
recommend specific programs in the areas o f planning, budgeting, revenue improvement,
procurement, safeguards preparation, operations and maintenance, for example.

The Consultant will coordinate and implement the capacity buildingtraining programs. Programs
should start within 9 months o f the Consultants mobilization. Local governments will be expected
to contribute budget for trainings, with other sources o f funding from provincial and central
government.       The Consultant should develop partnerships with NGOs and donors already
involved in local government capacity building. Programs should be conducted locally to
maximize IREPprogram funds.




                                                  132

                       ANNEX13.PROJECTPREPARATIONAND SUPERVISION

                                                        P1anned                    Actual
Project Concept Review by MDF                            6/20/06                   6/20106
Initial PID to PIC                                       8110106                   8/10106
Initial ISDS to PIC                                      8/10/06                   8110106
Appraisal                                                7/27/06                   7/27/06
BoardRVP approval                                        9115/06
Planneddate o f effectiveness                           10115/06
Planned closing date                                     6/30/12

Key institutionsresponsible for preparation o f the project:
1.       Agency for the Reconstruction o f Aceh and Nias (BRR)
2.       World Bank

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                                     Title                          Unit
Aniruddha Dasgupta          Lead Urban Planner, (Task Team Leader)                    EASUR
Michel Kerf                 Infrastructure Policy Advisor                             EASIN
Dean Cira                   Senior Urban Specialist                                   EASUR
Imad Saleh                  Lead Procurement Specialist                               EAPCO
UnggulSuprayitno            Financial Management Specialist                           EAPCO
Steven Burgess              Senior Social Development Specialist                      EASSD
Melinda Good                Senior Counsel                                            LEGEA
Andre Bald                  Infrastructure Specialist (consultant)                    EASUR
Angus Mackay                Environment Advisor (consultant)                          EASEN
David Sislen                Senior Infrastructure Economist                           LCSFU
Geoffrey Read               Municipal Infrastructure Spec. (consultant)               EASUR
Anders Bonde                Transport Adviser (consultant)                            EASTR
John Cameron                Financial Management Specialist (consultant)              EASUR
Kalpana Seethepalli         Infrastructure Economist (consultant)                     EASIN

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$120,50048
     2. Trust funds:     US$0
     3. Total: US$120,500

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval: US$50,000
     2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$450,000




48Surplus funds fromIREPBB (Bank Budget) resources were used for IRFFpreparation.




                                                    133

MAP SECTION


                                     95E                                               96E                                                          INDONESIA
                                                                                                                      INFRASTRUCTURE RECONSTRUCTION AND
                                                                                                             REHABILITATION PROGRAM FOR ACEH AND NIAS

                                                                                                                                PROJECT AREAS                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                NATIONAL ROADS                                                 KABUPATEN CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                PROVINCIAL ROADS                                               PROVINCE CAPITAL
          6N                                                                                  6N                              RAILROADS                                                      KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES

                                          We                Sabang                                                                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARY


                                                                                                                                              97E                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                           Breueh                                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                   Banda Aceh                                                                                                              S t r a i t         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.




                                        Lhoknga                                    Sigli                                                                                    o f
                                                        Seulimeum                           Taupingraya                Bireun              Lhokseumawe
                                                                Jantho                                  Meureudu                                            Lhok Sukon




                                                  Lamno                   Keumala                                                                                                   M a l a c c a
          5N                                                                                        Lutung                                   Cot Girek                              Peureulak                                                  5N

                                                                                                    Geumpang

                                                    Calang

                                                                                                                       Takengon                                   Peunaron
                                                                                                                                                                            Langsa
                                                                                                                        Ceulala
                                                                                                                                                  Uwak                                                 Karang Baru




                                                                                                              Jeuram
                                                                                 Meulaboh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Pangkalan-
                                                                                           Kutanibong                                                           Blangkejeren                                                          brandan
          4N
                                                                                                                       Lamie


                                                                                                                        Blang Pidie


                                                                                                                                                                        Kutacane



                                                                                                                                                        Tapaktuan




                                                                                                                                                    Kandang
          3N                             Pulau-pulau
                                                   Kokos
                                                                     Lewak                                                                                       Bakungan
                                                                                     Sibigo


                                                          Simeulue
                                                                                Nasreheu                                                                                            Rundeng

                                                                                                 Inor                Sinabang

                                                                                                                                                   P. Balee
                                                                                                                       Lasikin                                      Ti. Nibong    Singkil

                                                                                                                      Lasia                                       Tuangku
                                                                                                                        Babi            Bangkaru
          2N




                    I N D I A N O C E A N


                                  95E                                             96E


                              MYANMAR                                                 Northern
                                                  VIETNAM                             Mariana
             INDIA                      THAILAND                                   Islands (U.S.)

                                             CAMBODIA                                                           MARSHALL
                                                                  PHILIPPINES             Guam (U.S.)
                                                                                                                ISLANDS

                    SRI LANKA
                                                                                                                                                   Nias
                                                      BRUNEI               PALAU
                          Area of
            MALDIVES                      M A L A Y S I A
                             Map                                                   FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
                                                                                                                              1N                                                                                                              1N
         0                                     SINGAPORE

                                                                                                                    NAURU
                                                I N D O N E S I A
                                                                                    PAPUA
                                                                                    NEW GUINEA                  SOLOMON
                                                                   TIMOR-LESTE                                  ISLANDS

                 I N D I A N O C E A N                                                                                           0   10  20  30  40  50 Kilometers
         15S                                                                                                VANUATU                                                                                                                                IBRD

JUL
                                                                                                      New Caledonia              0     10    20     30      40      50 Miles                                                                            34927
   Y                                                               A U S T R A L I A                    (France)
    2006
                                                                                                                                            97E                                                          98E
           75E              90E            105E                                                                165E

