                                                                                                37732
                           PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                           APPRAISAL STAGE

 Project Name                      Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility
 Region                            East Asia and Pacific
 Sector                            Urban Development
 Project ID                        P101785
 Borrower(s)                       Government of Indonesia
 Implementing Agency               Bureau for Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for Aceh and Nias (BRR)
 Environment Category              [ ] A [X] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared                 10/11/06
 Date of Appraisal                 7/27/06
 Date of Board Approval            12/15/2006 (Expected date)

1. Country and Sector Background
The tsunami and earthquake that struck the Indian Ocean in December 2004 caused devastation on a
horrific scale. In Indonesia, the disaster killed or left missing more than 230,000 people, and destroyed
communities, infrastructure and livelihoods. The total reconstruction and development program for Aceh
and Nias is estimated to cost between US$6-9 billion1 (2005-2009), making it the largest reconstruction
program in the developing world. In addition to the physical damage, the disaster caused enormous
destruction to the economy and loss of institutional capacity. While it appears that peace may finally have
been achieved in Aceh between the government and the Free Aceh Movement, the neglect to
infrastructure and human development from thirty years of conflict adds to the reconstruction challenges.

Following the disaster, the immediate need was to put in place humanitarian and disaster relief programs;
these were widely supported and successfully implemented by local and national governments, as well as
numerous agencies, NGOs and individuals. The people of Indonesia and the international community
have since shifted from the initial emergency phase to the recovery phase. In April 2005, the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) created a dedicated Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Agency - Badan Rehabilitasi
dan Rekonstruksi (BRR) - to provide leadership and management across all aspects of recovery. Given the
magnitude of the losses suffered and the number of organizations currently involved in reconstruction
efforts, demands on the technical and coordination capacities of BRR as well as of local and provincial
governments are enormous. The first reconstruction priority was the provision of housing ­ this program
is well underway, with 45 percent of the overall rebuilding needs in progress. The second reconstruction
priority ­ which has made less progress ­ is to rebuild and restore essential infrastructure services, such as
transport, roads, macro and local level drainage, water supply and sanitation, power distribution, and solid
waste. Overarching these demands are the BRR's policy goals of rebuilding to improved standards (i.e.,
building back better), strengthening local governments, and working with communities.

Sector overview. As of March 2006, approximately US$4.7 billion had been allocated by GOI, NGOs
and donors (including MDF) to specific rehabilitation projects and an estimated additional US$3.7 billion
had been committed but had not been allocated to specific projects. Of this total of US$8.4 billion,
US$535 million comes from the MDF2. This total of US$8.4 billion appears sufficient given overall
funding needs to: (i) cover the original loss assessment across all sectors from the tsunami and earthquake
of US$4.9 billion; (ii) cover anticipated cost increases of US$ 1.2 billion resulting from inflation; and (iii)
build back better (US$2.3 billion) according to the GOI's stated objective. However, BRR, donors' and
NGOs' interests and focus have varied across sectors according to their comparative advantage and


1Aceh and Nias One Year After the Tsunami: The Recovery Effort and Way Forward, December 2005
2Aceh and Nias One Year After the Tsunami: The Recovery Effort and Way Forward, December 2005


                                                                                                             1

preference and this has resulted in some mismatch between available funds and financing needs.
Infrastructure, in particular, currently shows a deficit of available funds for reconstruction of about
US$650 million.

Having suffered the most damage, the housing and social sectors have received the greatest attention in
the post-tsunami reconstruction program in terms of the allocation of resources. The estimate of damage
to the housing sector was US$1.4 billion, with the demand for new houses now ranging from 93,000 to
120,0003. The housing program is moving rapidly (and generally in the absence of supporting
infrastructure) ­ by the end of June 2006, an estimated 35,000 houses have been completed, with up to
22,000 under construction. Ensuring quality of finished works and providing sufficient supporting
infrastructure are the key sector priorities.

Damage to infrastructure has been substantial and progress slow. To the extent that both physical
infrastructure and staffing were limited before the tsunami (for e.g., in the water and sanitation sector,
there were no sewerage systems and less than 30 percent of the population provided with piped water),
building back better will require substantially more investment than simply replacing what was lost.
Sectoral funding gaps resulting from a mismatch between available funds and financing needs further
strain reconstruction efforts. Lack of sufficient funding is particularly severe in the transport sector, and to
a lesser extent in flood control and irrigation. The funding deficit in the transport sector is a critical issue
as an efficient transport network is vital for the delivery of rehabilitation and reconstruction assistance
and for overall economic development.

The progress of spatial and infrastructure development planning is mixed. At the sub-district level,
numerous donors, NGOs, and the government have produced community mapping and development
plans but hardly any infrastructure planning. These efforts have succeeded in involving communities in
the planning process, articulating community priorities and vision, and creating the foundations for the
reestablishment of land rights. However, the early approaches were not standardized and quality varies.
Many community maps/village spatial plans were made before the release of post-tsunami aerial
photography, not developed on accurate base maps, and lack topographic details ­ thus limiting their
utility for implementation. At the district level, the availability of updated spatial and infrastructure
development plans is limited.

2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed Infrastructure Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) is to support the
BRR's strategy for district and provincial infrastructure reconstruction by providing high quality
consulting services in infrastructure program management, planning, design, and construction
management. To meet this challenge, the proposed technical assistance (TA) will: (i) assist the BBR in
the strategic planning, programming and implementation of infrastructure development and
reconstruction with a strategic Infrastructure Program Management (IPM) team; (ii) provide technical
support and capacity building for local government staff on identification, design, commencing
implementation, and monitoring of projects (including preparation of tender documents) in the West
Coast of Aceh, and in Nias; (iii) give support at the provincial/national level for planning, design and
implementation of strategic infrastructure projects not under the purview of local governments, such as
ports, roads, and airports, major storm and drainage systems; and (iv) provide financial management
advisory services to enable BRR to meet its fiduciary requirements.




3Permanent Housing Brief, February 16, 2006, UN-HABITAT.


                                                                                                              2

3. Rationale for Bank involvement

The BRR's approach of utilizing available resources from the MDF in the context of its overall
rehabilitation and reconstruction strategy will yield three distinct benefits: (i) MDF will provide an
additional and needed US$100 million to partially fill the infrastructure funding gaps that have emerged
as a result of the misallocation of resources4 among sectors and across local governments in Aceh and
Nias, as well as due to inflation; (ii) the US$100 million of MDF resources (of which US$82 million will
be allocated to financing infrastructure subprojects) will leverage US$191 million of BRR's monies to
ensure that the investments under preparation, benefiting from high quality technical assistance provided
by IREP, will indeed be financed; and (iii) MDF resources will be used to strengthen the sustainability of
infrastructure reconstruction and facilitate the continuation of infrastructure development beyond the end
of BRR's mandate in June 2009 by financing (a) subproject implementation till IRFF's scheduled closing
in June 2010; (b) the extension of TA provided by IREP to local and provincial governments beyond June
2009 to continue supporting the implementation and construction supervision of subprojects financed by
IRFF; and (c) TA activities specifically designed to facilitate the transition to the post-BRR era.

4. Project Description
Objectives. The objective of the Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility is to assist the province
of Aceh and 12 local governments in Aceh and Nias to reconstruct/rehabilitate strategic infrastructure and
extend key infrastructure services of adequate quality standards that meet the needs of communities where
infrastructure was damaged by the tsunami of 2004 and the subsequent earthquake. BRR has devised a
consultative planning process that considers local needs as well as the overall strategic priorities of the
reconstruction program to develop Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs) and Provincial
Government Annual Investment Plans (PGIPs) that contain a list of priority infrastructure subprojects to
be undertaken. BRR is already receiving technical assistance from MDF under IREP in the strategic
planning, programming and implementation of infrastructure development and reconstruction. The
proposed IRFF will finance a subset of individual subprojects in the LGIPs and PGIPs totaling US$273
million by utilizing $82 million of MDF resources and $191 million of BRR's funds. In order to provide
adequate time to complete IRFF-financed subprojects by the scheduled completion date of January 2010,
BRR plans to complete the allocation of US$273 million to approved IRFF subprojects by April 30, 2008.
In addition, MDF resources will be used to strengthen the sustainability of infrastructure reconstruction as
mentioned above.

Project components. The proposed IRFF, co-financed by MDF and BRR, consists of two main
components that will be implemented over the January 2007 ­ January 2010 period.

Component 1 - Financing of Infrastructure Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Investments
(US$273.0 million) will finance individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local
governments ­ 95 of which are benefiting from IREP TA, and 36 of which are receiving technical advice
from existing consulting arrangements, as well as strategic investments at the provincial level. Each
individual infrastructure subproject will be co-financed by BRR and MDF, according to a 70:30 ratio.


4The mismatch between available funds and financing needs has arisen somewhat inadvertently as a result of donors
and NGOs contributing resources to specific activities they see themselves best suited to deliver. Although BRR
coordinates the post-tsunami recovery and reconstruction program, its ability to address the funding mismatch across
sectors by reallocating resources is limited given that the activities that it coordinates would themselves need to
reflect donors' and NGOs' preferences. I.e., donors would not like to see their contributions finance activities in a
sector outside their area of expertise.
5Aceh Jaya, Aceh Barat, Nagan Raya, Aceh Barat Deya, Aceh Selatan, Aceh Singkil, and Simeulue in the West
Coast and Nias and Nias Selatan in Nias.
6Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, and Sabang.


                                                                                                                   3

This component will provide resources for civil works and installed equipment in subprojects in the
following sectors: roads, ports, water and sanitation, drainage, flood control, coastal protection and
restoration of major irrigation canals.

Component 2 ­ Targeted Support to Infrastructure Subproject Planning, Design, Supervision, and
Implementation Oversight (US$3.0 million) will provide TA (i) to Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and
Sabang that are currently receiving TA from existing consulting arrangements for subproject
identification and design (till January 2007) for the period January 2007 to January 2010 (US$2 million).
This component aims at strengthening the ability of the Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang local
governments to improve the provision of infrastructure in their respective jurisdictions by providing
technical experts to assist them in planning and subproject identification, subproject design, tender
documents, procurement, safeguards compliance, implementation, construction supervision, and
monitoring; (ii) to support performance and financial audit (over and above external audit) of the project
financial statements (US$0.6 million); and (iii) to provide technical assistance for transition to a post-
BRR timeframe and institutional arrangements beyond June 2009, including extension of TA provided
under IREP, and capacity building and infrastructure asset maintenance programs for local and provincial
governments (US$0.4 million).

Unallocated funds (US$15.0 million). In order to mitigate uncertainty in the implementation of this
project, a portion of the project funds is not allocated to any specific component. These unallocated
resources may be used for one or more of the following: (i) extending IREP TA (a) beyond June 2009 to
continue supporting the implementation, construction supervision and performance monitoring of
subprojects financed by IRFF, and (b) to support BRR's mandate of supervision, performance monitoring
and quality assurance of the infrastructure reconstruction program; (ii) financing TA activities necessary
to help local and provincial governments prepare for the transition to a post-BRR era by undertaking
greater responsibility of infrastructure program management based on the IREP-financed BRR transition
strategy, detailing institutional arrangements beyond the scheduled expiration of BRR's mandate agreed
by GOI and the Bank by June 2008, and regional economic development strategy7; and (iii) financing
additional subprojects in the event the implementation of all subprojects proceeds as planned.

5. Financing
IRFF will fund, among other things, individual infrastructure subprojects, each of which will be co-
financed by BRR and MDF according to a 70:30 ratio starting on January 1, 2007. IRFF is therefore
being processed under an accelerated schedule to ensure that project implementation can start before
November 2006 when BRR's 2007 budget needs to be finalized and approved by Parliament.

The estimated costs of financing infrastructure subprojects and funding the technical assistance discussed
above are displayed in the table below. The Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility (IRFF) will
combine US$100 million of MDF and US$191 million of BRR resources to finance individual
infrastructure subprojects in 12 local governments of Aceh and Nias, provide targeted support to
infrastructure subproject planning, design, supervision and implementation oversight, and set aside
US$15 million currently unallocated to specific project activities. The table below assumes that US$273


7IREP will finance a regional economic development strategy for Aceh and Nias to re-orient infrastructure policy
from infrastructure reconstruction to rehabilitation of livelihoods and sustained economic growth by conceptualizing
Aceh's long term development needs and identifying the strategic priorities to address them. This economic
development strategy will inform the transition strategy being prepared by BRR (supported by IREP) that will
articulate the actions to be taken to help local governments prepare for a post-BRR environment, including capacity
building programs for local and provincial governments, maintenance by local governments of BRR-financed
infrastructure assets, institutional arrangements for the post-BRR period, and potential support of the international
development community to infrastructure development for the post-BRR period.


                                                                                                                   4

million (of the total project cost of US$291 million) will be used to fund infrastructure subprojects by
combining US$82 million of MDF and US$191 million of BRR resources in a co-financing ratio of
30:70.

                                     IRFF Costs and Proposed Sources of Funding

                           Component                         MDF         BRR Co-        Local Gov't
                                                            Request      financing     Co-financing
                                                            US$m           US$m            US$m
     1. Financing of Infrastructure Reconstruction and       82.0          191.0      Local support
     Rehabilitation Investments                                                       costs
     2. Targeted Support to Infrastructure Subproject         3.0     Local support   Local support
     Planning, Design, Supervision, and Implementation                costs           costs
     Oversight
     (i) TA support to Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang
     (ii) Transition to post-BRR timeframe
     (iii) Performance and financial audit (over and above
     external audit) of project financial statements
     Unallocated                                             15.0
                                                      Total  100.0         191.0

6. Implementation
Institutional support to infrastructure reconstruction. IRFF will use the management structure set up
for IREP. The Project Management Unit (PMU) established under IREP will be responsible for managing
IRFF. BRR has appointed the Deputy of Infrastructure as Head of the PMU. Located in the PMU is the
IREP Secretariat, responsible for daily work to support the functions of the PMU. A full-time Chief of the
PMU Secretariat has been appointed to administer the Secretariat work program and staff. BRR will be
responsible for equipping the Secretariat with qualified staff. The PMU reports to the Chief Operating
Officer (COO) of BRR.

At the BRR level, the progress of the project will be monitored by the BRR Infrastructure Board (IB),
which is comprised of the Chief Operating Officer and the Deputies of Infrastructure, Housing, Finance
and Planning, and Institutional Development. The IB will provide overall guidance related to donor and
sectoral coordination, and monitor progress of the reconstruction program.

Joint Secretariats comprising representatives from local governments and from decentralized BRR offices
will be established in each of the 12 districts covered by the project. The Joint Secretariats, assisted by
IREP consultants, will facilitate a mechanism of coordination and consultation among multiple
stakeholders, including the local governments, BRR, and NGOs. Discussions at the Joint Secretariats will
be aimed at guiding the local/provincial planning process, formulating Local Government Annual
Investment Plans (LGIPs) and Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans (PGIPs), and identifying
individual subprojects therein to be co-financed by IRFF using BRR/MDF resources.

Planning and implementation of infrastructure reconstruction subprojects. IRFF will finance
individual infrastructure reconstruction subprojects in 12 local governments as well as strategic
investments at the provincial level. Local and provincial governments, with support from BRR and IREP
consultants will prepare Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs), and Provincial
Government Annual Investment Plans (PGIPs). IRFF will fund some of the infrastructure subprojects
contained in the LGIPs and PGIPs. To avoid delays in making progress on the 2007 investment plan,
IREP-financed IPM consultants will review the projects already under preparation by BRR and other
donors and identify subprojects for IRFF financing. All subprojects financed by IRFF will be required to



                                                                                                         5

meet eligibility criteria based on sector and geographic location, technical, economic and financial
requirements, and environmental safeguards.

Preparation and review of the Local and Provincial Government Annual Investment Plans. The proposed
project aims to finance key local investments embedded in strategic local development investment plans
prepared by local governments with the assistance of IREP-financed consultants. Local governments will
work with the Joint Secretariats and IREP-financed consultants to prepare a Local Government Annual
Investment Plan (LGIP) and Provincial Government Annual Investment Plan (PGIP) in which prioritized
local investment needs will be grounded. Once finalized, the Joint Secretariat and local government will
send the LGIPs and PGIPs to the BRR PMU, through BRR's regional office, for discussion and
confirmation of BRR's potential commitment to finance specific subprojects with IRFF funds in line with
regional priorities. The BRR PMU will share the list of confirmed subprojects with the Bank every
quarter as part of the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) along with analyses justifying their confirmation.
As part of the IFR review process, BRR PMU and the Bank will agree on a procurement plan for the
forthcoming quarter that will contain details of confirmed subprojects and an explanation of their
inclusion in IRFF.

Preparation and approval of individual subprojects. All confirmed subprojects will be notified to the
local governments. Local governments, with the assistance of the IREP-financed consultants working at
the district level, will be responsible for detailed subproject preparation, including preliminary design,
analysis of alternatives, conducting feasibility studies (including required environmental and social
studies), followed by detailed design and bidding documents8. Final subproject designs and tender
documents will be submitted to the BRR PMU for review and tendering. Once received by the BRR PMU
for final clearance and procurement, subprojects will be reviewed to ensure that they meet the technical,
economic, financial, environmental and safeguards compliance criteria developed at the outset of the
project.

Subproject implementation. It is expected that subprojects of approximately US$150 million will be
allocated during each of the 2007 and 2008 BRR budget cycles. Satkers will be responsible for
implementing individual subprojects and overseeing contractors with the support of IREP supervision
consultants. These satkers, traditionally work-groups established within an appointed line-ministry, are
now organized by activities and sub-activities. Currently, satkers function as work-groups to manage the
implementation of a project or program. In 2007, these stakers will be nominated by local governments
and appointed by BRR. In later years, it is expected that satkers will be nominated and appointed by local
governments. Consultant teams will work alongside satkers to assist in the procurement, implementation
and supervision of infrastructure reconstruction. Satkers will also be assisted by IREP consultants to
manage the flow of subproject funds. In particular, the IREP supervision consultant will apprise the
stakers of the progress made by contractors, and put his/her signatures on the contractor's invoice on the
basis of which satkers will initiate payment.

IRFF project financing and disbursement procedures. BRR and KPPN (Regional Treasury Office)
have established a very effective means of disbursing satker investment funds to contractors, other
suppliers, and to satkers to cover day-to-day operating expenses. The project will establish a
Designated/Special Account (DA), and the KPPN will draw funds from the special account to meet
project commitments as required. BRR and MDF will contribute to each subproject financed by IRFF
according to a co-financing ratio of 70:30. KPPN will draw 30% of each claim's funding requirements
from the Special Account and 70% from the BRR's approved budget (DIPA) resources.


8Environmental studies (AMDAL, UKL/UPL) will be carried out in such a way as to inform the completed detailed
designs. Therefore environmental mitigation should be integrated, as necessary, into finalized technical drawings
and in the bill of quantities.


                                                                                                               6

As subprojects come on stream, contractors will be paid 20 percent of the contract price (as stipulated in
the contract) directly into their designated account on signing the contract. The advance will be secured
by a bank guarantee as stipulated in the contract. To process the balance of the payments, the contractor
will submit invoices, along with supporting documents, to the satker according to payment provisions
included in the contract. The invoices submitted will be verified by, and bear the signatures of, the
IREP/IRFF supervision consultant. Verification by IREP/IRFF supervision consultant will require his/her
review and confirmation that the physical progress of works is in accordance with the contract and with
the contractor's invoice. The BRR satker will not process invoices that do not have the IREP/IRFF
supervision consultant's signatures attesting to his/her verification of the invoice. Satkers will review the
claim and confirm that it is in accordance with the contract, that supporting documents are complete, and
that the claim is in accordance with the approved satker budget. When all documentation is complete the
satker will prepare an SPM-LS, which will be signed and stamped by both the satker manager and the
IREP/IRFF supervision consultant. The SPM-LS will then be forwarded by the satker to KPPN for
processing and direct payment to the contractor's bank account less any retention for guarantees or
advances provided for in the contract and for any taxation obligations. After checking that all supporting
documents are in order and that the claim has been correctly authorized by both the satker and IREP/IRFF
supervision consultant, KPPN will draw payment from the satker budget held by treasury and special
account according to the agreed apportionment and pay this directly to the contractor's specified account.

7. Sustainability
Rebuilding infrastructure in Aceh and Nias so as to reverse the destruction caused by the tsunami,
compensate for the under-development caused by years of political strife and unlock the medium to long
term development potential of the province is a task of enormous magnitude. The risk that the efforts now
underway might prove unsustainable is substantial. Compounding this risk is the expiration of BRR's
mandate scheduled for June 2009, beyond which local and provincial governments will need to undertake
greater responsibility for infrastructure reconstruction program management. BRR's exit in June 2009 and
the need for new institutional arrangements to facilitate continued progress in infrastructure
reconstruction require a well conceived transition strategy to prepare local and provincial governments for
the post-BRR period. A number of steps in the context of both the IREP and the IRFF are being
undertaken to ensure the sustainability of the reconstruction program for Aceh and Nias and to facilitate
the transition of local and provincial governments beyond BRR's mandate. Each of these is briefly
discussed below.

Technical assistance. Both IREP and IRFF include TA components that emphasize hands-on training of
local government technical departments as well as of BRR staff. Such TA is an important tool that will
contribute to ensure the quality of infrastructure subprojects undertaken during BRR's mandate and to
prepare local authorities for the post-BRR era. These capacity building efforts will cover all aspects of
subproject selection and implementation, including subproject selection, preparing detailed design and
tender documents safeguards compliance, procurement, subproject supervision, anti-corruption measures
and infrastructure asset maintenance.

Ownership. Steps will be taken to ensure that local governments develop a sense of ownership with
respect to the infrastructure assets financed by BRR. For example, infrastructure investment plans that
include subprojects to be financed by BRR/MDF resources as well as by local governments and other
agencies will be developed through the Joint Secretariats by the local government themselves with
support from BRR staff and in coordination with other relevant stakeholders. Once subprojects are
selected and approved by BRR central for funding by BRR/MDF, project teams will be formed at the
local government level to start subproject preparation. The key members of these project teams ­ in
particular the satkers who manage subprojects ­ will generally be local government staff. In addition,
BRR will undertake, with the help of IREP consultants, an assessment of local governments' capacity


                                                                                                           7

with a view to progressively transfer implementation responsibilities, including procurement and financial
management, to those local governments able to carry out such responsibilities. The capacity building
measures mentioned above are designed to enable transferring increasing levels of responsibilities to local
governments over time.

Building institutional capacity. The overall incentive framework under which local government officials
operate in the context of IRFF is geared toward building lasting institutional capacity. For example,
making IRFF resources available to finance well prepared local infrastructure subprojects is expected to
prompt local governments to improve their ability to select and prepare such subprojects so as to gain
access to IRFF financing. In addition, a transition strategy ­ to be developed with the help of IREP
consultants to help local governments prepare for the post-BRR period ­ will propose institutional
mechanisms aimed at facilitating exchanges of experience between all Aceh and Nias local governments
involved in infrastructure reconstruction and development.

Post-BRR arrangements. The capacity building measures described above are designed to help local
governments work together with BRR to select, design and implement high quality infrastructure
subprojects, and will help local governments implement infrastructure development programs on their
own after the end of BRR's mandate. Additional measures are specifically designed to ease the transition
to the post-BRR period. For example, BRR with support from IREP consultants will develop institutional
mechanisms, by June 2008 at the latest, for the post June 2009 period when its mandate is scheduled to
expire. In addition, unallocated funds under IRFF are currently held in reserve to be used, for example, to
extend the TA carried out under IREP beyond June 2009 if it proves desirable.

8. Lessons Learned from Past Operations
According to the December 2005 report Aceh and Nias One Year After the Tsunami: The Recovery Effort
and Way Forward, and from experiences implementing projects during earlier phases of the BRR
Infrastructure Reconstruction Strategy, several pertinent lessons have been learned by those working to
facilitate the recovery process. The design of the project takes into account the following:

    · The need to balance local level planning and overall reconstruction needs. One the one hand it is
         critical to design a subproject planning process originating at the decentralized, local level so that
         the investments financed respond to community needs and local government planning capacity is
         strengthened. Yet, to ensure coordination and efficient management of available resources, it is
         essential that infrastructure subprojects reflect the overall reconstruction needs and priorities
         outlined in the BRR infrastructure development strategy. This balance is achieved by requiring
         that IRFF-financed subprojects (i) be selected by local governments through a consultative
         process described in section IV below; and (ii) be confirmed by BRR.
    · The importance of speedy reconstruction while upholding the quality of construction. The
         magnitude of infrastructure service disruption to communities in Aceh and Nias calls for quick
         implementation and completion of high quality reconstruction operations. IRFF addresses the
         need for speed and quality in reconstruction by utilizing high quality expertise through IPM/IREP
         consultants who will support BRR and local/provincial governments to deliver infrastructure
         subprojects on an accelerated basis.
    · The need for local ownership of reconstruction efforts. It is critical to ensure that local
         governments develop a sense of ownership with respect to the infrastructure subprojects financed
         by BRR so that they devote financial and technical resources to keep building and maintaining
         these infrastructure assets. IRFF addresses this issue in several ways. For instance, LGIPs and
         PGIPs, which include investments to be financed by BRR as well as by local governments and
         other stakeholders, will be developed by the local government themselves with support from BRR
         staff and IREP consultants. Further, project managers (or satkers) for BRR-financed projects will
         be designated by local governments and will generally be local government employees. In


                                                                                                             8

        addition, all local infrastructure assets financed by BRR will legally belong to the respective
        local/provincial governments.
    · The need for transition of overall infrastructure reconstruction management from BRR to local
        and provincial governments so as to sustain reconstruction activity beyond the duration of BRR's
        mandate in June 2009. Local and provincial government capacity in Aceh and Nias had been
        compromised over years of political strife and the tsunami further reduced government capacity.
        Cognizant of the risk that infrastructure reconstruction may breakdown in the absence of BRR
        post-June 2009, IRFF has built-in mitigating measures. BRR will undertake, with the help of
        IREP consultants, an assessment of local governments' capacity with a view to progressively
        transferring implementation responsibilities to local/provincial governments; IRFF will finance
        TA to support local governments' capacity enhancement, if needed. Further, IREP will assist the
        BRR/GOI to design institutional mechanisms detailed in a transition strategy, by June 2008 at the
        latest, to ensure that Government bodies are able to keep meeting the obligations of BRR beyond
        the scheduled expiration of its mandate in June 2009. IRFF will finance additional TA, as and
        when needed, to help local and provincial governments transition to the new post-BRR
        institutional arrangements.

9. Safeguard Policies
Safeguard policies triggered by this project include environmental assessment, involuntary resettlement,
and Indigenous Peoples. These policies are triggered by virtue of the fact that, taken together, IREP/IRFF
will design and finance a range of infrastructure subprojects, and will therefore have had to consider a full
range of safeguards issues as part of subproject preparation and detailed design. The environmental and
social safeguards framework provides general policies and guidelines to serve the following objectives:
    · Protect human health;
    · Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments or their cumulative
        effects;
    · Enhance positive environmental outcomes;
    · Avoid or minimize land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, and where this can not be
        avoided, provide compensation at replacement value and assistance to rehabilitate livelihoods
        based on consultation with those affected;
    · Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen community social cohesiveness.

The safeguard policies triggered include OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement and OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples.

     Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                    Yes                No
     Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                       [x]                [ ]
     Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  [ ]                [x]
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      [ ]                [x]
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)        [ ]                [x]
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          [x]                [ ]
     Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10)                                   [x]                []
     Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                           []                 [x]
     Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    [ ]                [x]
     Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                     [ ]                [x]
     Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)            [ ]                [x]




                                                                                                           9

10. Contact point
       Aniruddha Dasgupta
       Lead Urban Planner
       The World Bank
       1818 H. St. NW
       Washington, DC 20433
       adasgupta@worldbank.org

11. For more information contact:
       The InfoShop
       The World Bank
       1818 H Street, NW
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       Telephone: (202) 458-5454
       Fax: (202) 522-1500
       Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




                                                 10

