Page  1
1
E
NVIRONMENTAL AND 
S
OCIAL 
S
AFEGUARDS 
F
RAMEWORK
 
A. Introduction 
 
This safeguards framework covers two inter-related elements of Multi Donor Fund (MDF) 
support being provided to the Aceh and Nias Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency’s (BRR) 
Strategy for district and province infrastructure reconstruction, namely: the Infrastructure 
Reconstruction Enabling Program (IREP) and Infrastructure Reconstruction Financing Facility 
(IRFF). The IREP provides world class consulting services in infrastructure program 
management, planning, design, and construction management. The IRFF provides further 
complementary TA to IREP as well financial resources to fill the financing gap in infrastructure 
reconstruction that has emerged as a result of inefficient allocation of resources for Aceh and 
Nias. Taken together these two projects will provide strategic planning, detailed engineering 
design and construction supervision support, as well as US$273 million in subproject financing.   
 
Given that both IREP and IRFF will be implemented by the same PMU and IPM team, it is 
logical that a single safeguards framework is developed covering both grant agreements. 
Accordingly, this safeguards framework is based on and replaces the framework already 
prepared, appraised and negotiated under IREP.  It remains the same in intent and substance 
providing further clarifications only in terms of funding mechanisms and arrangements.  It also 
takes account of the increased scope of support for infrastructure reconstruction being provided 
under IRFF to include: three new districts, including Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang; as 
well as eligibility for IRFF financing of a number of strategic province level and other 
subprojects prepared by other donor agencies/organizations
1
.
B. 
Objectives of the Framework 
 
The environmental and social safeguards framework provides general policies and guidelines to 
serve the following objectives: 
 
·
Protect human health; 
·
Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments or their 
cumulative effects; 
·
Enhance positive environmental outcomes; 
·
Avoid or minimize land acquisition and involuntary resettlement, and where this can not 
be avoided, provide compensation based on market price and assistance to rehabilitate 
livelihoods based on consultation with those affected; 
·
Avoid conflict among community members and strengthen community social 
cohesiveness. 
 
Mechanisms for implementation of the framework are built in to the project oversight structures, 
guidelines and tools, as well as the terms of reference for the proposed Infrastructure Progam 
Management (IPM) team, and associated geographically focused teams (West Coast, Nias, Aceh 
Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang and Province level). 
 
It will be the responsibility of the IPM team to support the BRR in developing detailed social and 
environmental management procedures for this framework, to be integrated into the Project 
1
UNDP (Ports) and DHV (Sea Defences). 
SR7 
November 13, 2006 
Page  2
2
Implementation Plan (PIP). The safeguard policies triggered include OP 4.01 on Environmental 
Assessment, OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement and OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples.  
 
Safeguard Policies 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
[x] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) 
[x] 
[] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [] 
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60) [ 
] 
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[x] 
C.  
Environmental and Social Issues  
 
Environmental Issues. T
he IREP/IRFF project entail the procurement of ‘services’ to support 
infrastructure reconstruction which will have the effect of programming significant levels 
financing both from the BRR’s own budget and additional financing made available through the 
Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias. Consequently, the consultant teams that will be engaged 
under the project will need to have a good understanding of related environmental and social 
impacts and how such impacts can mitigated via appropriate planning, design, and 
implementation measures.
 
Assessment of the impacts of infrastructure reconstruction first needs to be set within the context 
of existing environmental conditions, particularly along the West Coast and in Nias. It is 
important to understand, for example, that reconstruction will be impacting on already stressed 
environmental conditions.  Many coastal areas have been severely damaged by the tsunami both 
in terms of marine and terrestrial environments.  In many places coastlines have been physically 
altered, particularly the inter-tidal zones.  Shallow coral reefs have been affected resulting from 
the large amounts of solid waste, silts and clays generated by the waves.  Mud laden residues 
have infiltrated both man made and natural water sources, and blocked drainage lines.  Many of 
the heavy clay soils that predominate in the coastal region have been inundated with salt water.  
In Nias large tracts of coastal land have been lifted up and an estimated 250 ha of coral reefs are 
reported to have been destroyed. With the loss of sea defenses previously built up areas have been 
reclaimed by the tides leading to coastal inundation and the recreation of marshy areas juxtaposed 
with human settlement. 
 
Furthermore it should be recognized that existing conditions are being further impacted by the 
reconstruction process that has been underway since early 2005 – now increasing in scope and 
intensity. As indicated in the initial drafts of on-going SEA work carried out by Bappenas, 
existing critical pressure points include:  
 
·
impacts of housing construction through extraction of raw materials including wood, 
sand, coral and clay, leading to multiple effects on surface water features, coastal 
geomorphology, protected areas and watershed protection areas; 
Page  3
3
·
impacts of housing construction overwhelming capacity of water and sanitation services 
to keep up with demand; 
·
spill over waste from existing dump sites and establishment of new sites without due 
consideration of externalities; 
·
relaxation of environmental controls and building standards associated with road 
construction, leading to ponding, landslides and other localized construction type 
impacts; 
·
urgent needs of livelihood recovery leading to overexploitation for sea and pond-based 
aquaculture; 
·
illegal logging achieving social legitimacy in the interests of rapid reconstruction, while 
actually targeting markets outside of Aceh; 
·
social conflict over land expropriation (housing, road reconstruction, mangrove 
reforestation) with insufficient compensation and due process.  
 
Consequently infrastructure reconstruction, along with ensuing environmental impacts, takes its 
place among many other efforts underway all of which will leave their mark on the natural 
systems that must also sustain the future economic growth of the region.  
 
Social Issues. 
In general the infrastructure subprojects that will be designed and implemented 
with support from IREP/IRFF will entail replacement of pre-existing infrastructure.  As a result, 
the level of associated social risks is likely to be limited. However, it is important for planning 
processes, including prioritization of infrastructure needs, to reflect community needs and 
specifically those of vulnerable groups (such as women and the poorest in society).  
 
In some cases land acquisition and resettlement will be unavoidable leading to a range of 
challenges associated with clarifying land titles and ensuring that adequate and timely 
compensation is provided.  Thousands of people still remain missing after the tsunami while 
others still live in the camps/barracks or have moved to other regions.  Although most intend to 
return to their holdings, the timing varies. Therefore in many cases landowners are not available 
to discuss land acquisition issues leading to project delays or later conflicts during project 
implementation relating to disputed land claims. 
 
A
further challenge is in dealing with the tenure rights defined under the customary and 
traditional codes, particularly in Nias which is dominated by traditional tenure systems.  For 
example traditional codes do not clearly define rights for women to inherit land, and a challenge 
may be how to ensure that female heads of households retain rights to receive compensation that 
is due. 
 
Ensuring that infrastructure reconstruction addresses the particular needs of women remains a 
critical issue for consideration.  Women were the most directly affected group by the tsunami and 
earthquake, while at the same time having critical roles to play both in the immediate challenges 
of physical reconstruction and in ensuring sustainable and equitable social and economic recovery 
in the longer term.  Strategic planning work undertaken under IREP will need to ensure that the 
specific concerns of women in relation to infrastructure reconstruction are taken account of, while 
at the subproject level related public consultation will need to ensure that women are given a 
strong voice in choices to be made over siting and design, as well as the relative prioritization of 
subprojects to be funded under each district management plan. For example, under certain 
circumstances, water supply and sanitation may be considered to be a greater priority than road 
rehabilitation.  
 
Page  4
4
Although the people of Aceh are a broadly homogeneous group, there are indigenous people 
living in Nias requiring specific measures to be undertaken by the project to ensure that they are 
meaningfully engaged in consultation processes associated with the planning, design and 
construction of proposed infrastructure.   
 
D. 
Environmental and Social Management Framework  
 
Screening. 
The Government of Indonesia’s environmental review procedures, which include 
specific procedures for Aceh and Nias
2
,
are broadly consistent with those of the World Bank, and 
will form the framework for the project’s approach to environmental screening and mitigation.  
IRFF is considered to be equivalent to World Bank “Category A”, recognizing that while it will 
largely involve reconstruction of pre-existing infrastructure, with average subproject size of about 
US$3-5 million, there could be subprojects that warrant a stricter environmental rating.  
Subprojects being prepared, designed and implemented under IREP/IRFF (including any 
subprojects not prepared under IREP but submitted to IRFF) will be subject to eligibility criteria 
at subproject identification stage (to be developed by BRR) and further screening  during 
subproject preparation  as follows: 
 
-
full environmental assessment (AMDAL) required; 
-
environmental management and monitoring plan (UKL/UPL) required;  
-
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan (LARAP) required; 
-
standard operating procedures (SOP) only. 
 
All subprojects (being funded by IRFF) will be required to complete a standardized screening 
form providing basic information, according to infrastructure sub-sector (roads, irrigation, 
drainage, coastal defenses, etc.)
3
.
Table 1 provides screening criteria for infrastructure subprojects 
(generally for new alignments/land take) that will require full environmental assessment, drawn 
from Decree 308/2005.  Table 1 provides a selection of criteria only.  In applying the framework 
the relevant annex to the Decree should be referred to directly.  The criteria represent ‘maximum’ 
thresholds only (for example 2000 ha for a new irrigated area). 
 
Full AMDALs may be required for subprojects even if they are within the maximum thresholds, 
based on a technical discussion between the IPM team and local environmental authorities (for 
example a new irrigated area of 500 ha). The WBOJ safeguards staff will review screening 
decisions for all subprojects and may require additional full AMDALs to be carried out as 
appropriate. 
 
2
Ministry of Environment Decree No. 308/2005 on Implementation of Environmental Impact Assessment, 
Environmental Management Measures and Environmental Controlling Measures for Rehabilitation and 
Reconstruction Activities of Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam and Nias Islands of North Sumatra. 
3
GTZ is in process of preparing standard screening formats for discussion with Province Bapedalda.  The 
project will review these formats as a basis for preparing appropriate internal screening procedures.  
Page  5
5
Table 1: Selected Screening Criteria for Infrastructure SubProjects Requiring AMDAL 
Transportation Sector 
Harbor construction with one of the following facility  
a. massive 
construction 
jetty 
-
Length 
-
Or area 
 
b.    Harbor Infrastructure support (terminal, storage, container, 
etc.) 
 
-
area
 
 
200 m
 
 
6.000 m
2
 
5
ha
Dredging : 
Capital dredging 
 
-
Volume
 
 
250.000 m
³
Reclamation 
-
Area 
-
Or volume 
 
 
25 ha
 
 
500.000 m
3
Infrastructure in the Region 
Irrigation area 
a. New construction area 
 
b. Intensifying by adding area 
 
 
2.000 ha 
 
 
1.000 ha 
 
Swampy area development, marsh land reclamation for irrigation 
needs 
 
1.000 ha 
a. Highway construction 
 
b. Flyover and subway road construction 
 
All units 
 
 
2
km 
Road construction and/or improvement by widening out side of 
a. Big 
city/metropolis 
b. Length 
c. Or 
area 
 
b. Middle 
city 
d. Length 
e. Or 
area 
 
c. Village 
 
-
Length 
 
 
5
km 
 
5
ha
 
10 km 
 
10 ha 
 
 
15 km 
Trash handling 
a.  Trash handling by control  
 
sanitary landfill systems 
f. Area 
g. Or 
total 
capacity 
b. Last trash Discarding  
 
Location (TPA) at tide   
 
 
10 ha 
 
10.000 ton
 
Page  6
6
area 
h. landfill 
area 
i. Or 
total 
capacity 
c. Transfer station    
 
construction 
j. Capacity 
d. Open dumping Last Trash   
 
Discarding systems 
 
-
Area or total capacity 
 
 
5
ha
 
5.000 ton
 
 
1000 ton/day
 
All units 
The requirement for an AMDAL may also be triggered if a subproject is likely to impact on 
sensitive sites either by being located in close proximity to a sensitive site, or if the nature of the 
subproject activity could directly impact on a sensitive site. Key sites or areas that will be 
considered ‘sensitive’ under this framework include: 
 
o
National park 
o
Forest park 
o
Wildlife reserve 
o
Protected flora area 
o
Conservation forest 
o
Watershed protection forest 
o
National cultural preserve 
o
Traditional/religious buildings 
o
Marine reserves 
o
Coastline and dune systems 
o
Mangrove and wetland areas 
o
Isolated Vulnerable People (IVP) 
o
Steep slopes (>40%) 
o
Commercial/residential areas 
o
Productive land  
o
Other areas as identified by BRR during the course of implementation. 
 
Under Decree 308/2005 there are no criteria in place for determining whether a UKL/UPL in 
required.  The general approach is that for all but very low impact subprojects a UKL/UPL is 
required.  A clear procedure for determining the need for UKL/UPL will be negotiated with 
Provincial Bapedalda during the early stages of the subproject. All subprojects, irrespective of 
whether an EA is required or not, will apply standard operating procedures for environmental 
management covering basic (commonly occurring) construction and operation type impacts.  
 
Screening process. 
IREP/IRFF will provide consulting services to seven districts along the West 
Coast of Aceh, two districts in Nias, Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang and the Province of Aceh.  
Consulting support teams located in these areas will help local governments to prepare draft 
Local Government Annual Investment Plans (LGIPs) and Provincial Government Annual 
Investment Plans (PGIPs) containing lists of subprojects, each having taken into account BRR 
eligibility criteria covering technical, economic, financial, social and environmental issues. 
Eligibility criteria will be prepared with support from the IPM team.  Environmental and social 
criteria will be designed to help local governments to screen out high risk subprojects at an early 
stage, based on the outputs of the environmental orientation study (see below). For example 
subprojects will not be deemed eligible if they likely to: significantly impact on environmentally 
or culturally sensitive sites; result in inter-basin transfer of water resources; significantly alter 
Page  7
7
coastal zone morphology and processes; result in large scale land-clearance; use or emit toxic 
and/or hazardous wastes; or result in large-scale resettlement.  
 
LGIPs will be discussed at the district level through the consultative mechanism facilitated by 
Joint Secretariats chaired by local Bappeda and comprising representatives from local 
government, BRR, and local stakeholders. These discussions will yield a list of candidate 
subprojects for funding under IRFF based on BRR eligibility criteria. These LGIPs will be 
submitted by district BRR offices to the BRR/IPM team for approval for IRFF financing. The 
final list of subprojects will be shared with the Bank for its review and statement of no objection. 
A
similar procedure will be applied at the Provincial level, assisted by a Province level Joint 
Secretariat.  
 
A
further window (or pipeline) will be provided at the Province level for selected ‘strategic’ 
subprojects prepared by other donor agencies for funding under IRFF.  Some subprojects from 
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh and Sabang may also have been ‘pre-prepared’ by other organizations
4
.
Such subprojects will only be considered ‘ready’ for IRFF funding if required social and 
environmental screening and review has been completed.  It is the responsibility of relevant donor 
agencies to ensure that social and environmental screening and review is satisfactorily completed.  
 
Local and Provincial Governments, with support of IREP and IRFF consultants will then prepare 
the selected subprojects for IRFF funding.  Environmental and social screening of ‘approved’ 
subprojects will be carried out at this point in order to determine if a LARAP, AMDAL or 
UKL/UPL is required.  Screening will be based on completion in advance by local governments 
of a standard screening format for each subproject, to be developed by the IPM team based on 
KepMen 308/2005
5
.
Based on this information, the BRR/IPM team will screen each subproject to be funded by IRFF 
involving: (i) comparison of subproject information against Annex 1 of Decree 308/2005, (ii) 
assessment of likelihood of impact on sensitive sites, (iii) comparison against World Bank criteria 
for LARAP.  Further information will be requested of the respective local government, as 
necessary, in order to complete screening.  A representative from the relevant local environmental 
authority will be invited participate in the screening process. Screening results will be formally 
communicated to the respective local governments, to the relevant local environmental authority 
and to WBOJ safeguards staff. 
 
Environmental and social studies. 
 The IPM team will be responsible for engaging additional 
and specialist consulting support to prepare all required social and environmental studies 
(AMDAL, UKL/UPL, and LARAP).  The IPM team will award and oversee implementation of 
an annual renewable contract to a firm(s) with a proven track record in carrying environmental 
and social assessments to GOI and World Bank standards.  While such firms are most likely to be 
found in Java, they will be encouraged to establish partnerships with local organizations (NGOs 
and academic institutions) to carry out field research functions. The selected Consultant (or 
consortium) will carry out environmental and social studies at the request of the IPM team, on the 
basis of a request for assistance received from respective local governments for subprojects that 
have been approved for IRFF funding.  
 
4
Sogreah is currently providing technical assistance in project preparation for these three districts.  
5
GTZ is providing assistance to Provincial Bapedalda in preparing screening formats in four sub-sectors.  
The IPM team will assess the validity of these formats. 
Page  8
8
It is expected that approximately 10-15% of a total of approximately 80 subprojects prepared 
under IREP/IRFF will require AMDAL and/or LARAP, and that a further 40-50% will require 
UKL/UPL and/or abbreviated LARAP.  The resulting cost estimation is presented in Table 2, 
requiring approximately $1.0 million to cover costs of the studies (not including costs of 
compensation).  Should this figure prove to be insufficient (for example if there should be a 
significant increase in the volume of funds available in the IRFF), additional resources for studies 
will be made available as part of the financing to be provided under the IRFF. 
 
Table 2: Cost estimation for required environmental and social studies ($ 000) 
Type Unit 
cost 
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Total No.
Total cost 
AMDAL 
40-50 0 5 3 8 320-400 
UKL/UPL 5-7 
10 
15 
15 
40 
200-280 
Full LARAP 
10-15 
1 
5 
2 
8 
80-120 
Abbrv. 
LARAP 
5-7 
5 20 25 50 250-350 
Total  
16 
45 
45 
106 
850-1,150 
The procedures for preparation and completion of AMDALs and UKL/UPLs are set out under 
Ministerial Decree 308/2005.  For AMDALs, a Province or local government ‘Tim Teknis’ 
prepares and approves the AMDAL ToRs, consultants carry out the studies and final review and 
approval is carried out by a Province Level AMDAL Commission. Given acknowledged lack of 
capacity within local environmental authorities to undertake this workload, the IPM will submit 
draft AMDAL ToRs directly to the Tim Teknis for approval. The IPM team will negotiate and 
agree this arrangement with Province Bapedalda in advance. 
 
A
basic format for completion of UKL/UPLs is provided in Annex 2 to Decree 308/2005.  
Completed UKL/UPL forms are submitted to the local environmental authority for review and 
approval.  Where land acquisition and compensation is required, the World Bank’s standard 
approach to the preparation of LARAP will be applied, as further detailed in below.   
 
Review and approval of studies. 
Completed environmental and social studies will be reviewed 
by safeguards specialists within the geographically located consultant teams (West Coast, Nias, 
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang, Province) prior to submission to the BRR/IPM team for 
secondary review and comments.  The BRR/IPM team will provide consolidated comments to the 
consultant for revisions to be made as necessary.  
 
Environmental studies (AMDAL, UKL/UPL) will be submitted for formal approval to the 
relevant local environmental authority.  During the first year of implementation of this TA, this is 
likely to be the Provincial Bapedalda. With time, the review and approval function may be 
transferred to local governments in line with existing practices elsewhere in Indonesia, with the 
exception of province level infrastructure which will continue to be reviewed and approved at 
province level
6
.
The standard practice at present is for local environmental authorities to provide 
approval/and or comments within 14 days. However, this remains an informal arrangement which 
will be negotiated between Province Bapedalda and the IPM team during the initial stages of the 
project. A sample of AMDAL and UKL/UPL will be submitted to the WBOJ for review and 
approval, at least one for each participating local government.  All LARAPs will be submitted to 
the WBOJ for review and approval, as further detailed in Section E.   
 
6
A
capacity assessment of local and provincial governments (to include environmental management 
capabilities) will be conducted by the end of Year 1. 
Page  9
9
Review and final approval of all required environmental and social studies will be a precondition 
for completion of detailed designs (DDs) and preparation of tender documents (TDs) by local 
governments. Local governments will have to demonstrate how social and environmental 
mitigation has been handled, and when required, integrated into detailed subproject designs and 
bill of quantities.  The BRR/IPM team will review and sign off on all completed DDs and TDs, 
including further safeguards review to ensure key impacts identified have been adequately 
addressed.  This could include one or a mix of the following: structural measures to be 
incorporated into detailed engineering design; non-structural measures to be listed in specific 
conditions of contract; and Standard Operating Procedures for social and impact management 
integrated into bid documents and contracts. The WBOJ will review a sample of completed 
DD/TDs, at least one for each participating local government.  
 
Figure A: Overview of Safeguards Screening and Review procedures (IREP/IRFF) 
 
Environmental orientation study and overall strategic infrastructure planning. 
One of the 
main objectives of IREP/IRFF is to provide strategic level advice to the BRR on infrastructure 
planning, focused on immediate reconstruction needs but set within the context of a 5-10 year 
development horizon.  In providing strategic planning advice, the IPM team will be structured 
according to the existing BRR divisions of: transportation, water and waste, sea defenses and 
drainage, and spatial planning.  The IPM team will review and consolidate existing plans, identify 
gaps and introduce additional variables as necessary to ensure that infrastructure planning in 
Aceh and Nias is founded on principles of sustainable development and social inclusion.  This 
S
UBPROJECT PREPARATIO
N
AND 
ELIGIBILITY FOR IRFF
SUB PROJECT ELIGIBILITY
 
PREPARATION OF LOCAL AND 
PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT 
ANNUAL INVESTMENT PLANS
 
SELECTION OF SUBPROJECTS FOR 
IRFF FUNDING
 
PREPARATION OF SELECTED 
SUBPROJECTS
 
SUBPROJECT APPROVAL
 
PROCUREMENT AND CONT
RACTING 
OF WORKS
 
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION AND 
SUBPROJECT MANAGEMENT
E
NVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL 
PROCEDURES
ƒ\03
Application of criteria to 
screen out high risk sub-projects 
 
ƒ\03
Environmental and social 
screening of selected sub-projects
ƒ\03
Implementation of 
AMDAL, UKL/UPL and LARAP 
studies as required 
 
ƒ\03
Integration of study 
results into DD/TDs 
ƒ\03
Compensation provided 
in advance of award of contract 
 
ƒ\03
Social and environmental 
and monitoring 
 
FORMAL REVIEW AND AP
PROVAL 
REQUIREMENTS
ƒ\03
Local environmental 
authority engages in screening 
ƒ\03
Screening results sent to 
local environmental authority and 
WBoJ 
 
ƒ\03
Province Bapedalda 
reviews and approves UKL/UPLs
ƒ\03
Province AMDAL 
Commission reviews and 
approves AMDALs 
ƒ\03
Local government 
formally agrees on all LARAPs 
by letter 
ƒ\03
WBoJ reviews and 
approves all LARAPs + a sample 
of AMDALs and UKL/UPLs 
 
ƒ\03
WBoJ reviews a sample 
of DD/TD packages 
 
ƒ\03
Project completes Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement 
Monitoring Forms 
 
ƒ\03
Submission of bi-annual 
Page  10
10
will require a significant input from social and environmental advisers to be included in the IPM 
team.
 
Accordingly, one of the initial tasks of the IPM team will be to carry out an environmental 
orientation study based on a pressure/state/response methodology, to determine how 
infrastructure planning can best take account of key environmental challenges. The paper will 
identify and characterize key environmental impacts of reconstruction along the West Coast, 
Aceh Besar, Banda Aceh, Sabang and in Nias, provide generic guidance on suitable mitigation 
measures and identify how existing environmental guidelines and standards should be revised or 
added to under IREP/IRFF. The paper will draw on existing Strategic Environmental Assessment 
work that has been underway in Aceh and Nias since mid 2005.  It will be drafted in a ‘policy 
brief’ style of no more than 12 pages and will be translated into Bahasa Indonesian.  
 
The paper will be used as a basis for consultations both within BRR and all participating local 
governments in order to identify key implications for infrastructure planning in terms of: general 
direction, prioritization, suitability of different types of investments, institutional organization for 
environmental management, capacity building needs, and resourcing.  This process will be 
completed within the first 6 months of the project feeding into the broader work of the IPM team 
on strategic infrastructure planning.   
 
Standards, guidelines and codes of practice. 
Implementation of this framework is dependent 
upon the establishment not only of clear procedures of social and environmental review, but also 
clear guidance and standards of performance.  Some of this material is already available from 
GOI sources and can be readily adapted, while in other areas there are gaps.  Table 3 summarizes 
the existing status of some of the guidance and standards of environmental and social review that 
will be required. The IPM team is responsible for establishing systems and procedures for 
effective implementation of this framework, to be integrated into the PIP.
 
Table 3: Required project documentation providing guidelines and standards 
Guidance/standards needed 
Status 
Required actions 
Subproject eligibility criteria 
(technical, economic, financial, 
environmental and social) for 
selection of subprojects for IRFF 
funding 
Not available 
IPM team to support BRR in preparing 
Standardised environmental screening 
formats (for 3-4 key infrastructure 
sub-sectors)  
Currently being 
prepared by GTZ on 
behalf of Province 
Bapedalda 
IPM team to immediately review 
status of the preparation of these 
screening formats and incorporate as 
appropriate into the PIP 
Screening criteria for subprojects 
requiring AMDAL 
Available (KepMen 
308/2005) 
None 
Screening criteria for subprojects 
requiring UKL/UPL 
Not available, but 
may be developed 
during course of the 
TA or replaced by the 
GTZ supported 
screening formats 
IPM to maintain close contact with 
Provincial Bapedalda to monitor 
progress 
Standard format for completion of 
UKL/UPLs 
Available (KepMen 
308/2005)  
None 
SOPs for environmental management 
of infrastructure subprojects 
Available for road 
projects only 
IPM team to compile additional SOPs 
covering other infrastructure sub-
sectors  
Standard tender documents for 
Available 
IPM team to integrate SOPs for 
Page  11
11
infrastructure subprojects 
environmental management into 
standard tender documents 
Field-based environmental monitoring 
protocols for infrastructure 
subprojects 
Not available 
IPM team to develop, tailored to 
infrastructure sub-sectors.  More detail 
required for monitoring of AMDALs 
and UKL/UPL, as opposed to SOPs. 
Monitoring Form for Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement 
Available from 
World Bank Jakarta 
None 
Format for 3 and 6 month reporting on 
environmental monitoring results 
Not available 
IPM team to develop tabular format 
indicating frequency of monitoring 
events, problems identified and 
corrective actions taken 
Guidelines on EIA and SEA  
Six guidelines 
produced by the BRR 
environment 
Department- 
None 
E. 
Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Indigenous People Policy Framework 
 
Principles. 
Activities associated with subproject preparation, design and implementation will 
trigger OP/BP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement. The existence of indigenous minorities in Nias 
will trigger OP 4.10 for this area. This Framework provides general guidelines in relation to 
application of these policies. The following provides overriding principles of how land issues will 
be dealt with:  
 
ƒ
Maximizing community consultation as a mechanism to inform on the market price 
of assets, clarify land tenure, resolve complaints and minimize resettlement.
 
The process 
of reconstruction will apply transparent and participatory procedures to ensure that all eligible 
and affected persons agree on any option that involves land acquisition and resettlement.  In 
most areas covered by this TA, there are community-driven development mechanisms (for 
example KDP, UPP structures) in place which will provide valuable inputs into subproject 
planning, design and consultation.  Specifically public consultation will be carried out at the 
following three points during the preparation and implementation of infrastructure 
subprojects: 
o
during the planning phase of the proposed investments, as a means of minimizing 
impacts and informing people of their compensation entitlements and options, as 
well as the grievance redress mechanism 
–
a
thorough consultation process has the 
advantage of minimizing the potential for land speculation problems by providing 
access to information on benefits to all;  
o
following the census of affected people and inventory of assets lost in order to 
get feedback on preferences regarding compensation options; 
o
during implementation of the subproject to assess whether adequate 
compensation has been provided. 
 
Consultation will be carried out within the context of applicable Bank and GOI standards, 
such as the Basic Agrarian Law which provides for equal rights between men and women in 
relation to land tenure. 
 
ƒ
Sensitivity to the local culture and the traditional regulations 
where appropriate.
 Land acquisition and resettlement will take into account relevant local or 
traditional regulations/laws where appropriate, and this will be reflected during the 
community consultation processes associated with development of LG annual plans.  Where 
Page  12
12
traditional laws and the Bank’s policies or GOI laws conflict (for example on the rights of 
women in relation to land tenure), these will be highlighted during consultations and every 
effort made to resolve such conflicts through traditional decision making structures. 
 
ƒ
Minimizing adverse impacts on assets.  
The BRR will ensure that no 
real decline in income will take place because of displacement and that all project affected 
persons will be compensated for their loses at market value or replacement cost, as well as 
provided with rehabilitation measures to assist them to improve, or at least maintain their pre-
disaster living standards and income earning capacity.  
 
Land Acquisition and Resettlement. 
At the appraisal stage of the Infrastructure Reconstruction 
Enabling Program, it is not possible to identify the intensity of the potential social issues and 
impacts that may arise as a result of the TA provided. Nor can the project assess the land 
acquisition and resettlement needed until specific subprojects are put forward for financing.  
However, in case the need for land acquisition or for involuntary resettlement does occur, the 
following provisions will apply: 
 
·
The local government that needs to acquire land for public good purposes will negotiate with 
the private landowners, as well as other categories of project affected people (renters, share 
croppers, squatters). The agreement on the type and level of compensation is made through a 
participatory and transparent process to be further detailed in the IREP/IRFF PIP, based on 
existing practices under other World Bank projects. Consultations will need to be thorough 
and widespread in order to eliminate the tendency towards profiteering from land speculators. 
·
Agreement between the local government and project affected people will be set out in the 
LARAP, with clear land plots demarcation, an inventory of the type/quantity of assets to be 
acquired and the corresponding type and amount of compensation (both if it is in cash or 
kind, e.g. replacement land), the timing of payment, and the funding sources for the 
compensation.  
·
Compensation will be paid by local government for land acquired and assets/income lost as a 
direct result of reconstruction activities. 
·
Compensation for land and assets/income will be provided at their replacement or market 
cost. Existing World Bank practice in Indonesia to refer to databases held by local 
commercial banks in assessing replacement and market costs, rather than to use independent 
assessors.  
·
The process of consultation associated with land acquisition and compensation will ensure 
that widows and other marginalized/vulnerable groups receive equal treatment, and it will be 
the responsibility of the geographically located social safeguards staff to ensure that this is 
the case.  The IPM and WBOJ safeguards staff will also review all LARAPs with this issue in 
mind.  
·
Where voluntary contribution of land or other assets are indicated, either in the new site or in 
the existing site where the reconstruction works will be located, there will be documentation 
of proof of ownership and a clear agreement between the contributors and the recipients, 
including the names, land plots with clear demarcation, and the details of the terms of the 
contributions. The usage of the contributed land will be defined through community 
consultation and be made transparent to the community. Land donation is acceptable only if: 
a) the land donator gets direct benefit from the project/subproject and they are not poor 
people; b) project affected peoples have been informed clearly their right on compensation 
based on market rpice and they still willing to donate without any pressure. BRR and the 
Bank should ensure that there is no pressure or intimidation on the project affected peoples in 
the process of land donation. 
Page  13
13
·
If the local government acquires land from private landowners through cash compensation or 
other compensation scheme, it will be paid/provided prior to the implementation of works.  
·
Local Governments are required to demonstrate that sufficient funds have been allocated in 
their DIPAs to cover costs of compensation before any proposed investments can be 
considered for funding.  
The effect of this requirement may be that subprojects for which 
financial compensation is necessary cannot be prepared and financed within the same budget 
year.
 
·
Other means of obtaining land, which would not trigger OP 4.12 but for which 
documentation would still be required to be reviewed by the project, include willing-seller-
willing-buyer situations, donation of community land and use of vacant government land.   
 
Any reconstruction activities involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition of more than 
25 households or 200 persons (or about 40 private landowners) will only be approved after 
preparation by the respective local government of a full Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Action Plan (LARAP) acceptable to the World Bank.  Several issues are likely to increase the 
complexity of land acquisition 
–
the availability of reliable land records, the inability of people to 
document ownership, the demise of occupants and subsequent uncertainty about transfers of title.  
 
LARAPs will spell out measures to implement the principles of compensation and livelihood 
restoration for any Project Affected Person (PAP). This includes any person who, on account of 
the execution of a subproject, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) 
loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or 
not such person must move to another location, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of 
such person. The format of the full LARAP will contain: 
 
·
description of proposed subproject activities that require land (together will alternative 
means used to acquire this land); 
·
a
census of persons affected/displaced by involuntary land acquisition including an 
inventory of lost assets; 
·
valuation of land to be acquired and lost assets 
·
detailed description of the compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided; 
·
description of consultations held with persons affected about alternatives for 
compensation and other related assistance; 
·
institutional responsibilities for implementation and procedures for grievance redress; 
·
arrangements for monitoring and implementation; 
·
time schedule for the implementation and budget; 
·
clear written agreement between the government and project affected people on extent, 
type and timing of compensation to be provided.  
 
Any reconstruction activities involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition of less than 
25 households/200 people (or about 40 private landowners) will only be approved after 
preparation by the respective local government of an abbreviated LARAP acceptable to the 
World Bank
7
.
The abbreviated LARAP contains the same essential information as a full LARAP 
but requires a less detailed survey of project affected people. 
 
7
Based on an initial review of 3-5 abbreviated LARAPs, the WBOJ may decide to transfer authority for 
review and approval to the IPM team. 
Page  14
14
Consultants engaged by the IPM team will carry out the LARAPs on behalf of respective local 
governments who will be responsible for mediating consultations on land acquisition and 
compensation, supported by safeguards specialists located within the geographically located 
consultant teams. The conclusions and implications of LARAPs must be agreed with respective 
local governments in advance of submission to the IPM and World Bank Office (Jakarta) for 
review and approval.  
 
Indigenous Peoples’ Framework
.
In view of the existence of distinct indigenous communities 
on Nias, an Indigenous Peoples’ Planning framework is required, based on World Bank 
Operational Policy 4.10 – as further elaborated in Annex 9a. The basic approach to be taken will 
entail ensuring that the views of Nias based indigenous people are meaningfully reflected in the 
preparation and implementation of reconstruction subprojects in their areas.  This will require 
consultation measures to be tailored to their specific socio-cultural setting, involving 
identification and use of appropriate means of communication and use of vernacular language.  
Complaints and grievance procedures will need to be adapted to ensure that affected people are 
able to effectively exercise their rights. During the initial stages of TA implementation, a 
workshop will be held in Gunung Sitoli to discuss infrastructure reconstruction needs and 
implications for local NGOs, indigenous leaders and representatives from the local museum of 
ethnography.  A repeated annual workshop will be held thereafter as a basis for identifying and 
responding to concerns.  
 
F. 
Consultation and Disclosure 
 
This environmental and safeguards framework has been discussed with BRR and other relevant 
authorities at the provincial and local government levels.  The BRR will disclose this framework 
in NAD Province and Nias.  The IDA will ensure that the framework is published in Infoshop and 
the IDA Indonesia Public Information Center.  The framework will be available also on the E-
Aceh website (
http://www.e-aceh.org
).  All LARAPs and full environmental assessments 
(AMDAL) will be made available in Indonesian language on the e-aceh website, with English 
language versions published in Infoshop. 
 
The preparation of local and provincial government Annual Investment Plans for infrastructure 
will be carried out in a participatory and transparent manner. All subprojects involving significant 
levels of re-design above and beyond simple replacement of infrastructure will be supported by 
community consultations to take account of project-affected people. The principles mechanisms 
for ensuring an appropriate level of community consultation are embedded in GOI procedures for 
AMDAL and World Bank requirements for LARAP.   
 
For example, the processes of acquiring land by the local government will involve consultation 
with all landowners (private and public), facilitated by the geographically based consultant 
support teams. The resulting agreements including maps of the land plots and owners will be 
disclosed to the public by local Dinas PU. The consultation process and the results agreed by the 
community members will be made available to the public through websites, meetings, newsletter, 
public postings, and other means.  
 
In relation to AMDAL, local environmental organizations and representatives of community 
groups participate in the formal process of AMDAL review through the Province AMDAL 
Commission and, where available, district level AMDAL Commissions.  Formal review is carried 
out at the ToR stage and at Draft Final report stage.  The Project will ensure that AMDAL 
Page  15
15
commission meetings have the required local community representation and will provide 
facilitation/coordination to this effect, including necessary briefings in advance so that local 
community representation at such meetings is meaningful.    
 
G. 
Mechanisms for Complaints and Grievance Redressal 
 
Each member of the community has the right to file complaints should there be any concerns that 
remain unsolved during community consultations. Complaints can be conveyed in the form of 
written documents, in person, through e-mail, media, etc.  Complaints can be addressed to the 
office of the Bupati and/or Dinas PU.  In consultation with Dinas PU, the geographically based 
consultant teams will respond to the complaints within a specific period of time.  Unresolved 
complaints at the city/district level will be brought to the existing Complaints Handling Unit at 
the BRR. All complaints and responses will be documented at the respective LG and/or province 
level specifying: (i) type of grievance; (ii) date of complaint; (iii) status of complaint (pending or 
resolved); and (iv) level at which the complaint was resolved/by whom. Operational elements of 
the complaints handling mechanism are further elaborated in Annex 11 (Anti-corruption Action 
Plan) and in the PIP. 
 
H. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Environmental monitoring. 
Implementation of EMPs and SOPs is the responsibility of 
contractors, as set out in bid and contract documents. Field-based environmental monitoring of 
SOPs to ensure contractor compliance is the primary responsibility of the supervising engineer 
assigned for each subproject by the relevant Dinas PU.  Additional support and spot-checking 
will be carried by the safeguards specialists assigned to the geographically based consultant teams 
funded under IREP/IRFF, in coordination with local environmental authorities.
 
Field based environmental monitoring of EMPs associated with UKL/UPL and AMDALs is the 
primary responsibility of local environmental authorities.  As current capacity to fulfill these tasks 
is extremely low, monitoring will be carried out by safeguards staff assigned to the 
geographically based supervision teams.  However special attention will be given to ensuring that 
local environmental authorities are able participate.  For example, the geographically based 
safeguards specialists will coordinate their monitoring missions closely with local environmental 
authorities ensuring that adequate transportation is available.   
 
The IPM team will develop a monitoring and reporting system, to be further detailed in the PIP. 
This will include field based environmental monitoring protocols tailored to subproject type, a 
budget for the purchase of monitoring equipment and usables, and clear procedures for dealing 
with non-compliances. One of the initial tasks to be carried out by the IPM environmental 
specialist will be to develop the monitoring protocols, and provide related training to Dinas PU 
supervising engineers, local environmental authorities and the geographically based consultants.   
 
The results of environmental monitoring will be collated on a three monthly basis by 
geographically based safeguards staff and submitted to the IPM team on a biannual basis.  
Significant non-compliances will be noted in these reports, whether issues raised have been 
resolved and what corrective actions were taken.  Six monthly monitoring reports will be 
submitted by the BRR to the WBOJ as an input to supervision missions. 
 
Routine IDA supervision missions will assess the overall implementation of the framework and, 
if required, recommend additional support.   
 
Page  16
16
Social monitoring. 
Monitoring and evaluation will be done to ensure that the social issues and 
impacts have been addressed properly and in a participatory, fair, and transparent manner, in 
particular where land acquisition, compensation and resettlement processes take place. The 
geographically based social safeguards staff will carry out data/information collection to monitor 
the progress and impacts, consolidate this information, advise on necessary follow up actions, and 
provide status reports to the BRR/IPM team. Reporting on compensation received and 
resettlement assistance provided in required in advance of construction.  The Bank applies a 
standard format for reporting on compensation for its subprojects, as further detailed in the PIP. 
Additional independent social monitoring focusing on implementation of LARAPs will be carried 
out by the BRR/IPM on a spot checking basis. A suitable local academic institution or NGOs will 
be engaged for this work, based on ToRs to be drafted by the IPM team.
 
I. 
Responsibilities, Capacity Building and Indicative Budget 
 
Under the overall coordination by the BRR, each project implementing entity at the province and 
local government level is expected to take responsibility in ensuring that this framework is 
supported.  The key tasks, responsibilities, related management actions required in supporting the 
framework are listed in the following table. 
 
Tasks 
Responsibility 
Required actions 
Detailed social and 
environmental management 
procedures for integration 
into the PIP 
IPM safeguards specialists 
A detailed set of procedures for 
screening, review, approval, monitoring 
and reporting will be developed within 
the first three months of the project, for 
discussion with local governments, and 
BRR approval.  The procedures will be 
based on this safeguards annex. 
Development of training 
modules and materials, 
required standards and 
guidelines  
IPM safeguards specialists 
Training materials prepared in 
Indonesian for joint social and 
environmental training in three modules 
including: 
·
General introduction to the 
safeguards framework (3 days) 
·
Specialist training for project 
staff (2 days) 
·
Specialist training for 
contractors (2 days) 
Guidelines and formats for screening 
(including basic information required 
when local governments submit their 
Annual Investment Plans), review, 
monitoring and reporting. 
General environmental and 
social safeguards orientation 
training for Project staff, 
and key local government 
counterparts (Bappeda, PU 
and Bapedalda)  
IPM safeguards specialists and 
geographically based 
safeguards specialists 
Delivery of 3x3-day training events to be 
held in Banda Aceh, Meulaboh and Nias.  
Approximately 50 people attending each 
event. 
Specialist environmental 
and social training in 
screening, review and 
supervision procedures, for 
Geographically based 
safeguards specialists 
Year 1 delivery of 3x2-day training 
events to be held in Banda Aceh, 
Meulaboh and Nias.  Approximately 100 
people attending each event 
Page  17
17
project staff and field 
supervision engineers  
Year 2 delivery 1 or 2 training events for 
newly recruiting staff. 
Specialist environmental 
and social training for 
contractors focusing on 
implementation of EMPs, 
LARAPs and SOPs 
Geographically based 
safeguards specialists 
Rolling training program to be provided 
for all contractors.  Contractors to be 
issued with a certificate for renewal 
every 3 years.  
Specialist training for 
consultants engaged in 
carrying out LARAPs 
IPM social safeguards 
specialist with support from 
WBOJ 
All local consultants carrying out 
LARAPs will require 3 day training in 
World Bank procedures for land 
acquisition and resettlement. 
Orientation paper on 
environmental issues and 
strategic infrastructure 
planning  
IPM environmental safeguards 
specialist 
Study will be completed within the first 
6
months of effectiveness of this TA.  
Safeguards screening 
IPM safeguards specialists, in 
consultation with local 
environmental authorities 
3
step screening process applied to all 
subprojects approved for funding by 
BRR/IPM team 
Commission environmental 
and social studies 
(AMDAL, UKL/UPL, 
LARAP) as necessary, 
including drafting of ToRs 
IPM safeguards specialists on 
basis of formal requests from 
respective local governments. 
Geographically based 
safeguards specialists draft 
TORs, reviewed by IPM. 
LARAP ToRs to be 
additionally reviewed by 
WBOJ  
 
The Infrastructure Reconstruction 
Financing Facility (IRFF) is expected to 
fund approximately US$250-300 million 
for a total of 60-80 individual 
subprojects.  10-15% are of these 
subprojects are expected to require full 
EA and/or full LARAP.  40-50% of 
subprojects are expected to require 
UKL/UPL or abbreviated LARAP. 
 
Review and approval of 
AMDAL and UKL/UPL 
Local environmental authority 
(Province level during Year 1) 
WBOJ to review at least one 
from each participating local 
government. 
Formal review and approval of ToRs and 
draft AMDAL by Provincial AMDAL 
Commission 
Formal review and approval of 
UKL/UPL by local environmental 
authority 
Review and approval of 
LARAPs 
WBOJ, with prior review and 
acceptance by respective local 
governments 
Geographically based social safeguards 
consultants to ensure study conclusions 
are agreed with local governments, prior 
to submission of draft reports to WBOJ 
for approval, via IPM team. 
Provide compensation for 
land acquisition and lost 
assets/livelihoods 
Local Governments 
Form and rate of compensation to be 
negotiated with Project Affected People 
by Local Government with assistance 
from geographically based social 
safeguards staff. 
Compensation delivered in full by LG, 
prior to award of contract. 
Monitoring and reporting 
For SOPs, field based 
supervising engineers 
supported by geographically 
based safeguard specialists 
Supervising engineers complete field 
protocols 
Monitoring data compiled by local 
safeguards specialists into 3 monthly 
reports for IPM team/WBOJ 
Page  18
18
For AMDAL and UKL/UPL, 
local environmental 
authorities supported by 
geographically based 
safeguard specialists 
Geographically based safeguards 
consultants will carry out routine 
inspections with a focus on subprojects 
requiring AMDAL in coordination with 
local environmental authorities. 
For LARAPs, geographically 
based safeguard specialists, 
and via independent 
organizations 
Individual reports submitted to IPM 
team and WBOJ, as necessary, for each 
subproject 
For Isolated Vulnerable 
people, geographically based 
safeguards specialists 
For Nias only. Individual reports 
submitted to IPM team and WBOJ as 
necessary. 
The main capacity needs and related budget items required to support implementation of this 
framework are provided in the following table. 
 
Item 
Needs 
Indicative budget under 
IREP 
Additional budget 
required under IRFF 
1
Senior (international) 
Environmental Specialist 
1
Senior Social 
Specialist 
18 months, including 12 
months continuous during 
year 1. 
24 months, including 12 
months continuous during 
year 1. 
None 
Environmental 
and social 
safeguards support 
to the IPM (also 
covering province 
level infrastructure 
investments) 
Facility to hire 
consultants for social 
and environmental 
studies 
Initial US$1million in funds 
to cover costs of 
environmental and social 
studies. Additional resources 
to be made available as 
necessary via the IRFF. 
As necessary from IRFF 
Environmental 
and social 
safeguards support 
to the Nias TA 
Team  
1
safeguards specialist 
(social and 
environmental) 
36 man-months 
 
None 
Environmental 
and social 
safeguards support 
to the West Coast 
TA Team 
2
environmental 
specialists 
2
social specialists 
50 man-months (total) 
50 man-months (total) 
None 
Environmental 
and social 
safeguards support 
to the Province 
level TA Team 
1
environmental 
specialist 
 
1
social specialist 
-
18 months, including 12 
months continuous 
during year 1 
18 months, including 12 
months continuous 
during year 1 
Environmental 
and social 
safeguards support 
to the Aceh Besar, 
Banda Aceh, and 
Sabang TA Team 
1
safeguards specialist 
(social and 
environmental) 
-
36 man-months 
Page  19
19
Development and 
delivery of modules to 
be prepared by IPM 
safeguards specialists 
No additional cost 
None 
Environmental 
and social 
safeguards 
training 
Training budget required 
for an estimated 15 
training events over the 
course of the TA 
US$7,000 per training event 
to cover costs of travel, 
accommodation for 
participations, room hire, 
consumables) 
None 
Capacity building 
for local 
environmental 
offices 
1
environmental 
specialist to be provided 
to Provincial Bapedalda 
to assist with routine 
subproject screening and 
review functions. 
Full time (36 months) at 
local government fee rates 
for a mid to senior level 
official 
Potentially to be funded 
by BRR 
Monitoring and 
reporting 
Travel costs  
US$25,000 to be allocated 
to each of the following 
contracts 
–
IPM, West 
Coast, Nias (Province level 
to be covered under IPM 
contract) 
Additional $25,000 to 
cover Aceh Besar, 
Banda Aceh and 
Sabang. 
Page  20
20
A
NNEX 
8
A
-
I
NDIGENOUS 
P
EOPLES 
P
LANNING 
F
RAMEWORK
 
FOR 
T
REATMENT OF 
I
NDIGENOUS OR 
I
SOLATED 
V
ULNERABLE 
P
EOPLE
 
A. Objectives 
 
The design of this project is structured to ensure the participation and inclusion of various groups 
within communities in local level decision making over resource allocation. However, the project 
recognizes that Indigenous Peoples from a particular group that merit a different approach and 
specific support. Therefore, in accordance with OP4.10, the following framework for addressing 
indigenous people will be adopted for the project. 
 
The Objectives of this framework are to: 
(i) 
Ensure that indigenous peoples are involved in free and informed 
consultation on planned project activities; 
(ii) 
Ensure that indigenous peoples participate in and benefit from the project; 
(iii) 
Avoid or minimize potentially adverse effects of the project on indigenous 
people 
 
B. Definition 
 
“Isolated vulnerable peoples” (IVP) is the term used officially by the Indonesian Government to 
describe groups that have the characteristics of “indigenous peoples” as used in OP 4.10. This 
document will hereafter use the term “isolated vulnerable people”. 
 
For the purposes of this project, isolated vulnerable peoples are defined as those that present 
varying degrees of the following characteristics: 
(iv) 
a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these 
areas; 
(v) 
self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct 
cultural group; 
(vi) 
an indigenous language different from the common regional language (e.g. 
Javanese); 
(vii) 
the presence of customary social and political institutions; and 
(viii) 
primarily subsistence-oriented production. 
 
C. Framework 
 
The IVP will be the beneficiaries of the project/subproject and no projects/subprojects with 
adverse impact to the IVP will be approved, including involuntary land acquisition affecting 200 
or more people. 
 
Isolated vulnerable peoples are not prevalent in all the project sites –they are only found in the 
islands of Nias and not in the Province of Aceh. The following steps will be taken to ensure that, 
where isolated vulnerable groups do exist, the project caters to their specific needs. 
 
(i) 
For the areas where isolated vulnerable groups are identified (parts of Nias), 
social safeguards specialists will organize orientation training for relevant staff 
within the local administration (Bappeda, Dinas PU and Bapedalda) in how to 
work with isolated vulnerable groups in a useful way to identify mechanisms for 
effective participation, and address specific challenges in working with such 
Page  21
21
groups, for example, how to deal with groups that may be in conflict with the 
larger community, etc. 
(ii) 
Opportunities will be provided for IVPs to be consulted independently, out of the 
non-IVP group in a language/dialect familiar to them 
(iii) 
Appropriate media and means of communication will be identified and applied, 
potentially different from consultations processes applied in non-IVP areas 
(iv) 
Where the isolated vulnerable group speaks a language different from Bahasa 
Indonesia, relevant brochures and documents will be translated in the appropriate 
language.  
 
These steps will be aimed at ensuring that isolated vulnerable peoples participate fully in the 
project, are aware of their rights and responsibilities, and are able to voice their needs during the 
participatory planning process.  
 
D. Monitoring and Grievance Procedures 
 
Where isolated vulnerable peoples are identified, the safeguards specialists within the 
geographically located TA teams will be required to report on their participation in the project, 
both to the IPM and to the World Bank.  
 
The project has a complaint system that allows community members to raise issues or complaints 
at various levels- at the community level (through community leaders), at the district level 
(through the respective Dinas PU), and at the BRR level (through the Complaints Handling Unit). 
Where isolated vulnerable people are concerned, the relevant safeguard specialists will ensure 
that grievance redress mechanisms are developed in culturally appropriate ways in close 
collaboration with the relevant group. 
 
Project evaluation studies will include monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the project on 
isolated vulnerable people.  
 
The IVP-NGO will be part of the monitoring team and involve in facilitating the participatory 
planning process in the program. 
Page  22
22
A
NNEX 
8
B
–
F
RAMEWORK FOR MAINSTREAMING GENDER IN INFRASTRUDCTURE 
 
A. Background  
 
For the tsunami survivors, the impacts have been disproportionately borne by women and 
children. There is evidence in Aceh of an increase in violence against women, early marriages of 
girls, decline in the quality of health care, and limited access to financial resources and ownership 
of assets such as land and housing
8
.
Events of this scale weaken the status of women and girls and 
their ability to negotiate both within and outside the family. The loss of productive assets, homes, 
and family members all contribute to increased gender inequality. In addition women’s access to 
rehabilitation and reconstruction resources are constrained, as those efforts often rely on existing 
structures of resource distribution that reflect the local patriarchal structure
9
.
Attempts to address 
gender and women’s concerns during relief and reconstruction have been fragmented, and the 
impacts modest. 
 
B. GoI and BRR Mandates on Gender Equality 
 
The 1945 constitution outlines the Government of Indonesia’s commitment to the principle of 
equality which guarantees equal rights between men and women in education, health, economy, 
and political participation. Indonesia has also ratified several international conventions including 
the Convention on the Elimination of the all forms of Discrimination Against Women. This 
commitment has been complemented by the issuance of Presidential instruction on gender 
mainstreaming strategy {Instruksi President (INPRES)} No. 9/2000}, which is accompanied by 
“Guidelines for Gender Mainstreaming in National Development”. This legal framework outlines 
that all heads of government institutions at the national and sub-national levels are responsible for 
applying the gender mainstreaming strategies. 
 
The BRR gender policy was developed in 2006, recognizing the need to identify effective ways to 
integrate gender-responsive actions into the development and reconstruction process with donors, 
and throughout all levels of government. The policy was accompanied by sector strategies to 
mainstream gender perspectives into the formulation, planning, and implementation throughout 
the BRR’s sectors – including housing, infrastructure, economic development, health, education, 
women’s empowerment, social & religious, and institutional development. The gender policy and 
sectoral strategy was signed by the BRR’s Executive Director and will be effective in September 
2006.   
 
C. Mainstreaming Gender & Infrastructure   
 
To date, infrastructure reconstruction projects have been implemented in a top-down process, 
focused more on technical targets than attention to gender considerations or wider social factors.  
There is increasing awareness within the BRR on the urgency of improving delivery of gender 
sensitive infrastructure services for the community, as women and men have different priorities 
and needs. As the primary users, women are affected the most by water and sanitation 
investments – where design, tariffs, and access can have either positive or negative impacts on 
8
A
report on documented findings on th
e
status of women IDPS’ human rights in Aceh, Indonesian National Commission on 
Violence against Women (Komnas Perempuan), April 2006. “Sexual violence accounts for nearly 74% of all the cases of violence 
toward women IDPs in Aceh-41% of which occurred in family domain. In the public domain, 41% of the perpetrators were not known 
to the victims. The group most vulnerable to sexual attacks were found to be young women aged between 18-25 (53% of case)”.
 
9
Tsunami’s Women Survivors Demand Greater Role in Recovery and Reconstruction Efforts. Aceh, Asia Pacific Forum on Women, 
Law and Development, 2006. 
 
Page  23
23
health.  The impacts of road investments can open opportunities to women through new markets 
and decreased travel times, but have potential to increase risks to exposure to HIV.   
 
Addressing these concerns, IREP/IRFF is structured to ensure equal representation and increased 
participation of women and men in decision-making regarding provision of infrastructure services 
and resource allocation. The project recognizes this goal cannot be achieved unless efforts are 
made to identify gender-differentiated preferences, roles, responsibilities and needs on patterns of 
usage of infrastructure. A review of criteria applied in prioritizing design and implementing 
infrastructure provision, development of framework and outreach plan under IREP/IRFF, will 
assist in identifying areas of gender bias, and will underline the need to ensure that sectors are 
defined in ways which take account of women (as well as men’s) needs and priorities.  
 
The extent to which gender issues are integrated into the project varies depending on the nature of 
the service. Consultation will be held to ensure that women are given a strong voice in choices to 
be made over location and design, as well as the relative prioritization of sub-projects. 
 
D. Objectives of the gender Framework  
 
ƒ
Ensure women and men’s equal access, presence and influence in consultation process of 
sub-project activities. 
ƒ
Ensure that the project design and implementation plans are responsive to local community’ 
needs, by differentiating, prioritizing and addressing those needs on the basis of gender. 
ƒ
Avoid and minimise potential adverse effect of the project (spread of HIV/Aids, contract 
marriage, land rights, imbalance in gender role on local community (women and men, boys 
and girls).  
 
Approach
.
The demand of gender-sensitive approaches in this project focuses on core interlinked 
aspect of infrastructure provision:  
ƒ
Access and appropriateness  
ƒ
Sustainability and effectiveness  
 
E. Implementation Framework 
 
It will be the responsibility of the IPM and PDCS TA teams to assist BRR to develop relevant 
procedures, guidelines and checklists to ensure mainstreaming of gender into the IREP/IRFF 
project cycles. In this process BRR gender advisor will consult closely with IPM consultants, 
while local expertise will be mobilized under IREP/IRFF IPM to be positioned at district level. 
 
Eligibility criteria & Prioritization
.
Under the IREP/IRFF project cycle management, all 
subprojects are required to be selected according to BRR eligibility criteria. In this case, IPM 
team will assist BRR in formulation of gender review/criteria guidelines. Such guidelines will be 
disseminated to local government and BRR regional offices through PDCS teams in the field. 
This will help local governments identify the potential social impacts of the sub-projects and 
address entry points at the start of the project. The IPM team (with support from the BRR 
Women’s Empowerment Unit (WEU) will develop an outreach plan (including mapping of civil 
society organization active in the field of gender, to be provided by the BRR WEU) to ensure 
representation and participation of women in the process of selection and priority list of multi-
year investment plans. Draft LGIPs and PGIPs are required to be discussed with civil society 
Page  24
24
organizations10 through consultative mechanisms by PDCS TA.  Consultative mechanisms might 
consists of community forums, sex-segregated meeting, media campaigns etc.  
 
Review and Approval
.
PDCS team and gender focal points will be responsible to present the 
outcomes of civil society organization’s recommendations and related gender concerns of LGIPs 
and PGIPs to the joint secretariat for further consideration. The final list of subprojects will be 
then shared with the BRR WEU.  
 
Design & construction supervision.
 The IPM team is responsible to engage gender expertise to 
develop sectoral guidelines for integrating gender concerns into implementation phase including 
design and construction supervision. Guidelines will include practical checklists on gender by 
major infrastructure sectors.  The guidelines will be approved jointly by BRR Infrastructure Unit, 
with guidance from the BRR WEU. The PDCS team is responsible to ensure all subprojects 
comply with IPM gender sectoral guidelines.  The PDCS team is responsible for implementation 
of the outreach plan developed by IPM TA.    
 
The BRR WEU in coordination with relevant stakeholders will design and implement gender –
infrastructure risk reduction program to minimize the risks are associated with construction 
implementation. The program will include reproductive health and HIV/Aids campaign, 
livelihood, community awareness-raising on contract marriage, early marriage, trafficking and 
awareness raining on women’s rights on land and implication of land acquisition. PDCS team 
will coordinate with relevant stakeholders at the field to complement and help support BRR WEU 
risk reduction program.   
 
Monitoring and Evaluation
.
IPM consultants, with the assistance of the BRR WEU, will be 
responsible for developing a gender sensitive monitoring and reporting system for the project. 
Appropriateness and gender responsiveness of the project will be measured and evaluated against 
performance indicators created by the BRR WEU and IPM team. 
 
Gender report will be incorporated in IREF project reporting schedule (quarterly& annually). The 
PDCS team is responsible to report on gender impacts in their quarterly reports. Gender impacts 
will be reported in the quarterly and annual reports of the IPM and PDCS consultants.  
 
Capacity Building
.
IPM team is responsible to organize training on gender, general guidelines 
and sectoral guidelines to train PDCS consultants. This can be integrated in overall training that 
PDCS consultant are required to receive.  
 
10
 According to Asia-
Pacific Forum, “more than 70%
10
 of the local civil organizations working in the affected areas are women's 
groups or groups mostly staffed by women”.  36 women organizations also have been identified by BRR as leading agencies in the 
field of gender with expertise in different sectors. Saying that there are limited experiences on implication of gender into infrastructure 
projects and engagement of women organizations in this field. 
 
Page  25
25
 
