Report No. PIC908
Project Name                West Bank and Gaza-Emergency Rehabilitation Project (&
Region                      Middle East and North Africa
Sector                      Non-Sectoral
Project ID                  XOPA34112
Implementing Agency         Palestinian Economic Council for Development
and Reconstruction
c/o Palestine Bureau of Statistics (PBS)
Jerusalem
Fax 972-2 816-230
Contact: Dr. Hasan Abu-Libdeh
Deputy Managing Director
Date prepared               May 16, 1994
Appraisal Date              October 1993
Board Date                  May 5, 1994
Background. The historic September 13, 1993 Agreement between
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the
Declaration of Principles (DOP), and the prospect of significant
development assistance from the international community provide a
window of opportunity for addressing some of the most critical social
and economic needs of the Palestinian population and for laying a
foundation for addressing the many structural ills of the economy.
Under DOP, Palestinian authorities will assume control of internal
affairs in Gaza and Jericho; in the West Bank they will have
significantly increased responsibilities. In preparation for
exercising these new responsibilities, the PLO and its policy-making
arm, the Palestinian National Authority (PNA), have elaborated plans
to rehabilitate the economy. Also, on October 31, 1993, they
established the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction (PECDAR) as the main vehicle for economic policy
making, programming, management, administration and aid coordination
during the period of transition to full autonomy.
To help mobilize international support for the OT, a donors
conference was held in Washington, D.C. on October 1, 1993.
Participants in the conference felt strongly that unless the Agreement
was followed by signs of rapid economic and social improvement for
broad segments of the Palestinian population, political support for
the Agreement may wither, undermining the entire peace process and
with incalculable consequences. In order to provide effective support
to the OT, donors: a) pledged over US$2 billion in financial
assistance; b) established an Ad Hoc Liaison Committee (AHLC) to help
coordinate Donor assistance, with the Bank as secretariat; and c)
requested the Bank to provide a programmatic framework for effective
use of the planned assistance.
IDA Assistance Strategy.    IDA has been in the forefront of
efforts to help Palestinian authorities define a feasible and
comprehensive rehabilitation and development strategy. Its six-volume
study, prepared together with Palestinian counterparts during 1993 and



entitled "Developing The Occupied Territories: An Investment in
Peace", September 1993, provided the technical and policy
underpinnings for the deliberations of the October 1993 Donors
conference. Also the Bank set aside US$50 million from its profits
into a special trust fund (the Trust Fund for Gaza) to help finance
priority rehabilitation projects in Gaza, and established a US$35
million Technical Assistance Trust Fund to help finance studies for
program and project preparation and institution building. Further,
responding to the urgency expressed by all parties, IDA missions were
dispatched to the OT during October 11 to November 22, 1993 and again
during December 6 to 14, 1993, to prepare an Emergency Assistance
Program (EAP, or "the Program"), a supporting Technical Assistance
Program (TAP), and a complementary Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(ERP). The EAP, TAP and an outline of ERP were presented at a
Consultative Group (CG) meeting held in Paris on December 16, 1993.
These were discussed and agreed by donors, and pledges of financial
support were obtained.
Project Objectives. The proposed Emergency Rehabilitation
Project is a core component of EAP. Its main objective is to help
alleviate the current crisis by delivering widespread and tangible
benefits to broad sections of the Palestinian population as quickly,
equitably and effectively as possible. This would be done by removing
the most critical infrastructural bottlenecks, improving essential
facilities services, and creating productive employment.
Project Description. The proposed credit would help finance:
(a) the rehabilitation, reconstruction and/or improvement of priority
infrastructural services in four sectors: (i) education; (ii) power;
(iii) water, waste water and sanitation; and (iv) roads; and (b)
institutional support, capacity building and project management to
effectively implement both the project and EAP. The infrastructure
rehabilitation component would include: improvements to structures
(including school buildings and road and drainage structures),
networks, systems, plant and facilities; provision of essential
vehicles, equipment and supplies (including laboratory equipment and
text books), and spares; and technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation. The institutional support component
would include support for identifiable priority expenditures of
central levels of government, covering: the establishment and
operating costs of PECDAR for three years; incremental operating costs
associated with the implementation of the project (project/contract
review, evaluation, monitoring, accounting, auditing, reporting);
essential vehicles equipment supplies and spares; and such other
activities and expenditures which are essential for the effective
execution of the project.
Project Cost/Financing. The total cost of ERP is estimated at
US$128 million including physical and price contingencies. A Gaza
Trust Fund (para. 3) credit of US$30 million would help finance
project components in Gaza. This credit would be on IDA terms. Donor
cofinancing of US$18 million on a joint basis and US$80 million on a
parallel basis would help support components in both Gaza and the West
Bank.
-2-



Project Implementation. The project would be implemented over a
three-year period beginning July 1, 1994, and draw upon the capacity
being established in PECDAR for overall program management.
Responsibility for policy guidance would lie with PECDAR's Board of
Directors. However, responsibility for overall infrastructure
investment program management, project implementation, monitoring and
reporting would lie with the management of PECDAR, specifically with
the Director of the Program Management and Monitoring Office (PMO).
To ensure that PECDAR can mobilize quickly and yet remain a lean
organization capable of responding effectively to changing
circumstances, PMO would rely on the services of competent management
and procurement consultants. This would be a firm recruited
internationally under Bank procurement guidelines. PMO would also
employ sector implementation consultants to help prepare and supervise
the implementation of the power and inter-urban roads components. In
order to avoid over-centralization and ensure that local needs and
priorities are effectively attended to, while the PMO (and PECDAR)
would have its headquarters in the West Bank it would establish a sub-
office in Gaza. Also, to the extent possible, PMO would rely on
existing institutions and agencies, mainly the municipalities, to
execute sub-projects; and in order to expedite project implementation,
municipalities would be provided with technical support and given
considerable autonomy in contracting for works costing US$0. million
or less. This limit would be reviewed periodically by PECDAR and
adjusted upwards as municipalities demonstrate effective managerial
capacity.
Project Sustainability. While the focus of ERP would be on
rehabilitation, project components have been selected with a view to
sustainability.   A key step in project design was the joint
development with Palestinian counterparts of a short and medium term
strategic framework and the utilization of this framework for sub-
project identification. Also, the project selection criteria include
consideration of recurrent cost implications and would help to rule
out sub-projects involving significant and unsustainable future
recurrent costs. In addition, to the extent possible reliance would
be placed on local capacity and existing institutions, and technical
assistance would be provided under the project and through the TAP to
strengthen the capacity of these institutions. Finally, in designing
the project all feasible steps were taken to ensure local ownership-a
critical aspect of sustainability.
Environmental Aspects. The proposed project has been placed in
environmental screening category "B" consistent with the provisions of
Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." Proposed
sector programs have been subject to field-based review by Bank and
consultant environmental specialists. Currently there are no known
project proposals whose implementation would require extensive land
acquisition or result in involuntary resettlement. No known
archaeological or historical sites would be affected by activities to
be supported. Implementation of the proposed project would result in
significant improvements in the management of water and wastewater in
both the West Bank and Gaza. Because of past experiences, the project
would not support construction of new wastewater treatment plants or
sludge disposal facilities prior to a detailed environmental
- 3 -



examination of the interventions in this area. Activities under the
project would reduce the risk of pollution of the highly sensitive
Gaza groundwater aquifer. Rehabilitation of the road network would
include improvements to drainage, thus reducing flooding in
municipalities and erosion; in addition, the resulting efficiencies in
travel operations would reduce air pollution. All activities would be
subject to environmental review by the environmental specialist in the
PMO of PECDAR, Palestinian Environmental Protection Authority and IDA
during final design. Environmental mitigation and monitoring measures
would be included as appropriate. Under the complementary TAP,
institutional development programs would be funded to support
development of the Palestinian environmental and cultural resources
management authorities, including the preparation of environmental
assessment procedures and an environmental monitoring system.
Poverty Category. The proposed project would directly and
positively impact the poor through the creation of a significant
number of low-skilled employment opportunities in construction (para.
11), and through the improvement of basic infrastructural services
serving low income families.
Benefits. The project would have a particularly positive impact
on employment: an estimated 10,000 man-years of direct employment in
construction would be created. Further, by helping to improve the
delivery of essential infrastructural services, the project would
provide other significant and widespread social and economic benefits.
Specifically, it would help: improve public health and education
services; protect and conserve sensitive and limited water resources,
and reduce the losses due to network inadequacies and inefficient
utility operations; make a start in improving roads, reducing traffic
congestion, travel time, and vehicle operating costs; and improve the
general quality of life for broad segments of the population as well
as overall economic efficiencies. The project would also help build
consumer and investor confidence, strengthen local institutions, and
open up opportunities for private sector participation and development
through consulting, contracting, and manufacturing inputs. The
benefits would accrue to virtually all residents of the OT, and
particularly to low income families in Gaza and in the camps and
villages.
Risks. The project faces considerable risks, many of which
cannot be avoided. These risks fall into three broad categories: (a)
Political Risks: the success of the project requires stability in the
OT, steady progress in the bilateral and multilateral negotiations,
and a maturation of internal political processes. Instability and/or
Israeli/Palestinian negotiation delays could significantly slow
activities which depend on their outcome and increase project costs.
(b) Managerial and Technical Risks: Effective and timely
implementation of the project requires the early consolidation of
PECDAR, including the appointment of key staff; the early
establishment of efficient operating systems and procedures and the
appointment of key consultants. (c) Program Risks: ERP is designed to
support EAP, thus implementation of program activities with a
questionable technical or economic merit could undermine donor
confidence and hence program and project viability. Furthermore, the
- 4 -



capacity of the local consulting and contracting industry and the
extent of foreign contractor interest is not known with precision, and
contracting bottlenecks could delay implementation. Political risks
would be significant and difficult to manage. On the other hand,
success in providing tangible benefits to the Palestinian population
through EAP and ERP could be expected to help consolidate the peace
agreement. Managerial and technical risks would be minimized by
providing technical assistance to ensure that PECDAR is established on
a sound operational basis (the latter being a condition of Board
presentation), by allocating as much responsibility as possible to
existing institutions and supporting these institutions with competent
local consultants. Program risks would be minimized by establishing
effective project selection, screening and review mechanisms in PMO,
and by employing competent local and foreign consultants to weed out
badly conceived or designed sub-projects. Also, the project has been
specifically designed to permit flexibility during implementation,
including the restructuring of key components if necessary. Finally,
risks would be minimized by establishing appropriate monitoring,
reporting and control mechanisms, intensive IDA support during the
first year and a half of PECDAR operations, and by formal, half-yearly
joint project reviews.
Contact Point:   Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information based on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



