Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19472
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FiRST EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Trust Fund Credit No. 26066)
June 25, 1999
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 29, 1994)     (Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 1998)
Currency Units in use = New Israeli Shequalim    NIS 1 = US$ 0.24
(NIS) and Jordanian Dinar (JD)                 US$ 1 = NIS 4.17
US$ 1.00 = NIS 2.96
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.701
JD 1.00 = NIS 4.22
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
B2000       Bethlehem 2000 Project Authority
CDP         Community Development Project
CHF         Swiss Frank
DANIDA    Danish International Development Association
DKK         Danish Kroner
DOP         Declaration of Principles
EAP         Emergency Assistance Program
EHRP        Education and Health Rehabilitation Project
EIB         European Investment Bank
ERP         Emergency Rehabilitation Project
EU          European Union
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
MC          Management Consultants
MIDP        Municipal Infrastructure Development Project
MoPW        Ministry of Public Works
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
OPEC        Organization of petroleum Exporting Countries
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
OT          Occupied Territories
PA          Palestinian Authority
PECDAR    Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PCD         Project Concept Document
PLO         Palestine Liberation Organization
PMO         Projects Monitoring Office
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
TAP         Technical Assistance Program
TFGWB       Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank
WBG         West Bank and Gaza
Vice President                                         Kemal Dervi,
Country Director                                       Joseph Saba
Sector Director                                        Jean-Claude Villiard
Sonia Hammam                                           Sector Manager
Task Manager                                           Kingsley Robotham



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
West Bank and Gaza
FIRST EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE                 .................................................... iv
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .....................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .....................................................1
A.  Background, Objectives, Description, Expected Benefits and Risks .1
B. Achievements of Objectives                                                   .3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                              .5
D. Project Sustainability                                                   .9
E.  Disbursement, Reporting, Accounting and Auditing .10
F. Bank Performance .10
G. Recipient Performance                                                    .1
H. Assessment of Project Outcome .12
. Future Outcome .12
J. Key Lessons Leared .12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ....................................................                                      13
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ....................................................                                 14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................                             15
Table 3:  Project Timetable ....................................................                                      16
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................. ........... 16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................................              17
Table 6A: Project Costs ....................................................                                          18
Table 6B: Project Financing ....................................................                                      18
Table 6C: Project Financing Plan by Donor &  Sector ....................................................              19
Table 6D: Project Financing by Donor & No. of Projects (Actual) .................................................... 20
Table 6E: Project Costs (Procurement) ....................................................                            21
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants ....................................................                              22
Table 8:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................                           22
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Missions ....................................................                               23
ANNEX 1: Comments from  Borrower ....................................................                                 25
MAP    IBRD No. 25562
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



WEST BANK AND GAZA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Trust Fund Credit No. 26066)
1. PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the West Bank and Gaza's (WBG's)
First Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP-1), funded by special IDA administered Trust Fund
Credit (TF#026066) in the amount of US$30 million. The Credit was approved on May 26, 1994,
and made effective on September 9, 1994.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1998. The project was expected to have been completed
by December 31, 1997, but at the request of the recipient the closing date was extended (twice) to
December 31, 1998. The Credit was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on
(May 29, 1999). Cofinancing for the project was provided by Saudi Arabia (US$30m), Denmark
(DKKI20m), Switzerland (CBF 15m) and Kuwait (US$2m).
The ICR was prepared by Kingsley Robotham (Task Team Leader, MNSID), Hisham Labadi and
Majed Bayyah (Operations Officers, MNCWG). It was reviewed by Ms. Sonia Hamam, Urban
Sector Leader (MNSID) and Jean-Claude Villiard, Director (MNSID). Secretarial support was
provided by Mmes. Khalida Qutob, Terri Wells and Blanche Williams. The recipient provided
comments which are included in Annex 1 of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was started in February 1999 by the Bank supervision team based in the
field. It is based on materials in the project files, visits to project sites and discussions with
counterpart staff of the recipient. The recipient contributed to the preparation of the ICR by: a)
making their own reports available; b) engaging in extensive discussions with the Bank
supervision team; and c) commenting on the draft version of the ICR.
iv



WEST BANK AND GAZA
FIRST EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Trust Fund Credit No. 26066)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Background, Objectives, Expected Benefits And Risks
1.   Background: Following the signing of the historic September 1993 Agreement between
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the Bank was asked to take the lead in
developing a program of support. It responded by developing the US$1.2 billion Emergency
Assistance Program for the Occupied Territories (EAP, December 1993). In further support of
the EAP, the Bank itself contributed US$50 million from its net income to establish a special
IDA administered Trust Fundfor Gaza and the West Bank (TFGWB) from which monies could be
lent to the PLO for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority. This Emergency Rehabilitation
Project (ERP-1) was the first project to be funded from the TFGWB, and thus became the first
program of assistance to the Palestinian people.
2.   Original Project Objectives: ERP-1 aimed "to help alleviate the current crisis by
delivering widespread and tangible benefits to broad sectors of the Palestinian population as
quickly, equitably and effectively as possible" (SAR - p.4, para 12). It planned to do this by:
-  Removing the most critical infrastructural bottlenecks, and improving essential facilities and
services;
-  Creating productive employment; and
-  Building capacity and providing institutional support in the area of project and program
management.
These objectives and their achievement must be viewed in the context of the very deep and
pervasive social, economic, political, infrastructural and institutional crisis in WBG at the time of
project preparation (late 1993); the need to act, and to act quickly; the need simultaneously to
build the institutional capacity to act, and to build this capacity from scratch in a very difficult
environment.
3.   Project Description: ERP- 1 aimed to help finance:
*  The rehabilitation and improvement of priority infrastructural services in three sectors:
education; water, including wastewater and sanitation; and roads; and
*  Institutional support, capacity building and project management to effectively implement the
project, EAP and TAP.
4.   Expected Benefits and Risks: Apart from its contribution to improving infrastructure, the
project was expected to have a signifi cantly positive impact on employment - creating
approximately 10,000 man years of direct employment in construction. Considerable risks were
anticipated in three broad categories as follows:
* Political: Instability and/or negotiation delays could significantly slow activities;



vi                                                   Implementation Completion Report
*  Managerial and Technical:  Slow consolidation of PECDAR (the main Palestinian
counterpart agency) and delays in establishing efficient systems and employing key
consultants could result in implementation delays; and
*  Program: (i) Implementation of program activities of questionable merit could undermine
program and hence project support, and (ii) weak local technical capacity and lack of foreign
technical responsiveness could delay implementation.
B.   Achievement of Objectives
5.   Physical Objectives:  These objectives were largely achieved, and in many cases
overachieved.
6.   Employment Objectives: The objectives were overachieved, with an estimated 12,000
man years of employment having been created against a target of 10,000.
7.   Capacity Building and Program  Implementation Objectives:   The successful
establishment of PECDAR as a capable implementation agency must be considered a major
achievement of the project. Though project completion was one year later than initially
scheduled, this is a considerable achievement when seen against the backdrop of considerable
political turmoil.
8.    Women and Gender: Though not targeted, there were significant achievements in
providing education benefits to girls. Women and girls also benefited considerably by being
relieved from the physical burden of water transportation in towns and villages.
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.   Project Preparation:  The project was initially scheduled to become effective on
June 1, 1994 but this was delayed until September 1994. The key delayfactors were: a) delays
in finalizing project preparation; and b) delays in the appointment of the management consultants
(MC), the latter being an effectiveness condition. Of the two delay factors, the former had the
more significant impact on project start up. The net effect of the above delays was about a 10-15
percent contribution to the time overrun.
10.  Project Implementation:   Initial project implementation  was also  slow  and
implementation quality left much to be desired. As noted above, the total time overrun was one
year. The key delay factors here were: a) initially weak contractor capacity; and b) weak project
supervision and reporting. The net effect of the above delays was about a 15-20 percent
contribution to the time overrun.
11. Cofinancing: The originally estimated project cost was US$128 million equivalent, with
the TFGWB providing US$30 million and cofinanciers providing the balance (US$98m
equivalent). Cofinancing was reduced to US$68 million and some funds arrived later than
anticipated. The net effect of the above was about a 20-30 percent contribution to the time
overrun.
12. Political Instability: The most significant manifestation of this was the frequent (13) and
often prolonged border closures totaling some 150 days and the continuing restrictions on
movement. These closures had a devastating effect on implementation, particularly in Gaza
during the first three years. Precise quantification is difficult, but 30-40 percent of the time delay
would not be an unrealistic estimate. In addition to time delays, the continuing restrictions on the
movement of people and goods caused increased expense to avoid the needed cars, drivers and
permit facilitation. The burden often led to duplication of facilities to the West Bank and Gaza.



Implementation Completion Report                                               vii
13. Project Management Capacity Building -- PECDAR and the MC Contract: After a
shaky start, PECDAR developed its own systems and procedures. It can now rightfully claim to
be the strongest public sector implementing agency in WBG, capable of developing and
managing its own multi-million dollar infrastructure development programs.
14. Conflicting Roles and Responsibilities - PECDAR, the Municipalities and the New
Ministries: The project design envisaged a key implementation role for the municipalities. This
strategy was not pursued by PECDAR. It chose instead to take on most of the implementation
responsibilities itself. Further, by year two of the project (1996) the PA infrastructure ministries
were established but PECDAR's role was never seriously reassessed as provided for in the EAP.
The current allocation of roles and responsibilities is chaotic and inefficient and needs
restructuring.
D.   Project Sustainability
15.  ERP-1 is adjudged to be sustainable. This is evidenced by four factors: it has been
followed by a second generation of six TFGWB supported projects and by several donor
infrastructure projects with an estimated value of more than US$0.5 billion equivalent; a
continuing pipeline of IDA projects builds on and learns from its experience, and the institutional
capacity built up under the project has served as the basis for further Palestinian project and
program development.
16. Procurement: This has been generally well handled by PECDAR. Bank Guidelines have
been observed throughout. PECDAR staff are now well versed in Bank procedures, a result of
training as well as long and close interaction with TFGWB supervision staff on the ground and
periodic training visits and seminars by the regional procurement advisor. The Danish cofinanced
Inter-Urban Roads project is the only area where there has been significant procurement
problems.
E. Disbursement, Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
17.  While there were some initial difficulties in this area, particularly in the first two years of
the project, these matters have been generally very well handled by PECDAR. With respect to
disbursements, despite many problems, 98 percent of TFGWB and 88 percent of donor funding
was disbursed by the scheduled closing date. All things considered, this is a creditable record --
among the best in the region.
F.   Bank Performance
18.  Identification and Preparation: Bank performance was highly satisfactory.
19.  Appraisal: This was successfully undertaken. If anything, the appraisal team were
somewhat over optimistic in its expectation with regard to speed of implementation considering
the known institutional weaknesses and the political environment. The identification and
specification of performance indicators is perhaps the one area which could have been
significantly improved.
20.  Supervision: Here the Bank did something relatively new, at least in the MNA region. It
completely decentralized supervision responsibility to the field. In almost all respects, much of
the projects success is directly attributable to this decision.



viii                                                   Implementation Completion Report
G.  Recipient Performance
21.  Preparation: This was satisfactory on the whole, having regard to the circumstances.
22.  Implementation: This was also satisfactory on the whole, despite a weak start and the
displacement of the municipalities. Perfornance was highly satisfactory with respect to
accounting, financial control and reporting, but it needs to be improved in the areas of strategic
planning, project identification and evaluation, and quality control.
23.  Covenant Compliance: This was very good on the whole, with audits and other reports
being of reasonable quality and provided on a timely basis.
24.  Overall: This was satisfactory and, as noted above, the successful consolidation of
PECDAR as a capable implementing agency must be considered a major achievement of the
project.
H.  Assessment of Project Outcome
25.  The project is rated highly satisfactory. All significant objectives were achieved in the face
of numerous technical, institutional and political obstacles. Given the difficult context in which
implementation occurred, this is considerable achievement.
1.   Future Outcome
26.  ERP-1 provided a foundation for, and has been followed by six projects: i) EHRP (FY96);
ii) ERP-2 (FY96); iii) MIDP-1 (FY97); iv) CDP-1 (FY97); v) B2000 (FY99); vi) CDP-2 (FY99).
A seventh project MIDP-2 is currently under preparation. ERP-1 has thus spawned a whole
generation of projects with increasing focus on institutional development and sustainability issues
as well as on poverty and gender - a significant legacy.
J.   Key Lessons Learned
27.  The following are the most important:
*  There must be strong ownership by and good dialogue with the borrower and its constituent
organizations if necessary implementation decisions are to be taken on a timely basis;
*  Capacity building takes a long time, requires much patience, and requires a disproportional
commitment of Bank staff time and supervision resources.
*  There is a tension between the need to build capacity and the need to get the job done
quickly, but longer term systemic development objectives should not be overlooked;
*  Adequate "slack" time must be provided for if the vicissitudes of border closures and
continuing movement restrictions (political risks) are to be weathered;
* The provision of operating support to implementing units is critical to establishing
managerial and technical capacity;
*  Close on-the-ground supervision and willingness to be flexible in adapting the project to local
realities is essential. It can also contribute significantly to mitigating risks.
Finally, it has been demonstrated that senior management's decision to decentralize
responsibilities to the field can yield significant benefits.
K.  Final Note
28.  ERP-1 has accomplished its objectives, and it has done so despite the very difficult
environment.



WEST BANK AND GAZA
FIRST EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Trust Fund Credit No. 26066)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background, Objectives, Description, Expected Benefits and Risks
1.   Background:  Following the signing of the historic September 1993 Declaration of
Principles (DOP), between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), a donor
conference was held in Washington, D.C. At this conference the donors expressed the view that
unless the Agreement was followed by rapid economic and social improvement for broad
segments of the Palestinian population political support for the Agreement may wither,
undermining the entire peace process. The Bank was asked to take the lead in developing a
program of support. It responded by developing the US$1.2 billion Emergency Assistance
Program for Occupied Territories (EAP: December 1993) and the supporting US$20 million
Technical Assistance Program for the Occupied Territories (TAP). In further support of the EAP,
the Bank itself contributed US$50 million from its net income to establish a special IDA
administered Trust Fundfor Gaza and the West Bank (TFGWB).' This Emergency Rehabilitation
Project (ERP-1) was the first Bank financed project to be funded from TFGWB, and thus was the
first in the Bank's own program of assistance to the Palestinian people.2
2.   Original Project Objectives:  ERP-1 aimed "to help alleviate the current crisis by
delivering widespread and tangible benefits to broad sectors of the Palestinian population as
quickly, equitably and effectively as possible " (SAR - p.4, para 12). It planned to do this by:
a)   Removing the most critical infrastructural bottlenecks, and improving essential
facilities and services;
b)   Creating productive employment; and
c)   Building capacity and providing institutional support in the area of project and
program management.
The third objective derives from the fact that when ERP-1 was being designed there were no
Palestinian organizations in WBG capable of acting as a borrower or of managing the proposed
project3. Accordingly, in October 1993 the Bank agreed with the PLO to help establish the
Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction (PECDAR) to act as
borrower and as project and program managers. This initiative was supported under the project
(SAR, p.l, paras. 1 & 13).
i Our earlier projects refer to "the Occupied Territories (OT)". The territorial designation was later changed to West
Bank and Gaza or "WBG". At the time of appraisal, WBG was not (and still is not) a member country of the Bank
and hence the Bank could not lend to it directly. The TFGWB was established as a vehicle for lending.
2 The current total stands at 15 projects at an estimated cost of about US$245 rnillion equivalent.
3 The PLO was still in Tunis. The "Territories" were governed by the Israeli Civil Administration, a department of
the Israeli Defense Forces.



2                                                               Implementation Completion Report
3.    In understanding the above objectives and assessing their achievement, it is important to
also understand the physical, economic, social and political context within which they were
established. We quote from the SAR:
From the analysis undertaken by IDA during 1993, it was concluded that the
economy of the OT was in crisis: income levels have stagnated for over a decade;
unemployment and underemployment were rising rapidly; the natural resource
base was threatened; and public infrastructure and social services were grossly
inadequate. It was further concluded that the resulting deep sense of despair
among broad segments of the population was a major impediment to achieving
peace and stability in the region, and that without the latter the prospects for
economic development were bleak. Thus, the cycle of despair, violence and
worsening economic conditions that has recurred over the last 10 years seemed
unending.
(SAR, p17, para 5)
In sum, WBG was in a very and pervasive deep crisis. It was necessary to act, and to act
quickly. And simultaneously it was necessary to build the institution capacity to act; and to
build this capacity quickly and from scratch.
4.    Project Description: ERP-1 aimed to help finance: a) the rehabilitation and improvement
of priority infrastructural services in three sectors: 4 education; water, wastewater and sanitation;
and roads; and b) institutional support, capacity building and project management. The
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component included the following: improvements to structures
(including school building, and road and drainage structures), networks, systems and plant;
provision of essential vehicles equipment, supplies (including laboratory equipment and text
books) and spares; and technical assistance for project preparation. The Institutional Support
Component included priority expenditures for: the establishment and operations of PECDAR;
incremental operating costs associated with the implementation of the project (project/contract
review, evaluation, monitoring, accounting, auditing and reporting); essential vehicles,
equipment, supplies and spares; and such other expenditures as IDA and PECDAR may from
time to time agree are essential for the effective execution of the project. A key part of the
institutional design was the establishment of a Project Management and Monitoring Office
(PMO) within PECDAR and the provision of support to the PMO through the employment of
competent internationally recruited management consultants (MC). The PMO would bear the
main responsibility for infrastructure project management (including sub-project identification,
preparation, implementation, payment and reporting). It was thus (and still is) the core
implementing department within PECDAR5.
5.    Expected Benefits: Apart from its contribution to improving infrastructure, the project
was expected to have a significantly positive impact on employment -- creating approximately
10,000 man-years of direct employment in construction. Subsidiary widespread benefits were to
include: improvements in public health and education services; protection and conservation of
sensitive and limited water resources; improvements in consumer and investor confidence;
strengthening of local institutions; and opportunities for private sector participation and
development through consulting, contracting and manufacturing inputs.
4 Originally, the project focussed on four sectors: education; power; water; wastewater and sanitation and roads.
However, power was later eliminated because Norway volunteered to take the lead in this sector and preferred to do
so on a bi-lateral basis with the Palestinian Authority (PA).
5 PECDAR, as initially designed, had six departmnent each headed by a director, as follows: I) Technical Assistance;
2) PMO; 3) Aide Coordination and Facilitation; 4) Economnic Policy; 5) Private Sector; 6) Finance and
Admninistration. PECDAR as a whole was headed by a Managing Director and a Deputy Managing Director, and
overseen by a Board appointed by the PLO.



Implementation Completion Report                                                 3
6.   Expected Risks: Considerable risks were anticipated in three broad categories as follows:
a) Political: instability and/or negotiation delays could significantly slow activities;
b) Managerial and Technical: slow consolidation of PECDAR and delays in establishing efficient
systems and employing key consultants could result in implementation delays; and c) Program:
(i) implementation of program activities of questionable merit could undermine program and
hence project support, and (ii) weak local technical capacity and lack of foreign technical
responsiveness could delay implementation. Political risks were deemed almost unmanageable.
Managerial and technical risks were to be minimized by providing appropriate technical
assistance to PECDAR. Program risks were also to be minimized by hiring competent foreign
consultants to help establish appropriate project screening and selection mechanisms; by
flexibility in program implementation; by establishing effective monitoring and control
mechanisms; and by close, responsive, on-ground project supervision.
B.   Achievements of Objectives:
7.   It is fair to say that project objectives have been substantially met. A summary of
objectives and achievements is presented in Exhibits 1 and 2, and is briefly discussed below.
When it is realized that no implementing institution existed prior to the project and that this
capacity had to be built from scratch in a very difficult political environment, the magnitude of
the achievements will be appreciated.
8.   Physical (see Exhibit 1): These objectives were largely achieved, and in some cases
overachieved. With respect to education, the construction of some 418 new classrooms and the
printing of some six million books for all the children in the 1995 school year had a major
positive impact on the quality of the education system. The first contributed significantly to
reducing overcrowding in Gaza. The second made Palestinian-oriented reading materials
available to school children for the first time in several decades. Some 411 km of new water lines
and 70 km of new sewage lines were also constructed, benefiting about 700,000 persons; and
about 270 km of main, municipal and village roads were built benefiting some 900,000 persons.
9.    But the numbers only tell one part of the story. When the project was started in 1994, the
road system was in shambles and many of the main streets in Gaza were unpassable during the
rainy season. Further, in some areas sewage was literally flowing in the streets and many areas
were without reliable water supplies. On the West Bank, most municipalities and villages had not
seen any significant infrastructure investment in decades. ERP-1 helped to change this. One
particular road stands out from the rest, the Salah Edin Road in Gaza. This major arterial road
serving the Gaza and Jabalia Municipalities has been transformed from one that was unpassable
during the rainy season to a high standard four lane dual carriage. The impact of the water and
sanitation projects have been less dramatic but the benefits have been no less tangible. The only
area in which objectives were not met was in developing operations and maintenance capacity in
the roads sector. This was due to a deliberate decision to focus the limited available resources on
the huge backlog in infrastructure provision and postpone the pursuit of this objective to future
projects.



4                                                                  Implementation Completion Report
Exhibit 1: Summary of Objectives and Achievements: Removing Critical Bottlenecks &
Improving Essential Facilities and Services
Obiective                              Target (Indicator)6      Achievement
i) Education
a) Sustain system; reduce over      * NA                     * Six new schools constructed and (70)
overcrowding                                              schools   improved/   rehabilitated,
providing a total of 418 new classrooms
accommodating some 30,000 children.
b) Upgradequalityand/oravailability   * NA                   * About six million new  books were
of teaching materials.                                    supplied.
c ) Beneficiaries                   * 150,000 children      * About  650,000  children  benefited
directly from the supply of books7 and
10,000  from   the   provision   of
classrooms.8
ii) Water and Sanitation
a) Rehabilitationandimprovementof  * NA                      * Water: 41 1km  of new  lines, three
networks and systems                                      reservoirs and  3  pumping  stations
* NA                      constructed
Sewage: 70km  of new  lines built,
together with two important pumping,
stations in Gaza
b ) Meeting the immediate 0 & M     * NA                     * Done.
needs
c ) Beneficiaries                   * Gaza: 460,000 persons   * Gaza: 500,000 persons
* West Bank: 60,000     * West Bank: 180,000 persons
* Villages/Municipalities:  * Villages/Municipalities:
NA                       Gaza: 19
West Bank: 16
iii) Road rehabilitation and improvement
a) Inter-Urban roads                * 100km                  * About 46km rehabilitated, including the
major 11.5km Salah Edin Road
improvement.
b) Municipal                        * 70km                   * About 200km.
c ) Village and village access      * 50km in 15 villages    * 10km in 5 villages.
d) 0 & M establish capability to    * NA                    * None.  (Objective  was  abandoned
undertake routine and periodic                             because the backlog was too great).
maintenance
e) Beneficiaries                    * Gaza: 550,000 persons   * Gaza: 500,000 persons.
* West Bank: 300,000    * West Bank: 400,000 persons.
persons
10.   It is perhaps worth noting that the physical and financial composition of the project
changed somewhat during implementation, with a significantly higher percentage of funds going
to roads at the expense of water and sanitation. This difference is partly explained by donor
preferences9 and partly by the fact that many roads contain water and wastewater in their
construction costs -- somewhat distorting the picture.10 Noteworthy increases were experienced
in the education sector partly as a result of additional Swiss funding. Finally, management costs
were reduced considerably due largely to the fact that most of the cost of the MC contract was
borne  by  TAP.   Finally, a  small labor-intensive  works component was added  during
implementation to help offset the unemployment impact of repeated border closures.
6 NA = Indicator not specifically identified in SAR.
7 All books for all grades in 1995; data from Ministry of Education.
S Assumes 45 children per classroom and two shifts in Gaza schools. Current average 45-50.
9 Particularly on the West Bank in the case of Denmark. The picture is also affected by the exit of the Arab fund
from the project.
10 A further factor was the difficulty in getting source permits for water on the West Bank due to Israeli controls.



Implementation Completion Report                                                           5
11.  Employment (see Exhibit 2): The objectives here were overachieved, with an estimated
12,000 man years of employment having been created against a target of 10,000.
12.  Capacity Building and Program Implementation (see Exhibit 2): The achievements
here were considerable, and PECDAR's successful establishment as an implementing agency
must be considered a major achievement of the project. PECDAR is very ably led, has developed
into one of the most effective implementing arms of the PA, and has been the principal
implementing agency for five subsequent TFGWB supported funded projects. Two departments
particularly stand out: PMO, and Accounting and Finance. With respect to implementation
effectiveness, the project has been completed successfully. Though completion is one year later
than initially scheduled, this delay must be seen against a backdrop of considerable political
turmoil (see discussion below).
Exhibit 2: Summary of Objectives and Achievements: Employment, Building Capacity &
Institutional Support
Objective                           Tareet (Indicator)"   Achievement
i)  Employment Generation           * 10,000 man years   * 12,000 man years
ii) Support the establishment operations    * NA       * Despite some initial problems, PECDAR
and development of PECDAR                            successfully established and is now, by a
significant margin, the strongest public
sector implementing agency in WBG;
iii) Ensure that project is efficiently &  * NA        * Despite a delay of one year,  Project
effectively implemented                              effectively implemented, in the face of
numerous problems and frequent border
closures.
13. Women and Gender -- Unanticipated Achievements: Although the project did not have
specific objectives in this area there were two noteworthy achievements. Thefirst is with respect
to education. Of the 418 primary school classrooms constructed, 158 were for girls and 70 were
co-educational. It is estimated that some 13,000 girls benefited directly from this provision,
having regard to the fact the schools are operated on a double shift basis and that classrooms
accommodate 40-50 children. While the benefits to boys were considerably higher than for girls,
this does not appear to reflect significant gender bias in sub-project sellection but the current
demand distribution. The national enrollment percentages for boys and girls are about the equal -
- 92%. The second area of significant benefits was in the supply of water and sanitation services.
It was not possible to quantify the benefits but it is well known that women and girls bear a
disproportionate share of the burden of transporting water from wells, tanks and stand pipes to
houses. This being the case, the improvements in the quantity, quality and reliability of water
supply services to towns and villages under the project disproportionately benefit women and
girls.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.  The most critical factors affecting the implementation of the project were:
Factor                                                    Risk Cateaorv
* Project Preparation: Initially weak capacity;          Management and Technical
* Project Implementation: Initially weak capacity;       Management and Technical
* Cofinancing: Reduction in the availability of funding;  Program
* Political Instability: Frequent Israeli border closures.  Political
" NA = Indicator not specifically identified in SAR.



6                                                          Implementation Completion Report
Each is discussed below.
15.  Project Preparation:  The project was initially scheduled to become effective on
June 1, 1994, but this was delayed until September 1994. The key delayfactors were: a) delays.in
finalizing project preparation; and b) delays in the appointment of the MC (Bechtel Engineers),
the latter being an effectiveness condition. Of the two delay factors, the former had the more
significant impact on project start up. The problem arose because of the Palestinian insistence on
only using local consultants for project preparation in a context of very weak development of the
engineering consulting profession in WBG. The result was initially slow preparation, and poor
quality in project analysis, engineering design, specification and contract documentation. The
price was paid in terms of constant design revisions; poor drainage design in the case of many
roads; structural over-design in the case of many schools; cost overruns; time overruns; and
contractors claims. These problems were largely overcome by the end of the second year. Since
then the consulting engineering profession has grown rapidly both in terms of numbers and
competence. This is largely as a result of the return of many capable Palestinian engineers from
the Gulf and elsewhere; the continuity of work opportunities provided to the profession as a result
of EAP; and Bank insistence in improving standards and practices and adopting the Bank's
standard procurement documentation. This rapid development of the local engineering profession
must be considered one of the important un-anticipated benefits of the project. 12 With respect to
the MC, their appointment was delayed by about three months. The net effect of the above delays
was about a 10-15 percent contribution to the time overrun."3
16.  Project Implementation:    Initial project implementation  was  also  slow  and
implementation quality left much to be desired. The key factors here were: a) initially weak
contractor capacity; and b) initially weak project supervision and reporting. With respect to the
former, although WBG had many skilled construction technicians (having been very active in the
construction sector in Israel over many years), contract management and attention to quality was
weak. The price was paid here in terms of time and cost overruns; and poor construction quality
in the initial period. The latter factor led to frequent rejection of works on the two first batches of
sub-projects and subsequent disagreements between PECDAR and the contractors. With respect
to project supervision and reporting, significant problems arose between PECDAR and the MC
who was responsible for providing technical support to PECDAR in this area (see later
discussion). As a result effective project management systems were not put in place until well
into year 2 of the project. Fortunately this problem was resolved (with the termination of the MC
contract) and PECDAR succeeded in establishing considerable capacity largely on its own -- by
itself a highly significant, if un-anticipated, achievement of the project. The net effect of the
above delays was about a 15-20 percent contribution to the time overrun.
17.  Cofinancing: The originally estimated project cost was US$128 million equivalent, with
the TFGWB providing US$30 million and cofinanciers providing the balance (US$98m
equivalent). Cofinancing was reduced to US$68 million when the Arab Fund decided to enter
into a bi-lateral agreement with the PA.14 It was further reduced by the decision of the Kuwait
Fund to provide only US$2 million of an anticipated US$10 million contribution."5 Further
changes in the availability of funding arose from currency fluctuations (on the Swiss Franc and
the Danish Kroner particularly), and from an increase in the Swiss contribution from
12 Currently Palestinian engineering firms are capable of handling 70-80 percent of the design supervision workload.
This must be compared with 20-25 percent maximum at the beginning of ERP-1.
3 It is not easy to precisely quantify the impact of each factor on the time overrun. The numbers given here and
below are somewhat subjective but are believed to reasonably accurate. Also, the data do not permiit us to estimate
the cost impact.
14 The timing of the Arab Fund decision is not clear but it was made in late 1995. They went on to finance most of the
original items but on a parallel basis.
15 Ibid.



Implementation Completion Report                                                 7
US$8 million to US$12 million approximately. On the whole though, the cofinancing effort was
very successful. The Bank's US$30 million leveraged twice that amount in donor contributions.
The managerial response to these changes in the availability of cofinancing was a downward
adjustment in the scope of the works. Further significant impacts arose from initial delays in the
transfer of some cofinancing resources to the project and the consequent delays in the start of
project implementation. The net effect of all of the above was about a 20-30 percent contribution
to the time overrun.
18.  Political Instability: The most significant cause of delay was the frequent and often
prolonged border closures --some 13 closures of varying duration totaling about 150 days. These
closures had a devastating effect on implementation, particularly in the first three years. The
main impact came in the form of shortages of building materials -- sometimes for prolonged
periods -- and consequently in contractors' claims. Since most building materials have to be
imported into Gaza, and since Gaza accounted for some 60 percent of the project by value (100
percent in the case of the TFGWB supported component), the impact of repeated border closures
on project completion was considerable. Again, precise quantification is difficult, but 30-40
percent of the time delay would not be an unrealistic estimate. In addition to the total closures, a
continuing program of restriction of movement of goods and people has led to both delays and
increased costs attributable to the necessity of compliance with permit requirements. Extra
vehicles, employees and duplication between West Bank and Gaza became necessary and
permanent features of implementation.
19. Project Management Capacity Building -- PECDAR and the MC Contract: As noted
above, the MC contract was terminated prematurely. Depending on the point of view, this
contract can be seen either as an abject failure or a foundation for success. The employment of
the MC was a critical part of the project design and a condition of effectiveness. This contract
was terminated by PECDAR in mid-1996 after consultation with the Bank, leaving many critical
tasks unachieved. The MC were supposed to have assisted PECDAR to develop project selection
and evaluation procedures as well as to institutionalize effective procurement, project
management, monitoring and reporting systems. While considerable work was in fact done by
the MC, they failed in the key task of institutionalizing these procedures and systems within
PECDAR. The reasons for failure are many, but the key ones seem to be poor choice of project
leadership by the MC reinforced by a wide gap in the culture of the two organizations. There was
very little real communication between the two organizations; the MC was unable to effectively
engage PECDAR's engineering and accounting staff in a meaningful way; and PECDAR often
felt that the MC was not responsive to their needs or to local conditions.
20.  The other, more positive, point of view is that partly in response to the MC's experience
and partly out of sheer necessity PECDAR began, painfully and haltingly at first, to develop their
own systems and procedures. In doing so, they built upon the work done by and experience
gained through the MC. The result is an organization which has undergone considerable
learning and can rightfully claim to be the strongest public sector implementing agency in WBG.
PECDAR is now capable of developing and managing its own multi-million dollar infrastructure
development programs, and is in fact now doing so with the EU, EIB and OPEC. Success?
Certainly! While the MC contract did not achieve its objectives, the learning succeeded, and the
latter is what development is all about.
21.  None of the above should be taken to mean that there are no problems. PECDAR still has
a considerable way to go in becoming an efficient project development and management
organization. Much remains to be done particularly with respect to strategic planning; project
selection and evaluation; design and constriction quality; contract documentation; and project
monitoring and review. But a great deal has been achieved in a relatively short time in a very
difficult environment.



8                                                            Implementation Completion Report
22. Conflicting Roles and Responsibilities -- PECDAR, the Municipalities and the New
Ministries: The project design envisaged the following:
To the extent possible, PMO would rely on existing institutions and agencies --
mainly the Municipalities -- to execute sub-projects; and, in order to expedite
project implementation, Municipalities would be provided with technical support
and given considerable autonomy in contracting for works costing US$0.25
million or less. This limit would be reviewed periodically by PECDAR and
adjusted upwards as Municipalities demonstrated effective managerial capacity.
(ERP-1, SAR, p.5, para. 15)
and:
Municipalities and villages would be responsible for implementing activities for
municipal road and drainage, water, wastewater, and domestic sanitation, and solid
waste management. In addition, municipalities and villages could be involved in
modest-sized projects for power system and rural roads rehabilitation. They
would be assisted in this by local consultants selected from the Consultants' Panel.
In undertaking these responsibilities, municipalities and villages would be required
to identify, select, prepare, bid, contract, and supervise projects to be executed by
qualified contractors. Detailed procedures would first have to be developed by the
Managing Consultants and PECDAR.
(EAP, p. 114, para. 4.11)
The above strategy was not pursued by PECDAR. It chose instead to take on most of the
implementation responsibilities itself, paying scant regard to the protestations of the
municipalities. Initially, there was some justification for this as time was of the essence and most
municipalities were indeed very weak.16 But as the years went by the justification for not fully
involving the municipalities in implementation grew weaker, certainly with respect to the four or
five largest ones.
23.  Further, by year two of the project the newly formed PA mninistries began to be established
and PECDAR's role relative to the new Infrastructure ministries (works, education, housing,
energy) was never seriously reassessed as provided for in the EAP which stated:
In addition to its aid management and investment implementation functions,
PECDAR is intended for a transitional period to also provide the nucleus for
econormic policy formulation, overall expenditure programnming, training policies
and other functions of economic self-government. As and when independent self-
governing institutions are created for these purposes, PECDAR will transfer the
corresponding functions and staff to those institutions.
(EAP, p. I I 1, para. 4.1)
24.  No reassignment has even taken place and, no functions or staff have been transferred -- at
least not formally." We have in the above, it seems, a classic case of goal displacement, with
PECDAR justifying its role long after its original purpose had been served, i.e., to act as a
16 In this context, and given the slow start up of the project, the IDA acquiesced.
'' To be sure PECDAR has lost some functions to other organizations but not as a result of any reassignment or
formal decision.



Implementation Completion Report                                                     9
"transitional" mechanism.'" IDA is not blameless with respect to the above. It failed to engage
the PA effectively on PECDAR's role in the post transition period.'9
25.  To be fair to PECDAR, its case is not without merit. It has worked long and hard and, as
noted above, has developed very valuable capacity while many other agencies and institutions
have been neglected and remain weak. Further, from the point of view of efficiency it is by no
means self evident that responsibilities for infrastructure should be widely dispersed across many
ministries and municipalities. In a relatively small territory a case can be made for a degree of
centralization. The point, however, is that the current system is chaotic and inefficient. There is
an urgent and long overdue need to reassess the distribution of technical roles and responsibilities
across the PA and to establish a rational course for the future.
D.   Project Sustainability
26.  As an emergency operation, sustainability was not a critical project objective. Yet ERP-1
was designed, and is adjudged to be sustainable. Sustainability is evidenced by four factors: i) it
has been followed by six TFGWB supported projects which have built on its foundations and
drawn on the managerial capabilities developed under it; ii) it has been followed by several donor
infrastructure projects with an estimated value of more than US$0.5 billion equivalent; iii) the
latest set of TFGWB supported projects (MIDP-1 & B2000 and the upcoming MIDP-2), building
on ERP-l's foundation, have moved from emergency approaches into longer-term policy reform
and capacity building; and iv) the institutional capacity built up at PECDAR under the project has
been considerable, and has served as the basis for further Palestinian project and program
development.
27.  Going beyond the narrow confines of the project, three further factors can be cited. These
are: i) the considerable development of local consulting capability already noted above; and ii)
the considerable development of local contracting capability. When ERP-1 started, there were
few local contractors capable of effectively undertaking works greater than US$2-3 million. Now
there are several. And the US$18 million Salah Edin Road contract, originally programmed to be
executed by foreign contractors, after some delay and restructuring was effectively executed by
local ones. Finally, a number of the larger contractors, particularly in Gaza, have invested their
profits in the acquisition of new equipment and the manufacturing of building components (pipes,
manholes, etc.) previously imported from Israel. While it would be unrealistic to claim
that ERP-I is solely responsible for the build up of this capacity, it can certainly take credit for
leading the way in opening up opportunities for local consultants and contractors.
28.  Procurement: This has been generally well handled by PECDAR. Bank Guidelines have
been observed throughout. PECDAR staff are now well versed in Bank procedures, a result of
training as well as long and close interaction with TFGWB supervision staff on the ground and
period training visits and seminars by the Regional Procurement Advisor. Procurement planning
has also improved considerably from the early years of the project. This has resulted in more
competitive bidding. For example, prices for road construction have fallen by about one third in
real terms when compared with the first year of the project. Another notable success was in the
procurement of school books in 1996. In this case, careful ICB packaging led to highly
competitive prices from regional and local printers and help lay a base for the further
development of this industry in WBG. With respect to procurement experience, two more issues
are worthy of note: i) ICB was reduced significantly due largely to the decision to bid the Salah
Edin Road project locally; and ii) a far higher percentage than planned was procured using NCB
18 PECDAR's transitional role is specifically stated in its establishment documents. These documents also set out its
operating modalities. These modalities are now observed mainly in the breach (Board meetings, project approvals,
accounts, etc.).
19 This is now an issue on IDA's agenda, and is being currently addressed in dialogue with the PA.



10                                                    Implementation Completion Report
procedures -- generally increasing competitiveness and building local capacity.20 With respect to
originally proposed non-Bank financed items, most of these were actually financed under NCB
procedures. There was one significant exception: the Danish cofinanced inter-urban roads
contract on the West Bank, and this turned out to be very problematic.
29.  The inter-urban roads project is also the one area where there have been major procurement
problems. In fact there has been a long outstanding dispute between PECDAR and the contractor
which was still unresolved at the time of project closure. The issue involves a claim of
US$9.6 million on a US$10 million contract. This claim has been reviewed by the Danish project
consultants and also by independent international consultants hired by PECDAR in consultation
with the Bank. The latter consultants found the contractor's claim to be almost completely
unjustified, and a maximum award of about US$0.6 million has been recommended. This
recommendation has been accepted by PECDAR, the Bank and the Danish Government
(DANIDA). It has not been accepted by the contractors, who have instead requested arbitration.
In view of the fact that resolution of this matter could take sometime, it has been decided to close
this cofinancing account and place the undisbursed balance (about (DIkkO.63million) into an
escrow account with PECDAR for a period of two years pending settlement.
E.   Disbursement, Reporting, Accounting and Auditing
30.  While there were some initial difficulties in this area, particularly in the first two years of
the project, these matters have been generally very well handled by PECDAR. Indeed,
PECDAR's Finance and Accounting Department has performed exceedingly well. They have
fully internalized TFGWB procedures; developed and installed efficient accounting and
management information systems; maintained good controls on the expenditure of funds; are able
to provide management and the Bank with accurate and up-to-date information; and have
generally provided TFGWB with acceptable and timely audits. Here great credit is due to the
management and staff of the department. They have shown considerable initiative and have
exerted tremendous efforts and now have a capacity which is probably unrivalled in the PA.
With respect to disbursements, these fell short of target in the first year, exceeded the target in the
second as the project began to accelerate, and began slowing down as problems of closure and
late cofinancing began to take a toll. However, at the scheduled closing date (end FY98) the
TFGWB share had been 98 percent disbursed and cofinancing had been 88 percent disbursed. All
things considered, this is a creditable disbursement record -- among the best in the region.
F.   Bank Performance
31.  Identification and Preparation: Bank performance was highly satisfactory. The project
was quickly identified and prepared following the first mission in late October 1993. Preparation
was done expeditiously and in close consultation with Palestinian counterparts during the first
three months of 1994. This was accomplished without formal governmental structures being in
place in WBG and in a context of very weak local consulting and administrative capacity.
PECDAR had been formed and the heads of departments had been appointed, but it had neither
offices nor staff.
32.  Appraisal: This was successfully undertaken in a context identical to that outlined above.
To a very large extent the appraisal team accurately pin-pointed the critical issues and identified
the critical risks. Very few significant issues materialized during implementation that were not
anticipated and documented at appraisal (see sections A & B above). If anything, the appraisal
team were somewhat over optimistic in its expectation with regard to speed of implementation
having regard known institutional weaknesses and political complications. The identification and
20 The high political risk seems also to have discouraged international contractors from bidding on relatively small
contracts.



Implementation Completion Report                                                11
specification of performance indications is perhaps the one area which could have been
significantly improved.
33. Supervision: Here the Bank did something relatively new, at least in the MNA region. It
completely decentralized supervision responsibility to the field. In almost all respects this
decision must be adjudged to have been a wise one. It is doubtful that the achievements recorded
here could have been accomplished if the traditional period HQ supervision visit strategy had
been adopted. The justification given for the strategy was the urgency of the task, the weakness
of the borrower, and the uncertainty of the environment. In such a context, close TFGWB
supervision was deemed to be warranted. On all of the above counts the decision proved to be
sound and the payoff obvious and tangible. Apart from the overall achievements noted above,
the following should be highlighted:
*     Dialogue with Client: Excellent relations were developed. This facilitated the easy
resolution of problems and the efficient preparation of follow-up projects;
*     Responsiveness and Support to Client: Proximity allowed for very quick response to
client's needs, efficient training in the internalization of Bank Guidelines, and advice on a
whole range of practical and technical matters. This greatly assisted in building local
capacity.
*     Flexibility: Proximity and close relations with the client allowed for quick responses in
adapting the project deal with various crises and changing priorities. It also enabled the
adaption of the project to capacity of the local consulting and contracting industry
thereby building capacity while accomplishing physical and financial objectives.
*     Risk Mitigation: Proximity to and detailed knowledge of the local situation facilitated
the anticipation of threats and quick response when they arose.
34 If there was a weak link, it probably was with respect to reporting to HQ. Because the
supervision team was highly focussed on accomplishments on the ground and sometimes
neglected to keep HQ fully informed of progress in the field. This was reflected in the sometimes
late completion of 590's and other Bank (IDA) reporting requirements. On the whole though, it
should be said that supervision was at least satisfactory.
35. A final point: the issue of reassessing PECDAR's role (discussed above). In the early
stages of the project, the supervision team concurred with PECDAR's decision to play the central
role in implementation because the municipalities were weak and the project was behind
schedule. As PECDAR began to develop capacity and project implementation began to pick up,
the Bank (IDA) relaxed its position with respect to the original institutional design and never
revisited the issue.
G. Recipient Performance
36. This has been discussed at length in previous sections and thus only a summary is provided
here as follows:
*     Preparation: Satisfactory on the whole, having regard to the circumstances;
*     Implementation: Satisfactory on the whole, despite a weak start and the displacement of
the municipalities. Highly satisfactory with respect to accounting, financial control and
reporting. Needs to be improved in the areas of strategic planning, project selection and
evaluation and quality control.



12                                                    Implementation Completion Report
*     Covenant Compliance: Very good, on the whole, with audits and other reports being of
reasonable quality and provided on a timely basis
*     Overall: In the circumstances, PECDAR's performance has been very creditable, and its
effective establishment of a capable implementing agency is a major achievement of the
project.
H.  Assessment of Project Outcome
37.  The project is rated highly satisfactory. The basis for this rating has been discussed at
length above and is thus not reiterated here. All critical objectives were attained and this was
done in the face of numerous technical, institutional and political obstacles. Given the difficult
context in which implementation occurred, this is considerable achievement.
I.   Future Outcome
38.  ERP-1 provided a foundation for, and has been followed by six projects: i) EHRP (FY96);
ii) ERP-2 (FY96); iii) MIDP-1 (FY97); iv) CDP-1 (FY97); v) B2000 (FY99); and vi) CDP-2
(FY99). A seventh project MIDP-2 is currently under preparation. ERP-1 has thus spawned a
whole generation of projects with increasing focus on institutional development and sustainability
issues as well as on poverty and gender - a fairly secure legacy.
J.   Key Lessons Learned
39.  During the course of implementing ERP-1, the following lessons have been learned:
* There must be strong ownership by and good dialogue with the borrower and its constituent
organizations if necessary implementation decisions are to be taken on a timely basis;
* Capacity building takes a long time, requires much patience and requires a disproportional
commitment of Bank staff time and supervision resources;
* There is an inherent tension between the need to build capacity and the need to get the job
done. However, the longer tern systematic issues should not be overlooked;
*  Adequate "slack" time must be provided for if the vicissitudes of border closures (political
risks) are to be weathered;
*  The provision of operating support to implementing units is critical to establishing
managerial and technical capacity;
* Close on-the-ground supervision and willingness to be flexible in adapting the project to
local realities is essential. It can also contribute significantly to mitigating risks.
Finally, it has been demonstrated that senior management's decision to decentralize
responsibilities to the field can yield significant benefits.



Implementation Completion Report                                                            13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES



14                                                                              Implementation Completion Report
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                     Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                               E                al             E l
Sector policies                                      E               El               0                 0
Financial objectives                                                 E
Institutional development                             0              E               EEl
Physical objectives                                   0: E                           E                  
Poverty reduction                                    E               E               El                 0
Gender issues                                        E               E               E                  0*
Other social objectives                              E                0              0                  
Environmental objectives                               l             E               El                 0
Public sector management                             E               E               E                  0*
Private sector development                           E               E               E                  E*
Other (specify)                                      E               E               E                  0
B. Project sustainability                                           Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
0               0                0
C. Bank performance                                           Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                                       0                El               El
Preparation assistance                                               El               El               E
Appraisal                                                             0                0                0
Supervision                                                          E                E                 0
D. Borrower performance                                      Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                                                            R0               El
Implementation                                                       E                 0                El
Covenant compliance                                                  E                 E                E
E. Assessment of outcome                      Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
unsatisfactory
*While these were not key objectives, there were significant achievements here (see sections "B" & "C" of text).



Implementation Completion Report                                                             15
Table 2: Related Trust Fund Credits
No. Loan/Credit & Title    Purpose                                         approval      Status
Following operations
1.  Education and Health    Follow-up project to ERP-1, focussing on urgent   FY/96   On-going
Rehabilitation Project   rehabilitation of health and education facilities.
(CR # 26065).
2.  Second Emergency       Continuation of ERP 1, focussing mainly for roads and  FY/96    On-going; due to
Rehabilitation Project    water supplies; includes a component for employment  close end June
(CR # 26058).         generating micro projects to offset the impact of        1999
closures.
3.  Municipal Infrastructure   Development of ERP-1 and of ERP2 infrastructure  FY/97    On-going
Development Project-l   projects, but with a major new initiative focus on
(CR # 26057).         capacity building at the national level and in selected
municipalities.
4.  Community              Rehabilitation and development of infrastructure and FY/97  On-going
Development Project-l   social services in the commnunities and employment
(CR # 24112).         generation.
5.  Bethlehem 2000         Continuation of MIDP-1 type Infrastructure and   FY/99   On-going
Project (CR # 26046).    municipal capacity project, but with a major focus on
capacity building in Bethlehem Area to promote
Tourism and to initiate reform in the area of Cultural
Heritage Preservation.
6.  Community              Continuation of CDP-1 with concentration on poor FY/99    Due to start in
Development Project-2   and marginalized communities including refugee         May 99
(CR # 26044).         camps.
7.  Municipal Infrastructure   Continuation  of MIDP-1, with  a  new  road  FY/2000  Under
Development Project-2  maintenance   management  capacity   building           preparation
(CR # 58683).         component in the MoPW.



16                                                                       Implementation Completion Report
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                                Date planned                  Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              10/04/1993                  10/04/1993
Preparation
Appraisal                                           10/ 10 /1993                 10/10/1993
Negotiations                                         03/16/1994                  03/16/1994
Board presentation                                      05/26/1994                  05/ 26/ 1994
Signing                                                                             09/ 07/1994
Effectiveness                                           06/01/1994                  09/09/1994
Midterm review (if applicable)                          01/15/1996                  01/15/1996
Project completion                                      06/30/1997                  06/30/1998
Loan closing                                            12/30/1997                  12/31/1998
Table 4: Trust Fund Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual-(US$ million)
FY/94      FY/95       FY/96       FY/97       FY/98       FY/99
TFGWB
Appraisal estimate                 1.0        7.0         22.3        30.0        30.0       30.0
Actual                             0.0         8.8        18.9        28.6        29.4       30.0
Actual as % of original estimnate  0%         126%        85%        95%         98%         100%
Cofinancing
Estimates (revised)l/              0.0        14.6        47.0        63.5        63.5       63.5
Actual                             0.0        17.7        39.9        52.5        55.6       63.5
Actual as % of revised estimate   100%        121%        85%         83%         88%        100%
Total
Estimates (revised)                1.0        21.6        69.3        93.5        93.5       93.5
Actual                             0.0        26.5        58.8        81.1        85.0       93.5
Actual as % of revised estimate    0%         123%        85%         87%         91%        100%
1/ No initial projections were made for cofinancing. The data shown here were calculated by applying the original TFGWB
disbursement percentages to the available cofinancing. The latter was significantly less than the original cofinancing
estimate of US$98m.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                            17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Objective                               Target (Indicator)                      Achievement
A) Removing Critical Bottlenecks & Improving Essential Facilities and Services
i) Education
b) Sustain system; reduce over      * NA                    * Six new schools were constructed and (70) school
overcrowding                                               were improved/ rehabilitated, providing a total of
418 new classrooms some 30,000 children.
c) Upgrade quality and/or availability                      * About six million new books were supplied.
of teaching materials.
d) Beneficiaries                    * 150,000 children      * About 650,000 children benefited directly from
the supply of books and 10,000 from the provision
of classrooms.
ii) Water and Sanitation
b) Rehabilitation and improvement of   * NA                 * Water: 411km of new lines, three reservoirs and 3
networks and systems                                       pumping stations constructed
* NA                   * Sewage: 70km of new lines built, together with
two important pumping stations in Gaza
c ) Meeting the immediate 0 & M     * NA                    * Done
needs
d) Beneficiaries                    * Gaza: 460,000 persons  * Gaza: 500,000 persons
* West Bank: 60,000     * West Bank: 180,000 persons
Villages/Municipalities  * Villages/Municipalities:
:NA                     Gaza: 19
West Bank: 19
iii) Road rehabilitation and improvement
b) Inter-Urban roads                 * 100km                 * About 46km rehabilitated, including the major
11.5km Salah Edin Road improvement.
c) Municipal                         * 70km                  * About200km.
d) Village and village access        * 50km in 15 villages   * 10km in 5 villages.
e) 0 & M establish capability to     * NA                   * None. (Objective was abandoned because the
undertake routine and periodic                             backlog was too great).
maintenance
f) Beneficiaries                    * Gaza: 550,000 persons  * Gaza: 500,000 persons.
* West Bank: 300,000    * West Bank: 400,000 persons.
persons
B) Creating Productive Employment
Employment Generation              * 10,000 man years      * 12,000 man years
C) Building Capacity & Institutional
support in the area of project and
program management.
i)  Support the establishment operations &   * NA               * Despite  some  early  problems,  PECDAR
development of PECDAR                                         successfully established & is now, by a significant
margin, the strongest public sector implementing
agency in WBG;
ii)  Ensure that project is efficiently &  * NA                 * Despite a delay of one year, Project effectively
effectively implemented                                       implemented, in the face of numerous problems &
frequent border closures.
NA = Not specifically stated at approval.



18                                                                      Implementation Completion Report
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)                   Actual (US$m)1'
% of                                   % of
Local  Foreign  Total  Total           Local  Foreign  Total  Total
Education                          9.1      7.9     17.0    13%           8.9       8.5     17.4   19%
Power 2                            3.0      5.3     8.3    6.5%           0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0
Water supply & wastewater          15.0    17.6    32.6   25.5%           9.7      11.5    21.2   23%
Roads (total)                     21.6    19.8    41.4    33%             33.6     16.9    50.5   54%
a) Inter-Urban roads             5.9      9.7     12.6    10%           18.5      9.5     28.0   30%
b) Municipal roads3'             15.7    13.1    28.8    23%            15.1      7.4     22.5   24%
Labor intensive projects            -        -       -        -           0.9       0.3      1.2    1%
(Emergency employment
generation)4'
Sub-Total                         48.7    50.6    99.3    78%           53.1       37.2    90.3   97%
PECDAR's incremental operation     3.2      3.7     6.9      5%           2.9       0.3     3.2    3%
expenses &Institutional support
Base cost                         51.9    57.3    106.2   83%             55.7     37.8    93.5   100%
Contingencies                      10.7    11.1    21.8    17%            0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0
Total                             62.6    68.4    128.0  100%             55.7     37.8    93.5   100%
1/ Total amount of funding reduced by short falls in cofinancing.
2/ Power eliminated from project by agreement with PA.
3/ Includes a significant percentage of water and wastewater.
4/ Introduced during implementation in response to jobs crisis triggered by border closures.
Table 6B: Project Financing"
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                   Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Source            Local  Foreign   Total    % of               Local   Foreign   Total    % of
costs   costs             Total             costs    costs              Total
TFGWVB             14.6    15.4    30.0    23%                  19.8      10.2     30.0     32%
Cofinancing        48.0    50.0      98.0    77%                35.5      27.6     63.5     68%
Total              62.6    65.4    128.0   100%                 55.3      37.8     93.5    100%
1/ Reductions in cofinancing due to reduction in Kuwaiti Fund contribution and Arab Fund's decision to act bilaterally. The
Kuwait contribution was reduced from an anticipated US$10 rnillion equivalent to US$2 rnillion. The Arab Fund provided
US$16 mnillion equivalent on a parallel basis rather than the anticipated US$30 million on a joint basis.



Table 6C: Project Financing Plan By Donor & Sector
Original (US$)                                                  Actual (US$)
Region & Sector                   TFGWB Danish  Swiss  Saudi  Arab  Kuwait Total                 TFGWB  Danish  Swiss   Saudi  Arab  Kuwait Total  t
Gaza
Education                            6.4      -       4.5      -       -      1.1    12.0           4.6       -      4.3       -       -        -      8.9 
Water, Wastewater & Sanitation       4.4      8.8      -      3.5     3.1      -      19.8          3.6      8.5      -        -       -        -      12.1
Inter-Urban Roads                    7.7       -       -      2.8              -      10.5          5.3       -       -       9.3      -        -      14.6
Municipal Roads                      8.0       -       -      5.7     4.9      -      18.6          12.1      -       -       2.3      -        -      14.4   4
Labor intensive projects (Emergency   -        -       -       -       -       -        -           1.2       -       -        -        -       -      1.2    0
employment generation)                                                                                                                                       a:
Sub-Total                         26.5     8.8     4.5    12.0    8.0       1.1    60.9          26.8      8.5     4.3     11.6    0.0      0.0    51.2   0
West Bank
Education                             -        -       -       -       -      8.5      8.5           -        -      6.4       -       -       2.1     8.5
Power                                 -        -       -       -      10.0     -      10.0           -        -       -        -       -        -      0.0
Water, Wastewater&Sanitation          -       5.3     1.5     7.8     4.7      -      19.6           -        -      1.1      8.0      -        -      9.1
Inter-Urban Roads                     -       4.7      -       -       -       -      4.7            -       11.1     -       2.3      -        -      13.4
Municipal Roads                       -        -      1.2     9.0     6.0      -      16.2           -        -        -      8.1       -       -      8.1
Sub-Total                          -       10.0    3.0    16.8    20.7    8.5    59.0             0.0     11.1    7.5      18.4    0.0      2.1    39.1
West Bank and Gaza
Education                            6.4       -      4.5      -       -      9.6    20.5           4.6       -      10.7      -        -      2.1    17.4
Power                                 -        -       -       -       10      -      10.0           -        -       -        -       -        -      0.0
Water, Wastewater& Sanitation        4.4     14.1    1.8    11.3    7.8        -      39.4          3.6      8.5      1.1     8.0      -        -      21.2
Inter-Urban Roads                    7.7      4.7      -      2.8      -       -      15.2          5.3      11.1     -       11.6     -        -     28.0
Municipal Roads                      8.0       -      1.2    14.7    10.9      -      34.8          12.1      -       -       10.4     -        -     22.5
Labor intensive projects (Emergency   -        -       -       -       -       -       -            1.2       -       -        -       -        -      1.2
employment generation)
Sub-Total                         26.5    18.8    7.5    28.8    28.7    9.6    119.9            26.8     19.6    11.8    30.0    0.0       2.1    90.3
PECDAR: 1 incremental operation      3.5      1.2     0.5     1.2     1.3     0.4     8.1           3.2       -       -        -       -        -      3.2
cost &Institutional support
Total                             30.0    20.0    8.0    30.0    30.0    10.0   128.0            30.0     19.6    11.8      30      0.0     2.1    93.5
1/ Project Management



Table 6D: Project Financing by Donor, Sector & No. of Projects (Actual)
Contribution US$m                                     Number of Sub-Projects Iniplemented
Region/Sector                              TFGWB   Danish   Swiss   Saudi  Kuwait  Total                 TFGWB"  Danish   Swiss2'   Saudi  Kuwait  Total
Gaza
Education                                     4.6         -       4.3       -       0.0       8.9            it          -          5        -         -        16
Water, wastewater & sanitation                3.6        8.5                -        -       12.1            15          10         -        -         -        25
Inter-Urban roads                             5.3         -        -       9.3       -       14.6            10          -          -        5         -        15
Municipal roads                               12.1                 -       2.3       -       14.4            23          -          -        3         -        26
Labor intensive projects (Emergency           1.2         -        -        -        -        1.2            1                      -        -         -I
employment generation)
Sub-Total                                26.8        8.5      4.3     11.6      0.0      51.2            60          10         5        8         0        83
West Bank
Education                                      -          -       6.4       -       2.1       8.5            -           -         11        -         9        20
Water, wastewater & sanitation                 -          -       1.1      8.0       -        9.1            -           -          4        16        -        20
Inter-Urbanroads                               -         11.1      -       2.3       -       13.4            -           4          -        5                  9
Municipal roads                                -          -        -       8.1       -        8.1            -           -          -        8         -         8
Sub-Total                                 0.0       11.1      7.5     18.4      2.1      39.1            0           4         15        29        9        57
West Bank & Gaza
Education                                     4.6        0.0      10.7    0.0       2.1      17.4            11          -         16        -         9        36
Water, wastewater & sanitation                3.6        8.5      1.1      8.0      0.0      21.2            15          10         4        16        0        45
Inter-Urbanroads                              5.3        11.1     0.0     11.6      0.0      28.0            10          4          -        10        0        24
Municipal roads                               12.1       0.0      0.0      10.4     0.0      22.5            23          -          -        11        0        34
Labor intensive projects (emergency           1.2         -        -        -        -        1.2             1          -          -        -         -         I
employment generation)
Sub-Total                                26.8       19.6      11.8    30.0      2.1      90.3            60         14         20        37        9       140
PECDAR:3' incremental operation               3.2         -        -        -        -        3.2           NA           -          -         -        -       NA
expenses & institutional support
TOTAL                                    30.0       19.6      11.8    30.0      2.1      93.5            60         14         20        37        9       140
I/ IncludesoneinaterialssupplycontractsforeducationmaterialsinGaza.
1/ Includes one materials supply contracts for education mnaterials in Gaza.
2/ Includes two materials supply contracts for education naterials in West Bank.
3/ Project Management.                                                                                                                                                  N0



Table 6E: Project Costs (Procurement)"
Items                                                               Appraisal estimate (US$M)9                               Actual(US$M)3'
ICB    NCB    Other   NIF4'    Total                    ICB    NCB    Other    Total
1. Civil Works
Gaza                                                       9.0    28.4      3.0       9.4       49.8               2.2    45.6        -       47.8
(6.3)5' (15.0)6/  (2.3)7             (23.6)                     (26.0)             (26.0)
West Bank                                                   -       -       0.0      39.5       39.5               10.4    24.0       -       34.4
2. Vehicles Equipment, Supplies8'
a) Gaza                                                    0.9     0.2       0.2      6.5       7.8                2.1      0.9       -        3.0
(0.6)   (0.1)   (0.1)9I              (0.8)                      (0.9)              (0.9)
b) WestBank                                                 -        -        -       16.1      16.1               2.9      1.1       -        4.0
c) Institutional Support and Project Management            0.1       -      0.1        -        0.2                 -        -       0.1       0.1
(0.1)            (0.1)               (0.2)                               (0.1)     (0.1)
3. Consultancies, Studies & Trainingl0'
a) Gaza                                                     -        -      2.1       1.3       3.4                0.2       -       0.2       0.4
(1.9)              (1.9)                                (0.1)     (0.1)
b) West Bank                                                -        -        -       3.3       3.3                0.8       -       0.1       0.9
c) Institutional support and Project Management             -        -      2.5       2.4       4.9                 -        -        -         -
(2.0)              (2.0)
4. Incremental Operating Expenses"/'                          -        -       1.5      1.5       3.0                 -        -       2.9       2.9
(1.5)              (1.5)                                (2.9)     (2.9)
TOTAL                                                        10.0    28.6      9.4      80.0     128.0               18.6    71.6      3.3      93.5
TFGWB.                                                      (7.0)   (15.1)   (7.9)               (30.0)                     (26.9)   (3.1)    (30.0)
1/ TFGWB shares shown in brackets.
2/ Figures have been rounded.
3/ Total available funding reduced from US$128m to US$93.5m due to cofinancing short falls.
4/ NIF: TFGWB financed. Represent amounts to be cofinanced in parallel by the Saudi, Kuwait and Arab funds and half of the Danish contribution.
5/ Mistake in the SAR document is here corrected.
6/ Ibid.
7/ Force account.
8/ Includes provision for participating Municipalities as well as PECDAR.
9/ Intemational and local shopping.
10/ Includes subprojects as well as the consultants employed to PECDAR
11/ Includes salaries, office rents, utilities and vehicle operating costs for PECDAR for 3 years.



22                                                                   Implementation Completion Report
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Covennt PrsentOriginal  Revised
Agreement Section Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment      Description of covenant          Comments
type   tatus date    date
LA      4.01     2       C                      Ensure the maintenance by Implementing Agencies  Fulfilled
of records, accounts and underlying documentation
related to their activities under the Project
LA    Sched. #    9      C                      Prepare and furnish to the Administrator quarterly   Fulfilled
5                                     reports on the status of project implementation
LA    Sched. #    5      C                      Undertake, jointly with the Administrator, semi-    Fulfilled
5                                     annual reviews of the Project for the purpose of
agreeing on such adjustments to the components, or
implementation and financing arrangements of the
Project as may be required to achieve the objective
thereof
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                 Actual
Stage of project cycle                  Weeks      US$         Weeks    US$           Weeks      US$
Preparation to appraisal                  NA        NA          NA        NA           NA        NA
Appraisal                                 NA        NA          NA        NA           NA        NA
Negotiations through Board approval       NA        NA          NA        NA           NA        NA
Supervision                              125.0      NA            -        -          187.8    772.6
Completion                                6.0       15.0          -        -           3.5       5.4
NA = Not Available.



Implementation Completion Report                                                                 23
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project Month/  No. of  Days in Specialized Staff       Performance Rating          Types of
Cycle            year   persons   field  skills represented                                 problems
Implementation   Development
status        objectives
10/93  6    26    ~~Urban, Water,
10/93     6        26     Roads, Power
Through appraisal  2/94     3        15     Water, Roadsn
Appraisal through  4/94     1        5         Water
Board approval
Supervision      6/94       2        4      Water, Roads
"1              8/94       1      180",       Urban
"f              8/94       3       10     Proc. & Water
10/94     1        5         Water
11/94     1        5         Roads
1/95      1        5         Water
Supervision      8/94       1        5        Water &             S                S
Sanitation
(PSR Update)      6/95      1                                     U                S
Update            1/96      1                                      S               S
Update           12/96      1                                      S               S
"               2/97       1                                     S                S
it              6/97       2              Urban Planner,         S                S
Env, Roads
12/97     2                     "                S                S
6/98      2                    "                 S               S
Urban Planner,
12/98      1             Roads, Water &            
Sanitation
Engineer
Comnpletion       6/99      3       20           "                 S               S
1/ Task manager's initial assignment to the field. Supervision team based full time in the field.



24                                                            Implementation Completion Report
ANNEX 1
COMMENTS FROM BORROWER



Implementation Completion Report                                                      25
A NNEX I
PALESTINIANECONOMIC
COUNCIL
For Development &z Reconstruction
PECDAR
Mr. Kingsely Robotham
Task manager
World Bank Mission
West Bank & Gaza
Subject:   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT, WEST BANK & GAZA
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION PROJECT # 1
(Trust Fund Credit No. 26066)
Dear Mr. Robotham
As mentioned in my letter, I have no major comments. Without any elaboration and repeating the
historical background and the implemented components, I have compiled few points regarding the
projects.
A-   ERPI Objectives: -
As stated in the staff appraisal report, the main objectives of the project were "to help alleviate the current
crisis". The strategy was "to deliver benefits to broad sectors of the Palestinian population as quickly,
equitably and effectively as possible" which would be achieved through (removing the most critical
infrastructure bottle necks and improving essential facilities and services in addition to creating
productive employment. (SAR p.4.Para 12).
B-   ERP1 description: -
ERPI intended to:-
a) Reconstruct rehabilitate and/or improve priority infrastructure services in 3 main sectors i.e.
education, water & wastewater and roads.
b) Support capacity building in the field of project to be effectively implementing EAP. Top
priority sub-projects were identified for the 1st year and a contract with management
consultanting firm MC was a provision for effectiveness of the project, the contract was signed
later. It worth to mention that PECDAR was targeted for the capacity building (SAR, p.4, para.
13).
C-   Expected risks: -
a) Political: instability or negotiating delays could significantly slow activities.



26                                                          Implementation Completion Report
b) Weak technical capacity could threaten implementation.
D-   Achievements of objectives: -
1)    Physical objectives were largely achieved. Both economical & social impacts has been
achieved.
2)    Employment objectives were over achieved by creating more job opportunities than
anticipated through pursuing direct and indirect labor element in the projects
implementation plan.
3) Capacity building: -
PECDAR achieved a good level of institutional building, other partners like
Municipalities (Local Government Units LGU's) and relevant Ministries (at a
later stage) learnt much of know how regarding project preparation, procurement
procedures and evaluation of responsive bids. Due to the LGU's technical
weakness observed immediately after the Israeli withdraw from the territories,
Pecdar chosen the minimum risk path of handling the issue. That is why only sub
projects were prepared by LGU's, checked and approved by the World bank and
Pecdars assigned experts. The LGU representatives' was present in the bid
opening, and shared to some extent in the bid evaluation process.
During implementation and due to the absence of basic technical administration
setup for the targeted areas of the project, PECDAR toke the responsibility, again
for assigning project managers and quality supervision experts to monitor and
lead the project. For some LGU with acceptable technical background mutual
supervision of the projects activities with PECDAR Engineers were welcomed
and were initiated. This helped LGU staff to implement independently future
projects of other programs like MIDP & MSP.
As for local contractors and consultants they acquired a good chance to develop
themselves and improve their institutional capacity. It is one of the ERPI
outcome is the establishment of three material testing labs to oversee the quality
of works. By the end of ERP1 activities, local contractors became capable of
handling project more than 3 million USA $, as proved in Salah-din Road
Contracts.
E-    Major Affecting Factors & Problems Encountered: -
4)    The project starting was delayed from lJune to September 94. This was due to the delay the
appointment of MC, the effect was of minor value.
5)    Political situation had the major role regarding the project delays, because (border closures) took
place in a repetitive manner, which distorted planning and created atmosphere of instability and
frustration to both the contractors and the implementing agencies.
6)    Minor delays occurred during preparation of sub projects due to the weakness of Municipality
technical facilities and personal who prepared sub projects. That is why large portion of the sub
projects were later reviewed and updated by local experts
7)    Poor preparation of early batches of subprojects, enforced by the fact of un availability of
whatever informnation's about what existed under the ground. There was no data base of any
executed under ground infrastructure which made the design of the projects based on assumptions



Implementation Completion Report                                                      27
rather than concrete data. This also imposed delays during implementation. Time extension where
granted to seek proper solutions.
H-    Conflicting roles and responsibilities: -
8)    The project designs optimistically envisaged a key implementation role for the LGU's but on the
ground, it was found that the full dependency of sub projects implemenitation would endanger the
project implementation.
9)    The municipalities as a beneficiary and the operator of the sub project were given the major role
in identifying and preparation of sub projects. For some LGU's the procurement system was based
on national shopping which was practical for procurement of goods at the maintenance level.
Therefore, PECDAR, with the advice and guidance of the CM established four key departments
within the PMO to oversee the procurement and supervision on implementation.
10)   An excellent Management Information System MIS were developed for the monitoring and
reporting purpose.
11)   Again, as the implementation of the ERP component was considered very important at a very
critical time. And in order to lessen the risks of project implementation, project management by
employing supervision experts were adapted by PECDAR- PMO to facilitate the execution of the
civil works in full coordination with the LGU's technical staff. For some LGU's it was a relieve
from the additional management and operating cost. For others it meant loosing ground with the
donor countries. The latter is found to be groundless as proved the case in future financed project
in which the more implementation responsibility were granted for the LGU's with resources and
capability.
12)   Special provisions of Donors in the case of inter urban roads (Danish Grant ) yielded in some
difficulties regarding procurement and implementation. The Danish contractor, in fact relied on
the local contractors without any pre qualification from PECDAR's side, this fact combined with
weak management of the resources and local contractor guidance, yielded in delaying the sub
project.
D-    Projects Sustainability: -
13)   Although ERP1 intended to address emergency needs, it proved sustainable. This is evident by
the fact that ERPI was followed by other I DA projects and several donors infrastructure
projects with estimated value of 0.5 billion USA $ built on the foundation of ERPI and on the
institutional capacity built during ERPl implementation.
14)   Procurement of subprojects was handled in close conformity with the World bank guidelines, and
the advise of the local staff directed by the task manager. The immediate communication with the
local representative yielded in well built capacity of PECDAR and the rapid solution of
obstacles.
E-   Disbursement, reporting, accounting & auditing.
15)   The above mentioned aspects were handled by PECDAR in its best capacity and resources.
Reporting on the physical progress is made on a quarterly basis using the MIS and FMIS from the
PMO and the financial department.



28                                                          Implementation Completion Report
F.    Bank performance.
16)   The world Bank mission in Gaza and West Bank were cooperating and immediately interacting
with the problems. This facilitates a rapid deployment of many sub projects and compensated for
the delays occurred during the start up of the projects.
17)   Projects identification and appraisal was carried out jointly in most cases with the W.B team
specially in the batches of the 2nd and 3rd year subprojects.
18)   Decentralization of supervising team of the W.B and the quick response to no-objection request in
most cases was greatly appreciated.
G-    PECDAR's performance: -
19)   PECDAR searched for successful implementation of the project regardless of who assumes the
authority to implement as long as the implementing agency is capable and no threat to the project
is anticipated. As explained above and acting upon its responsibility as borrower, the major role
was the participation of capable LGU's and later on the relevant Ministries in regard of
subprojects identification and preparation of technical documents, the role of the weak LGU's
became less in procurement and implementation activities of the subprojects as experts were
appointed to oversee the work under the supervision of PMO. This could be described as
deviation from the SAR anticipation but to the benefit of both the project and the LGU's and its
community.
20)    PECDAR learnt much by listening to the W.B team and M/C and by its own effort. Later some
of the employed experts moved to the LGU's once opportunity emerged.
21)   The experience gained by the experts moved in an indirect way to the LGU's which later on
increased the technical capacity of the Municipalities.
H-    Assessment of the project outcome
22)   The project is rated highly satisfactory, all significant objectives were achieved in the face of
numerous technical, institutional and political obstacles.
I-    Future outcomes:-
23)   ERPI provided the foundation for further investment projects in the Municipal services sector,
community development, Job creation , health and education sector and culture heritage and
tourism development for the second millenium
Key lessons learnt:
24)   Capacity building takes longtime. Learning is a process needs patience, diligence and dedication
of all parties.
25)   A conflict when wisely managed contributes to the building capacity process, provided that both
parties under stand and respects the role of the others.
26)   Changes in design of project plan when built on provident study can yield in more successful
results.



Implementation Completion Report                                                     29
27)   Close on the ground supervision and willingness to be flexible in adapting the projects to local
realties is essential, and can contribute to mitigating risks.
28)   There are direct and indirect benefits which should acknowledged throughout the implementation
of a long term investment project.
Dr. K. A. Nigim, PMO Director, compiled the above comments. Mr. Ali Abu Marasa, Contract
administrator. Mr. Samer El Kharouf and Mr. Hamdi Al Shaer, both are the ERP coordinators.



MAP SECTION



K        '~~~~~~~~                                2 ~~~~~OCCUPIED TERRITORIES
                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WEST BANK AND GAZA STRIP
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION
PROJ ECT
I-z     Ya'bad~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    AIRPORTS/AIRFIELDS
                                                               -                 =   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR HIGHWAYS
TWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
RAILROADS
'S                           " ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~Tubas-
Tulkarm    Anopio ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ( ~~BUILT-UP AREAS
'-rj;  -    t                                       T~~~~~~~~~~~~~5ammun    'I              'UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
-it''                  Noblus   >"  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  I> ~~~~ISRAELI SETFrLEMENTS
-ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
.1'  5 ~~~i            Z]  ~NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
ARMISTICE DEMARCATION UINE, 1949
JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
-~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
-'  - 's;,_-    -'~~~~~~v), -'---'~~~~en           * ~THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
I               -   ~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ld                                                                                     -7 
iptern'otionol  -   4.,,            ~~W   E S   T 
ISRAEL                     ~~B-,A,N  K                                      0/AA',,
SEA
"4     ~~~~~~~A-~                                                                                                                      JORDAN
WEST       -
Jericho                          B~ ANK                               2
GAZA     ISRAEL
0'~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~MEDITERLRANEAN
t      E                               SEA1
Hzebron   'Cf 
EO.Ir El BIh,
-'~bttcGh/T
[4                   ~~~ISRAEL
F  i u r~T
h- 
Ilkj



