Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
SWISS GRANT RELATED TO TF 026068 GZ
Swiss Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Emergency Rehabilitation
Project in the West Bank and Gaza)
between
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT
AND RECONSTRUCTION
(an Agency of the Palestine Liberation Organization-PLO)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(as Administrator of a grant provided
by Switzerland)
Dated November 29, 1994
SWISS GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER TF 026068 GZ
SWISS GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated November 29, 1994, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of a grant (the Grant) 
provided by the Government of Switzerland (Switzerland) and PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC 
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (the Recipient), an agency of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization (the PLO).
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or TFCA) dated 
September 7, 1994, between the Administrator and the Recipient, the Administrator has 
agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit (the Credit) in the amount of 
US$30,000,000 to assist in financing the carrying out in the West Bank and Gaza (the 
Occupied Territories) of the Emergency Rehabilitation Project described in Schedule 3 
to the TFCA (the Project);
(B) 
Switzerland, has agreed, under a letter of agreement (Letter of 
Agreement) with the Administrator, dated November 10, 1994, to provide the Grant in 
the amount of twelve million Swiss francs (SFr 12,000,000) to assist in financing the 
Project;
Page  2
(C) 
Switzerland and the Administrator have agreed, under the Letter of 
Agreement, to assign the responsibility for administration of utilization of the 
proceeds of the Grant for purposes of the Project to the Administrator; and
(D)
the Administrator undertook under the Letter of Agreement to implement 
the procedures and conclude the agreements required to implement the Letter of 
Agreement and to achieve the objectives of the Grant;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions described in Schedule 1 to the TFCA (the 
General Conditions) shall apply mutatis mutandis to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General Conditions 
referred to in the preceding Section and in the  Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and (a) the term "Grant Account" means the 
account maintained by the Administrator, in which the amount of the Grant is 
deposited, and (b) the term "Grant Special Account" means the account to be opened by 
the Recipient pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in the amount of twelve 
million Swiss francs (SFr 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services approved for financing from the proceeds of 
the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Recipient shall, for purposes of the Grant, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, work, goods and 
services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
shall be determined by the Administrator in agreement with Switzerland. The 
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant (including deposits 
into the Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that resources adequate to 
meet such disbursement shall have been transferred from Switzerland to the 
Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III, IV and 
V of, and Schedules 4 and 5 to, the TFCA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement 
with the same force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose 
all references in said Articles and Schedule to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be 
deemed to be references to the International Development Association as Administrator 
of the Grant; (b) the "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references 
to the Grant and the Grant Account, and (c) the "Special Account" shall be deemed to 
be references to the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator (with the agreement of Switzerland) 
Page  3
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that the entire amount of the Grant 
shall be allocated for works, goods and services required for the carrying out of 
Project components in the areas of education, water and sanitation, roads and 
institutional support.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon the effectiveness of 
the Letter of Agreement and shall continue in force until termination of the Letter of 
Agreement, or until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Letter of Agreement the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice 
from one party to the other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Recipient to that effect, Switzerland shall, ipso facto, from the 
date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement as if Switzerland had been an original party to 
this Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of any 
party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Managing Director of the Recipient shall be the representative 
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Palestinian Economic Council
  for Development and Reconstruction
95 Rue Mouawya Ibn Abou Soufiane Street
El Mensah VI-Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
 or
c/o Palestinian Authority
    Jericho
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium, as of the day and year first above written.
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR 
  DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
Page  4
By /s/ Yasser Arafat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant provided
by Switzerland
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed  Expenditures
Category
in Swiss Francs)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   8,000,000
100%
(2)
Goods 
   2,000,000
100%
(3)
Expert services 
   1,000,000
100%
and training
(4)
Unallocated
   1,000,000
TOTAL
  12,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date hereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SFr 
240,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  5
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
Page  6
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
