Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
SAUDI GRANT RELATED TO TF 026078 GZ
Saudi Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Emergency Rehabilitation
Project in the West Bank and Gaza)
between
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT
AND RECONSTRUCTION
(an Agency of the Palestine Liberation Organization-PLO)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(as Administrator of a grant provided
by Saudi Fund for Development)
Dated November 29, 1994
SAUDI GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NO. TF 026078 GZ
SAUDI GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated November 29, 1994, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of a grant (the Grant) 
provided by the Saudi Fund for Development (the Fund) and PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL 
FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (the Recipient), an agency of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization (the PLO).
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or TFCA) dated 
September 7, 1994, between the Administrator and the Recipient, the Administrator has 
agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit (the Credit) in the amount of 
US$30,000,000 to assist in the financing of the Emergency Rehabilitation Project 
described in Schedule 3 to the TFCA (the Project);
(B) 
the Fund, acting as an agency of the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia, has agreed to provide the Grant in the amount of $30,000,000 to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(C) 
the Fund and the Administrator have agreed, under a Memorandum of 
Agreement (MOU) dated June 15, 1994, to assign the responsibility for administration 
of utilization of the proceeds of the Grant for purposes of the Project to the 
Administrator; and
(D) 
the Administrator undertook under the MOU to implement  the procedures 
and conclude the agreements required to implement the MOU and to achieve the 
Page  2
objectives of the Grant;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions described in Schedule 1 to the TFCA (the 
General Conditions) shall apply mutatis mutandis to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General Conditions 
referred to in the preceding Section and in the  Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and (a) the term "Grant Account" means the 
account maintained by the Administrator, in which the amount of the Grant is 
deposited, and (b) the term "Grant Special Account" means the account to be opened by 
the Recipient pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the  Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in the amount of thirty 
million United States dollars (US$30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services approved for financing from the proceeds of 
the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Recipient shall, for purposes of the Grant, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or  such later date as 
shall be determined by the Administrator in agreement with the Fund. The Administrator 
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.04. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant (including deposit 
into the Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that resources adequate to 
meet such disbursement shall have been transferred from the Fund to the Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III, IV and 
V of, and Schedules 4 and 5 to, the TFCA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement 
with the same force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose 
all references in said Articles and Schedule to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be 
deemed to be references to the International Development Association as Administrator 
of the Grant; (b) the "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references 
to the Grant and the Grant Account; and (c) the "Special Account" shall be deemed to 
be references to the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to enable the Administrator to implement its undertaking 
under the MOU, the Recipient shall: (a) for purposes of Article 3 of the MOU, prepare 
a list of activities proposed to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant; (b) for 
purposes of Article 5, (c) of the MOU, put into effect procedures to ensure prior 
approval by the Fund of the contracting procedures and award decisions with respect to 
contracts to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant; (c) for the purposes of 
Article 8 of the MOU, furnish to the Administrator, in the context of the reports 
referred to in Part B (3) of Schedule 5 to the MOU, adequate information on progress 
in the carrying out of activities financed from the proceeds of the Grant; and (d) 
take appropriate Administrative measures towards implementing the arrangements 
referred to in Article 14 of the MOU.
Page  3
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall ensure that all contracts to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Grant, through the furnishing of withdrawal applications to the 
Administrator or direct disbursement from the Special Account, shall be accompanied by 
evidence showing the approval thereof by the Fund.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon the effectiveness of 
the MOU and shall continue in force until termination of the MOU, or until the Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the MOU, the rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice from one party to 
the other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to 
the Recipient to that effect, the Fund shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in 
such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under 
this Agreement as if the Fund had been an original party to this Agreement, without 
any further action or formality required on the part of any party, and from such date 
the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Managing Director of the Recipient shall be the representative 
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Palestinian Economic Council
  for Development and Reconstruction
95 Rue Mouawya Ibn Abou Soufiane Street
El Mensah VI-Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
   or
c/o Palestinian Authority
    Jericho
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium, as of the day and year first above written.
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR 
  DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
By /s/ Yasser Arafat
Page  4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant provided
by the Saudi Fund for Development
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed  Expenditures
Category
in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  18,000,000
100%
(2)
Goods
   7,000,000
100%
(3)
Expert services
   2,000,000
100%
and training
(4)
Unallocated
   3,000,000
TOTAL
  30,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date hereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Page  5
Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  6
