Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO TF 026073 GZ
Danish Grant Agreement
(Relating to the Emergency Rehabilitation
Project in the West Bank and Gaza)
between
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT
AND RECONSTRUCTION
(an Agency of the Palestine Liberation Organization-PLO)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(as Administrator of a grant provided
by Denmark)
Dated November 29, 1994
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER TF 026073 GZ
DANISH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated November 29, 1994, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of a grant (the Grant) 
provided by the Government of Denmark (Denmark) and PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR 
DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (the Recipient), an agency of the Palestine Liberation 
Organization (the PLO).
WHEREAS (A) under an agreement (the Trust Fund Credit Agreement or TFCA) dated 
September 7, 1994, between the Administrator and the Recipient, the Administrator has 
agreed to provide the Recipient with a credit (the Credit) in the amount of 
US$30,000,000 to assist in financing the carrying out in the West Bank and Gaza (the 
Occupied Territories) of the Emergency Rehabilitation Project described in Schedule 3 
to the TFCA (the Project);
(B) 
Denmark, has agreed, under a letter of agreement (Letter of Agreement) 
with the Administrator, dated September 26, 1994 to provide the Grant in the amount of 
one hundred twenty million Danish Kroners (Dkk 120,000,000) to assist in financing the 
Project;
(C) 
Denmark and the Administrator have agreed, under the Letter of Agreement, 
to assign the responsibility for administration of utilization of the proceeds of the 
Grant for purposes of the Project to the Administrator; and
Page  2
(D)
the Administrator undertook under the Letter of Agreement to implement 
the procedures and conclude the agreements required to implement the Letter of 
Agreement and to achieve the objectives of the Grant;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions described in Schedule 1 to the TFCA (the 
General Conditions) shall apply mutatis mutandis to this Agreement.
Section 1.02. The several terms defined in the TFCA, the General Conditions 
referred to in the preceding Section and in the  Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and (a) the term "Grant Account" means the 
account maintained by the Administrator, in which the amount of the Grant is 
deposited, and (b) the term "Grant Special Account" means the account to be opened by 
the Recipient pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, the Grant in the amount of one hundred 
twenty million Danish Kroners (Dkk 120,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services approved for financing from the proceeds of 
the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Recipient shall, for purposes of the Grant, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, work, goods and 
services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
shall be determined by the Administrator in agreement with Denmark. The Administrator 
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
Section 2.05. Disbursement from the proceeds of the Grant (including deposits 
into the Special Account) shall be made only to the extent that resources adequate to 
meet such disbursement shall have been transferred from Denmark to the Administrator.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the context may otherwise require, Articles III, IV and 
V of, and Schedule 5 to, the TFCA are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the 
same force and effect as if they are fully set forth herein. For this purpose all 
references in said Articles and Schedule to: (a) the "Administrator" shall be deemed 
to be references to the International Development Association as Administrator of the 
Grant; (b) the "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references to the 
Grant and the Grant Account, and (c) the "Special Account" shall be deemed to be 
references to the Special Account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator (with the agreement of Denmark) shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall ensure that the entire amount of the Grant shall 
be allocated for works, goods and services required for the carrying out of Project 
components in the areas of roads, water and wastewater and sanitation, project 
management and institutional support.
ARTICLE IV
Page  3
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon the effectiveness of 
the Letter of Agreement and shall continue in force until termination of the Letter of 
Agreement, or until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations thereunder, whichever occurs first.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Letter of Agreement the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be terminated under a notice 
from one party to the other. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Recipient to that effect, Denmark shall, ipso facto, from the 
date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agreement as if Denmark had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part of any party, 
and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representatives
Section 5.01. The Managing Director of the Recipient shall be the representative 
of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Palestinian Economic Council
  for Development and Reconstruction
95 Rue Mouawya Ibn Abou Soufiane Street
El Mensah VI-Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
 or
c/o Palestinian Authority
    Jericho
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium, as of the day and year first above written.
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR 
  DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
By /s/ Yasser Arafat
Authorized Representative
Page  4
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant provided
by Denmark
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the 
Grant Allocated
   % of
  (Expressed  Expenditures
Category
in Dkk)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  72,000,000
100%
(2)
Goods
  24,000,000
100%
(3)
Expert services
  12,000,000
100%
and training
(4)
Unallocated
  12,000,000
TOTAL
 120,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, except as the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date hereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  General Requirements
In implementation of a requirement stated, with the approval of the Recipient, 
in the Letter of Agreement, the Recipient shall ensure in the administration of the 
procurement procedures set forth in this Schedule that one-half of the Grant amount 
shall be used to finance contracts with Danish contractors, suppliers and consultants.
Section II. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
Competitive Bidding
Except as required under Section I above or provided in       Part D hereof, 
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Administrator in May 
1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Administrator, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to 
the local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A or, 
Page  5
if feasible, where competitive bidding is limited to Danish contractors or suppliers, 
the Recipient shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Administrator, with such modifications thereto as the Administrator shall have agreed 
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Administrator, the Recipient shall use bidding 
documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Administrator.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods under international competitive bidding in 
accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the 
Occupied Territories will be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and 
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the international competitive 
bidding procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the Recipient will grant a 
margin of preference to domestic contractors from the Occupied Territories in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Items of works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Administrator. 
Such procedures shall ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders will be advertised for at 
least two consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective 
bidders will be allowed a minimum of 30 days between the first appearance of 
notification and bid submission; (iii) bidding documents will follow the formats of 
the Administrator's Standard Bidding Documents or those used by United Nations 
Agencies operating in the Territories; (iv) if interested, foreign bidders will be 
allowed to submit bids; (v) bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both 
mailed and hand-carried bids will be accepted; (vi) all bids will be opened at the 
same time in public; (vii) contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; 
(viii) bidders will not be asked, nor allowed, to change the substance of their bids 
after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder 
will be confined to those cases listed in the Guidelines; and (ix) in the absence of 
prequalification, postqualification criteria will be explicitly stated in the bidding 
documents.
2.
Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less may be 
procured under contracts awarded through limited international shopping procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three 
qualified suppliers (i) from not less than three countries (including the Occupied 
Territories) in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof), or (ii) from not 
less than three suppliers from Denmark (if such limitation is required to meet the 
requirement set forth in Section I of this Schedule).
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers in the Occupied 
Territories eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
4.
Proprietary items may be procured under contracts to be directly negotiated with 
the suppliers thereof, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator.
Part E:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of more than $2,000,000 and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of more than $250,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
Page  6
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Administrator prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-ceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Administrator pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Administrator as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-graph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section III. Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of activities to be 
financed from the Grant, the Recipient shall employ consultants who shall be selected 
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Administrator in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Recipient shall 
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Administrator, with such modifications as shall 
have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Administrator, the Recipient shall use other standard forms 
agreed with the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Administrator review shall 
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Administrator or to amendments of contracts raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to Dkk 
20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
Page  7
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
Page  8
including the General Conditions.
