Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 026066 GZ
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Emergency Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
(an Agency of the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Dated September 7, 1994
TF 026066 GZ
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 7, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as administrator (the Administrator) of 
a Trust Fund established by a Resolution of its Board, and PALESTINIAN 
ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (the Borrower), an 
agency established and operating under a Basic Regulation (the 
Regulation) issued on May 14, 1994, under a Decree from the Chairman of 
the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization (the 
PLO).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the Administrator, acting on 
the recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, has decided on 
November 11, 1993, to establish a trust fund (the Trust Fund) in the 
amount of $50,000,000 to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and to be used 
for financing emergency rehabilitation activities in the Gaza Strip 
(Gaza);
(B)
the Borrower was established specifically to be responsible 
for coordinating and implementing programs and projects for the 
development and reconstruction of the West Bank and Gaza (the Occupied 
Territories) and to be the recipient of funds allocated therefore;
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Administrator to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the 
Project), which includes rehabilitation, reconstruction and technical 
assistance activities for Gaza as well as for other parts of the 
Page  2
Occupied Territories;
(D)
under the Agreement on the Gaza Strip and The Jericho Area 
between the PLO and the Government of the State of Israel, dated May 4, 
1994, the parties thereto agreed to the establishment by the PLO of a 
Palestinian Authority (the Palestinian Authority) to perform the powers 
and functions therein set forth;
(E)
the Palestinian Authority had made certain confirmations to 
the Administrator as to the power of the Borrower to enter into this 
Agreement and as to the succession arrangements to be made with respect 
to rights and obligations of the Borrower in case of its full or partial 
dissolution, reconstitution or merger;
(F)
the Credit provided under this Agreement from the proceeds 
of the Trust Fund in the amount of $30,000,000 shall be allocated 
exclusively for financing activities to be carried out under the Project 
in Gaza and the Borrower intends, with the assistance of the 
Administrator, to secure the funds required for the carrying out of 
other activities under the Project through contributions from other 
donors;
(G)
the remaining amount of $20,000,000 in deposit in the Trust 
Fund shall be used for financing such additional rehabilitation 
activities in Gaza as the Borrower and the Administrator shall 
subsequently agree; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"PMO" means the Program Management and Monitoring Office of 
the Borrower;
(b)
"Sub-Project" means any component of the Project;
(c)
"Implementing Agency" means any entity in the Territories, 
or an agency of the United Nations operating therein, to which the 
Borrower shall assign the responsibility for implementation of a 
Sub-project;
(d)
"Co-Financier" means any donor providing the Borrower with a 
loan or a grant to assist in financing the Project;
(e)
"Co-Financing Agreements" means the agreements to be 
concluded between the Borrower and the Co-Financiers; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars 
($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such 
later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant 
to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 
1 commencing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2034.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2014 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Implementation Program shall be 
modified from time to time by the Agreement of the Borrower and the 
Administrator.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall 
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
    (ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than 
six months after the end of 
each such year, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; and
   (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information 
concerning said records, 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the 
Adminis-trator has received the audit for 
the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives, based on 
an appropriate notice, to 
examine such 
records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
Page  5
the annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the proce-dures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (g) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that 
subject to paragraph (b) of this paragraph: (i) the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor, or (ii) any such loan shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: (i) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is speci-fied, namely, that 
the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that 
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following additional event is specified for 
purposes of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
Borrower has employed, as described in paragraph 1 of Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the management consultants referred to in 
Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestinan Economic Council
  for Development and Reconstruction
95 Rue Mouawya Ibn Abou Soufiane Street
El Mensah VI-Tunis
Republic of Tunisia
Page  6
or
c/o Palestinian Authority
    Jericho
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Gaza City, Gaza, as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR
  DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION 
By /s/ Mohammad El Nashashibi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
General Conditions
ARTICLE I
Application to Trust Fund Credit Agreement
SECTION 1.01. These General Conditions set forth certain terms and 
conditions generally applicable to this Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
SECTION 1.02. If any provision of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
is inconsistent with a provision of these General Conditions, the 
provision of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall govern.
ARTICLE II
Definitions; Headings
SECTION 2.01. Definitions. The following terms have the following 
meanings wherever used in these General Conditions:
Page  7
1.
"Administrator" means the International Development 
Association.
2.
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development.
3.
"Trust Fund Credit Agreement" means this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement to which these General Conditions are made applicable.
4.
"Credit" means the Credit provided for in this Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement.
5.
"Borrower" means the Palestinian Economic Council for 
Development and Reconstruction.
6.
"Currency" of a country means the coin or currency which is 
legal tender for the payment of public and private debts in that 
country.
7.
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of 
the United States of America.
8.
"Credit Account" means the account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the 
amount of the Credit is credited.
9.
"Project" means the project or program for which the Credit 
is granted, as described in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement and as the 
description thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Borrower and the Administrator.
10.
"Effective Date" means the date on which this Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement shall enter into effect as provided in Section 12.03.
11.
"Taxes" includes imports, levies, fees and duties of any 
nature, whether in effect at the date of this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement or thereafter imposed.
12.
"Closing Date" means the date specified in this Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement (as it may be extended) after which the Administrator 
may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to 
withdraw from the Credit Account.
SECTION 2.02. References. References in these General Conditions to 
Articles or Sections are to Articles or Sections of these General 
Conditions.
SECTION 2.03. Headings. The headings of the Articles and Sections 
and the Table of Contents are inserted for convenience of reference only 
and are not a part of these General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Credit Account; Service Charges;
Repayment; Place of Payment
SECTION 3.01. Credit Account. The amount of the Credit shall be 
credited to the Credit Account and may be withdrawn therefrom by the 
Borrower as provided in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
SECTION 3.02. Service Charges. The Borrower shall pay a service 
charge on the amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time at the rate specified in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement. 
SECTION 3.03. Computation of Service Charges. Service charges shall 
Page  8
be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
SECTION 3.04. Repayment. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in installments 
as provided in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(b) 
The Borrower shall have the right to repay in advance of 
maturity all or any part of the principal amount of one or more 
maturities of the Credit specified by the Borrower.
SECTION 3.05. Place of Payment. The principal of, and service 
charges on, the Credit shall be paid at such places as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Currency Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be made. 
Except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the respective 
currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit have been paid or are payable.
SECTION 4.02. Currencies in which Principal and Service Charges are 
Payable. (a) The Borrower shall pay the principal amount of, and service 
charges on, the Credit in the currency specified in the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement for the purposes of this Section or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated 
or selected pursuant to paragraphs (c) or (e) of this Section.
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section, the term "eligible 
currency" means the currency of any member of the Administrator which 
the Administrator from time to time determines to be freely convertible 
or freely exchangeable by the Administrator for currencies of other 
members of the Administrator for the purposes of its operations.
(c) 
If at any time the Borrower shall desire that, commencing on 
a given future payment date, such principal and service charges shall be 
payable in an eligible currency other than that so specified or than one 
previously designated pursuant to this paragraph (c) or selected 
pursuant to paragraph (e) below, the Borrower shall deliver to the 
Administrator, not less than three nor more than five months prior to 
such payment date, a notice in writing to that effect and designating 
such other eligible currency. Upon receipt of such notice and commencing 
on such payment date, the currency so designated shall be the currency 
in which such principal and service charges shall be payable.
(d) 
If at any time the Administrator shall determine that a 
currency payable pursuant to the provisions of this Section is not an 
eligible currency, the Administrator shall so notify the Borrower in 
writing and furnish the Borrower with a list of eligible currencies.
(e) 
Within thirty days from the date of such notice from the 
Administrator, the Borrower shall notify the Administrator in writing of 
its selection from such list of a currency in which payment shall be 
made, failing which the Administrator shall select a currency for such 
purpose from such list. Upon such selection in either manner, such 
principal and service charges shall, commencing on the payment date next 
-succeeding such thirty-day period, be payable in the currency so 
selected.
SECTION 4.03 Amount of Repayment. The principal amount of the 
Credit repayable shall be the equivalent of the value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account expressed in terms of 
dollars as of the respective dates of withdrawal.
Page  9
SECTION 4.04. Valuation of Currencies. Whenever it shall be 
necessary for the purposes of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement to 
determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value 
shall be as reasonably determined by the Administrator.
SECTION 4.05. Manner of Payment. (a) Any payment required under 
this Trust Fund Credit Agreement to be made to the Administrator in the 
currency of a country shall be made in such manner, and in currency 
acquired in such manner, as shall be permitted under the laws of such 
country for the purpose of making such payment and effecting the deposit 
of such currency to the account of the Administrator with a depository 
of the Administrator in such country.
(b) 
The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall 
be paid without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Withdrawal of Proceeds of Credit
SECTION 5.01. Withdrawal from the Credit Account. The Borrower 
shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account amounts expended 
or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions. Except as the Borrower and 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank (other than Switzerland and Taiwan) or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
SECTION 5.02. Special Commitments by the Administrator.  Upon the 
Borrower's request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Administrator, the Administrator may 
enter into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Borrower 
or others in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation 
by the Administrator or the Borrower.
SECTION 5.03. Applications for Withdrawal or for Special 
Commitment. When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw any amount from 
the Credit Account or to request the Administrator to enter into a 
special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02, the Borrower shall deliver 
to the Administrator a written application in such form, and containing 
such statements and agreements, as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request. Applications for withdrawal, including the documentation 
required pursuant to this Article, shall be made promptly in relation to 
expenditures for the Project.
SECTION 5.04. Reallocation. Notwithstanding the allocation of an 
amount of the Credit or the percentages for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement, if the Administrator 
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to 
any withdrawal category set forth in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement or 
added thereto by amendment will be insufficient to finance the agreed 
percentage of all expenditures in that category, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower:
(a) 
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet 
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated 
to another category and which in the opinion of the Administrator are 
not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(b) 
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated 
shortfall, reduce the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such 
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such category may 
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
Page  10
SECTION 5.05. Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for 
Withdrawal. The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of 
the authority of the person or persons authorized to sign applications 
for withdrawal and the authenticated specimen signature of any such 
person.
SECTION 5.06. Supporting Evidence. The Borrower shall furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence in support of the 
application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, whether 
before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
SECTION 5.07. Sufficiency of Applications and Documents.  Each 
application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the 
Borrower is entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account the amount 
applied for and that the amount to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
is to be used only for the purposes specified in this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
SECTION 5.08. Treatment of Taxes. It is the policy of the 
Administrator that no proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn on 
account of payments for any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit decreases or increases, the Administrator may, by notice 
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the percentage for withdrawal set 
forth or referred to in respect of such item in this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Administrator.
SECTION 5.09. Payment by the Administrator. The Administrator shall 
pay the amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account only 
to or on the order of the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 6.01. Cancellation by the Borrower. The Borrower may, by 
notice to the Administrator, cancel any amount of the Credit which the 
Borrower shall not have withdrawn, except that the Borrower may not so 
cancel any amount of the Credit in respect of which the Administrator 
shall have entered into a special commitment pursuant to Section 5.02.
Section 6.02. Suspension by the Administrator. If any of the 
following events of suspension shall have occurred and be continuing, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account:
(a)
The Borrower shall have failed to make payment 
(notwithstanding the fact that such payment may have been made by a 
third party) of principal, interest, service charges or any other amount 
due to the Administrator or the Bank: (i) under this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement, or (ii) under any other trust fund credit agreement between 
the Borrower and the Administrator. 
(b)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its other 
substantial obligations under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(c)
The Administrator or the Bank shall have suspended in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals under any trust 
fund credit agreement with the Administrator because of a failure by the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement.
Page  11
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
this Trust Fund Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Project can be carried 
out or that the Borrower will be able to perform its obligations under 
this Trust Fund Credit Agreement.
(e)
After the date of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement and prior 
to the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred which would have 
entitled the Administrator to suspend the Borrower's right to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account if this Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
had been effective on the date such event occurred.
(f)
A representation made by the Borrower, in or pursuant to 
this Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or any statement furnished in 
connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the 
Administrator in making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any 
material respect.
(g)
Any other event specified in this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement for the purposes of this Section shall have occurred.
The right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case 
may be, until the event or events which gave rise to suspension shall 
have ceased to exist, unless the Administrator shall have notified the 
Borrower that the right to make withdrawals has been restored in whole 
or in part, as the case may be.
SECTION 6.03. Cancellation by the Administrator. If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Administrator determines 
that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement and establishes 
the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit or, (d) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Administrator may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, 
such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled.
SECTION 6.04. Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by 
Cancellation or Suspension by the Administrator. No cancellation or 
suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts subject to any 
special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 except as expressly provided in such commitment.
SECTION 6.05. Application of Cancellation to Maturities of the 
Credit. Except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, any cancellation shall be applied pro rata to the several 
installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing after the 
date of such cancellation.
SECTION 6.06. Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or 
Cancellation. Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the 
provisions of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect except as specifically provided in this Article.
ARTICLE VII
Acceleration of Maturity
Page  12
SECTION 7.01. Events of Acceleration. If any of the following 
events shall occur and shall continue for the period specified below, if 
any, then at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the 
Administrator, at its option, may, by notice to the Borrower, declare 
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable 
immediately together with the service charges thereon and upon any such 
declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall become due 
and payable immediately:
(a)
A default shall occur in the payment of principal or any 
other payment required under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement and such 
default shall continue for a period of thirty days.
(b)
A default shall occur in the payment by the Borrower of 
principal or interest or any other amount due to the Administrator or 
the Bank.
(c)
A default shall occur in the performance of any other 
substantial obligation on the part of the Borrower under this Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement, and such default shall continue for a period of sixty 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Administrator to 
the Borrower.
(d)
Any other event specified in this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement for the purposes of this Section shall have occurred and shall 
continue for the period, if any, specified in this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Taxes
SECTION 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other charges on, 
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.
(b) 
This Trust Fund Credit Agreement, and any other agreement to 
which these General Conditions apply, shall be free from any taxes 
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on or in connection with 
the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE IX
Cooperation and Information;
Financial and Economic Data;
Project Implementation
SECTION 9.01. Cooperation and Information. (a) The Borrower and the 
Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the 
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the 
Administrator shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, 
exchange views with regard to 
the progress of the 
Project, the purposes of the Credit, and the performance of 
their respective obligations under this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement; and furnish to 
the other party all such 
information related thereto as it shall reasonably 
request; and
     (ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which 
interferes with, or threatens to 
interfere with, the 
matters referred to in paragraph (i) above.
(b) 
The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Administrator to visit any site for purposes 
related to the Credit.
Page  13
SECTION 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator all such information as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request with respect to its financial and economic 
conditions. 
SECTION 9.03. Insurance. The Borrower shall insure or cause to be 
insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported 
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the 
place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be 
payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 9.04. Use of Goods and Services. Except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods 
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
SECTION 9.05. Plans and Schedules. The Borrower shall furnish, or 
cause to be furnished, to the Administrator promptly upon their 
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and 
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request.
SECTION 9.06. Records and Reports. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) 
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the 
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be 
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) 
within its capacity, enable the Administrator's representatives to visit 
any facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to 
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any 
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement; and (iii) furnish 
to the Administrator at regular intervals all such information as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost 
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the 
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services 
financed out of such proceeds.
(b) 
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Administrator may 
publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to 
which the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event 
not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be 
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Administrator 
of this respective obligations under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
SECTION 9.07. Maintenance. The Borrower shall at all times operate 
and maintain, or cause to be operated and maintained, any facilities 
relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make or cause to be 
made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
ARTICLE X
Failure to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Page  14
SECTION 10.01. Failure to Exercise Rights. No delay in exercising, 
or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to either 
party under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement upon any default shall 
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver 
thereof or an acquiescence in such default. No action of such party in 
respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall 
affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of 
any other or subsequent default.
SECTION 10.02. Arbitration. (a) Any controversy between the parties 
to this Trust Fund Credit Agreement and any claim by either such party 
against the other arising under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement which 
has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be submitted to 
arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b) 
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Administrator 
and the Borrower.
(c) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators 
appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the 
Administrator; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Borrower; 
and the third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall 
be appointed by agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by 
the President of the International Court of Justice or, failing 
appointment by said President, by the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations. If either of the parties shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, 
such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any arbitrator 
appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become 
unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same 
manner as herein prescribed for the appointment of the original 
arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties of 
such original arbitrator.
(d) 
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this 
Section upon notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the 
other party. Such notice shall contain a statement setting forth the 
nature of the controversy or claim to be submitted to arbitration, the 
nature of the relief sought, and the name of the arbitrator appointed by 
the party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days after such 
notice, the other party shall notify to the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e) 
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the 
arbitration proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an 
Umpire, either party may request the appointment of an Umpire as 
provided in paragraph (c) of this Section.
(f) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place 
as shall be fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall 
determine where and when it shall sit.
(g) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to 
its competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and 
except as the parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. 
All decisions of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h) 
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the parties a fair 
hearing and shall render its award in writing. Such award may be 
rendered by default. An award signed by a majority of the Arbitral 
Tribunal shall constitute the award of such Tribunal. A signed 
counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each party. Any such 
award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Section shall 
be final and binding upon the parties to this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement. Each party shall abide by and comply with any such award 
rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of 
this Section.
Page  15
(i) 
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the 
arbitrators and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct 
of the arbitration proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such 
amount before the Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal 
shall fix such amount as shall be reasonable under the circumstances. 
Each party shall defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. 
The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne 
equally by the parties. Any question concerning the division of the 
costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the procedure for payment of such 
costs shall be determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.
(j) 
The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Section 
shall be in lieu of any other procedure for the settlement of 
controversies between the parties to this Trust Fund Credit Agreement or 
of any claims by either party against the other party arising 
thereunder.
(k) 
The Administrator shall not be entitled to enter judgment 
against the Borrower upon the award, to enforce the award against the 
Borrower by execution or to pursue any other remedy against the Borrower 
for the enforcement of the award, except as such procedure may be 
available against the Borrower otherwise than by reason of the 
provisions of this Section. If, within thirty days after counterparts of 
the award shall have been delivered to the parties, the award shall not 
be complied with by the Administrator, the Borrower may take any such 
action for the enforcement of the award against the Administrator.
(l) 
Service of any notice or process in connection with any 
proceeding under this Section or in connection with any proceeding to 
enforce any award rendered pursuant to this Section may be made in the 
manner provided in Section 11.01. The parties to this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the service of any 
such notice or process.
ARTICLE XI
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 11.01. Notices and Requests. Any notice or request required 
or permitted to be given or made under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement shall be in writing. Except as otherwise provided 
in Section 12.03, such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required 
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address specified in 
this Trust Fund Credit Agreement, or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.
SECTION 11.02. Evidence of Authority. The Borrower shall furnish to 
the Administrator sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or 
persons who will, on behalf of the Borrower, take any action or execute 
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Borrower under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement, and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 11.03. Action on Behalf of the Borrower. Any action 
required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement on 
behalf of the Borrower may be taken or executed by the representative of 
the Borrower designated in this Trust Fund Credit Agreement for the 
purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing 
by such representative. Any modification or amplification of the 
provisions of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement may be agreed to on 
behalf of the Borrower by written instrument executed on behalf of the 
Borrower by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
Page  16
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the 
opinion of such representative, such modification or amplification is 
reasonable in the circumstances and will not substantially increase the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Trust Fund Credit Agreement. The 
Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion 
of such representative any modification or amplification of the 
provisions of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement effected by such 
instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not substantially 
increase the obligations of the Borrower thereunder.
SECTION 11.04. Execution in Counterparts. This Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall 
be an original.
ARTICLE XII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 12.01. Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of the Trust 
Fund Credit Agreement.  This Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall  not 
become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Administrator shall 
have been furnished to the Administrator that:
(a)
the execution and delivery of this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or 
ratified by all necessary governmental action; and
(b)
all other events specified in this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement as conditions to its effectiveness have occurred.
SECTION 12.02. Legal Opinions or Certificates. As part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 12.01, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the 
Administrator of counsel acceptable to the Administrator or, if the 
Administrator so requests, a certificate satisfactory to the 
Administrator of a competent official of the Borrower, showing:
(a)
that this Trust Fund Credit Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms; and
(b)
such other matters as shall be specified in this Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement or as shall be reasonably requested by the 
Administrator in connection therewith.
SECTION 12.03. Effective Date. (a) Except as the Borrower and the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, this Trust Fund Credit Agreement 
shall enter into effect on the date on which the Administrator 
dispatches to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence 
required by Section 12.01.
(b)
If, before the Effective Date, any event shall have occurred 
which would have entitled the Administrator to suspend the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account if this Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement had been effective, the Administrator may postpone the 
dispatch of the notice referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
until such event or events shall  have ceased to exist.
SECTION 12.04. Termination of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement for 
Failure to Become Effective. If this Trust Fund Credit Agreement shall 
not have entered into effect by the date specified therein for the 
purposes of this Section, this Trust Fund Credit Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties thereunder shall terminate, unless the 
Administrator, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, shall 
establish a later date for the purposes of this Section. The 
Page  17
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
SECTION 12.05. Termination of this Trust Fund Credit Agreement on 
Full Payment. If and when the entire principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall have 
accrued on the Credit shall have been paid, this Trust Fund Credit 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith 
terminate.
SCHEDULE 2
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
 Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
Gaza
 20,900,000
100% 
(2)
Vehicles, Equipment,
Supplies and Spares
(a)
Gaza
    700,000
100%
(b)
Institutional
Support and
Project Management
    100,000
100%
(3)
Consultancies,
Studies and Training
(a)
Gaza
  1,900,000
100%
(b)
Institutional
  2,000,000
100%
Support and
Project
Management
(4)
Incremental Operating
Expenses of the Borrower
  1,400,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
         3,000,000
TOTAL
        30,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "operating expenditures" 
means expenditures incurred by the Borrower on account of salaries, 
operation equipment, rentals, supplies and utility prices.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  18
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to address the most pressing 
needs for rehabilitation and improvement of essential services in the 
Occupied Territories and for creation of productive employment.
The Project consists of the following components:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure
(1)
Education: upgrading of physical facilities and of teaching quality 
through: (a) rehabilitation of school physical facilities; (b) provision 
of essential teaching materials and equipment; and (c) provision of 
technical assistance for purposes of project preparation and 
supervision.
(2)
Water Supply, Waste Water and Sanitation: implementation of high 
priority works and provision of essential operation and maintenance 
equipment, including: (a) upgrading of wells and storage facilities; (b) 
upgrading/extension of storm water collection and sewerage system; (c) 
installation of urgently needed wells and improvement of water supply in 
selected villages; (d) provision of equipment, operation vehicles, 
supplies, spares and materials to meet basic operation and maintenance 
requirements; and (e) provision of engineering services for purposes of 
project preparation and implementation.
(3)
Inter-urban Roads: rehabilitation of main road network and 
establishment of a capability for road maintenance, including: (a) 
rehabilitation of main roads and of village access roads; (b) 
development and implementation of a road maintenance program; (c) 
provision of guard rails, maintenance equipment and vehicle and office 
facilities; and (d) provision of engineering services to assist in road 
program preparation, work supervision and staff training.
(4)
Municipal Roads and Facilities: rehabilitation of critical 
municipal road sections and improvement of other municipal facilities, 
including: (a) rehabilitation/improvement of secondary roads and 
internal village roads; (b) development and implementation of a road 
maintenance program; (c) rehabilitation of public municipal facilities, 
such as parks, markets and slaughter houses; and (d) implementation of a 
short-term program for removal of debris; (e) provision of essential 
equipment, vehicles and materials required for road maintenance, 
construction supervision and staff training; and (f) provision of 
engineering services to assist municipalities in road program 
preparation, construction supervision and staff training.
(5)
Power:  improvements to the power supply and distribution network 
through the carrying out of essential investments and the provision of 
vehicles, equipment and technical assistance.
Part B:
Institutional Support
(1)
Support for the operation of the Borrower and Implementing 
Agencies, through the financing of employment of staff, rental of office 
facilities and acquisition of operation vehicles, equipment and 
materials.
(2)
Provision of Consultants' services to assist in the management of 
the Project and other programs of the Borrower, and in procurement, 
accounting and audit of account.
(3)
Carrying out of studies and training for the staff of the Borrower 
and Implementing Agencies.
*       *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
Page  19
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank 
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to 
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract 
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Administrator, one to 
be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local 
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with 
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding 
documents issued by the Administrator, with such modifications thereto 
as the Administrator shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Administrator, the Borrower shall use bidding documents 
based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the 
Administrator.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Occupied 
Territories will be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, 
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A of this Schedule, the Borrower will grant a margin 
of preference to domestic contractors from the Occupied Territories in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Items of works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or 
less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Administrator. Such procedures shall 
ensure, inter alia, that: (i) tenders will be advertised for at least 
two consecutive days in a local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) 
prospective bidders will be allowed a minimum of 30 days between the 
first appearance of notification and bid submission; (iii) bidding 
documents will follow the formats of the Administrator's Standard 
Bidding Documents or those used by United Nations Agencies operating in 
the Territories; (iv) if interested, foreign bidders will be allowed to 
submit bids; (v) bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both 
mailed and hand-carried bids will be accepted; (vi) all bids will be 
opened at the same time in public; (vii) contracts will be awarded to 
the lowest evaluated bidder; (viii) bidders will not be asked, nor 
allowed, to change the substance of their bids after the bid closing 
Page  20
date, and price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder will be 
confined to those cases listed in the Guidelines; and (ix) in the 
absence of prequalification, postqualification criteria will be 
explicitly stated in the bidding documents.
2.
Items of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less 
may be procured under contracts awarded through limited international 
shopping procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers from not less 
than three countries (including the Occupied Territories) eligible under 
the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 
and 2.56 thereof).
3.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers in the Occupied Territories eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
Proprietary items may be procured under contracts to be directly 
negotiated with the suppliers thereof, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final 
contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of more than $2,000,000 and each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $250,000, and the first 
two contracts to be concluded by any Implementing Agency, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Administrator pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Administrator prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-ceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to 
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant 
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Administrator as part of 
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower shall employ consultants who shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For 
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
Page  21
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Administrator, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Administrator, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with 
the Administrator.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator 
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, 
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall 
not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Admini-strator review shall not 
apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment 
of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a 
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Administrator or to 
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Arrangements
The Borrower shall apply the following Project implementation 
arrangements, as they may be modified by the agreement of the Borrower 
and the Administrator in the course of the semi-annual reviews referred 
to in paragraph B(3) (c) of this Schedule.
A.
Project Management
(1)
PMO shall have the overall responsibility for Project management. 
It shall establish an office in Gaza to be headed by a Deputy Director. 
PMO shall perform the following functions with the assistance of a firm 
of management consultants:
(a)
programming and budgeting for Project activities;
(b)
institution of operation procedures and systems;
(c)
Sub-project screening and evaluation;
(d)
development of model contract documents for use by 
Implementing Agencies;
(e)
payment review and certification;
(f)
implementation monitoring and supervision; and
(g)
project data processing and accounting.
(2)
PMO shall be directly responsible, with the assistance of 
consultants, for: (a) the implementation of large or inter-municipal 
sub-projects; and (b) the carrying out of bulk procurement of goods 
required for a multitude of Sub-projects.
(3)
Sub-projects shall be:
(a)
screened and approved based on their satisfaction of 
criteria as to their: (i) economic and technical feasibility; (ii) 
readiness for implementation; (iii) environmental impact; and (iv) 
consistency with Project objectives and the relevant sectoral strategy; 
and
(b)
rated in terms of priority based on their satisfaction of 
criteria as to their: (i) economic and social impact; (ii) 
distributional equity; (iii) requirements in terms of recurrent cost; 
and (iv) satisfaction of community needs.
Page  22
B.
Project Implementation
(1)
Sub-project implementation responsibility shall rest with: (a) the 
PMO and the education structure to be put by the Palestinian authority 
in place in Gaza with respect to education activities; (b) the 
municipalities with respect to water, waste water and sanitation and 
municipal roads activities, current road construction/ maintenance 
structure in Gaza; and (c) PMO and the agencies in Gaza to be designated 
by the Palestinian authority with respect to inter-urban road 
activities.
(2)
For preparation and implementation of Sub-projects, the following 
procedures shall be followed:
(a)
Implementing Agencies shall prepare any such project 
proposals with the assistance of a qualified local engineering or 
architectural firm selected by such Implementing Agency from a 
pre-qualified panel of such firms identified by PMO;
(b)
upon the approval of a priority Sub-project according to the 
criteria referred to in paragraph A (3) of this Schedule, the Borrower 
shall budget for such Sub-project in its Program;
(c)
thereafter, the Borrower shall issue an authorization letter 
to the relevant Implementing Agency indicating: (i) the amount allocated 
for the Sub-project; (ii) a brief description of the Sub-project; (iii) 
the proposed implementation methods and duration; and (iv) reporting, 
financial and other requirements;
(d)
responsibility for conclusion of contracts costing not more 
than $250,000 equivalent, required for implementation of this 
Sub-Project, and shall rest with the Implementing Agency. For contracts 
exceeding such amount, the approval of PMO shall be required;
(e)
payments due under contracts shall be certified by the 
Implementing Agency, confirmed by PMO and effected through the concerned 
financial office of the Borrower; and
(f)
PMO shall maintain an up-dated record of Sub-projects and of 
contracts concluded thereunder.
(3)
Maintenance of Accounts and Reporting:
The Borrower shall:
(a)
ensure the maintenance by Implementing Agencies of records, 
accounts and underlying documentation related to their activities under 
the Project;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Administrator quarterly reports 
on the status of project implementation; and
(c)
undertake, jointly with the Administrator, semi-annual 
reviews of the Project for the purpose of agreeing on such adjustments 
to the components, or implementation and financing arrangements of the 
Project as may be required to achieve the objective thereof.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
Page  23
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this 
Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the 
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit 
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined 
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V 
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
Page  24
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; 
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator 
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Admini-strator) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Admini-strator shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Admini-strator into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund 
to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
