Document of            FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3225-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SIXTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
March 3, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborizatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 100           US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton paddy (gabah) = 630 kg milled rice
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DGA           -  Directorate General Agraria
DGFCA         -  Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture (in Ministry
of Agriculture)
DGH           -  Directorate of Highways (in MPW)
DGWRD         -  Directorate General of Water Resources Development (in MPW)
DPMA          -  Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering (in DGWRD)
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
district and village authorities
IPEDA         -  Land Tax
MPW           -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M           -  Operation and Maintenance
PIBD/PROSIDA  -  Special agencies within DGWRD responsible for implementing
Bank Group-assisted water resource projects
REPELITA      -  National Development Plan



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SIXTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $37 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 11.6% per annum
Project
Description:  The proposed project, which continues Bank Group support for
irrigation development in Indonesia, would comprise construc-
tion of the second stage of the Sitiung irrigation system in
Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems
of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD); training and support for water users and their
associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung
River Basin and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam. The
project would create a demand for some 21 million man-days
of labor over the construction period, and would increase
rice production by about 36,000 tons/year by 1990. The main
risk facing the project is that in the Sitiung II component,
agricultural benefits might build up slower than projected,
however, sensitivity analysis indicates that this risk lies
within tolerable limits. Other project components including
designs and studies of future projects and assistance to
DGWRD for institution building, bear low risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                       Local    Foreign    Total
…-($ million) …---
Sitiung II, construction of
irrigation systems                  19.8      13.8        33.6
Designs and studies                     1.9      3.6         5.5
Institutional support                  6.9       7.5        14.4
Base cost                           28.6      24.9        53.5
Physical contingencies                  4.8      4.5         9.3
Expected price increases                8.7      5.1        13.8
Total Project Costs /1              42.1      34.5        76.6
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
-------   million -------
Bank                                    2.5     34.5        37.0
Government                            39.6        -         39.6
Total                               42.1      34.5        76.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY              1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
…       ------ ($ m±±lion) -------…------
Annual                 1.5   6.0   6.5   6.0   6.0   7.0   4.0
Cumulative            1.5   7.5  14.0  20.0  26.0  33.0  37.0
Rate of Return: 18% on construction works, representing 63% of the
project's base costs. Other project components have non
quantifiable returns.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 3649-IND, dated March 3, 1982
/1 Costs include 5% taxes on civil works ($2.3 million).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE SIXTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $37 million to help
finance the Sixteenth Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 147 mil-
lion people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The population
growth rate between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3% per annum. The population density
exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population live, but
averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country; 80% of the
population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated to be $430.13
4.        The Indonesian economy has a highly diversified resource base, with
plentiful primary energy resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber
potential and a developed system of agricultural commodity production and
export. However, the dominant feature of the 1970s has been the rise to
prominence of the oil sector. Net oil exports rose from $0.6 billion in
1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, at which time the oil sector accounted
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on Second Teacher
Training Project (No. P-3214-IND) circulated under cover of R82-38, dated
February 25, 1982, and scheduled to be considered by the Executive
Directors on March 16, 1982.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1980.



- 2 -
for almost 70% of both exports and Central Government domestic revenues. As a
consequence the country's resource position has been highly sensitive to terms
of trade developments. Following the second oil price hike a resource deficit
turned into a substantial surplus (of $3.6 billion in 1980/81) and the current
account moved into surplus for the first time in two decades. In 1981/82
declining real oil prices, combined with weak prices for other commodities and
the recession in OECD countries, contributed to a reversal of this position,
with a resource deficit estimated at $0.8 billion. The effects of these
dramatic changes are still working their way through the system. However, the
infusion of foreign exchange into the economy has certainly contributed to a
highly favorable growth performance, despite weak production linkages between
the oil enclave and the rest of the economy. A sustained growth rate of
almost 8% per annum for over a decade is higher than that of any other
low-income country. While oil has played an important part, it should be
stressed that the initial impetus to this growth occurred in the period of
recovery from the severe dislocation of the 1960s. The Government of
Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore and then maintain macro-
economic stability, liberalize the economy and provide incentives for
investment. There was a major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure,
and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP. Throughout the period growth
has been well diversified, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per
annum in agriculture to 12% per annum in manufacturing and construction.
However, despite this favorable growth performance, the economy is still
underdeveloped, with a share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a
persistent deficit on the nonoil current account.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural/urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population. Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period. Because



the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby encour-
aging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in pcverty alleviation.
7.        Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains inadequate, and only 12% of the population has access to safe
water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia-s past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. This will require two broad types of policy measure. First, there
is a need for substantial investments in economic and social infrastructure.
Increasing the capacity of the transport network and electric power system
will be critical to sustain the rapidly expanding demands of the productive
sectors of the economy. Second, this must be complemented by improvements in
the policy environment to provide an appropriate incentive structure for
private sector investment. This is illustrated for the major economic
sectors.
9.        In the industrial sector, GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments; in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for both
employment and exports is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries.
GOI is now backing this with a general review of the trade regime, with a view
to removing the distortions due to the wide variation in rates of effective
protection, and a strong push for the expansion of non-oil exports, including
financing arrangements, improved ports procedures, export processing



zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the
private sector also suffers from significant domestic constraints to its
expansion, notably a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial system.
Further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to private
investment are needed to alleviate these constraints.
10.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia also faces a
potentially serious structural energy problem. Oil and gas now account for
98% of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
earnings from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify
energy usage, in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower
and geothermal potential. This will require both a major investment program
in this decade and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more
efficient energy use. In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by
over 60%. This was a decisive step toward the reduction of a major
distortion in the economy; it followed similar increase of about 40% in May
1980 and demonstrated the GOI's commitment to tackle this politically
difficult issue. However, domestic prices are still only about 55% of the
opportunity cost on average, and price relativities between products diverge
widely from those prevailing on the international market.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production and
employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level of
about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier,
largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agricultural
technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of adequate seeds
and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of
distribution and marketing.
12.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, and in recent
years GOI has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to the expansion of
the system. However, the high rates of unemployment amongst secondary school
leavers suggest there may be problems of mismatch between supply and demand at
some levels. In the short run there is scope for better utilization of
existing manpower through stopgap training schemes, while available foreign
exchange resources could be used to finance fellowships abroad and, in the



5-
interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is also a strong justification for
the use of incremental resources in the health sector. However, increased
outlays on health infrastructure will have to be complemented by the develop-
ment of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems,
involving the participation of local communities. The successful family
planning program provides a good model.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
13.       The dramatic increase of oil revenues in the 1970s allowed a large
expansion in GOI s expenditure including subsidies (especially on petroleum
products) and resulted in a relative neglect of the nonoil tax effort; non-
oil taxes contributed less than 9% of total non-mining GDP in 1980/81. The
constancy of oil prices in 1981-82 and the consequent real decline in
revenues, suddenly brought forward the problem of domestic resource
mobilization, at a time of rapidly expanding development finance requirements.
The two major policy measures required are a steady rise in domestic oil
prices to reflect opportunity cost, and an improvement in the tax effort. The
1982/83 budget represents a significant effort in these directions. First,
the budgetary subsidy on petroleum products has been reduced from an annual
level of over $3 billion to less than $1.5 billion. Second, domestic nonoil
tax revenues have been budgeted to increase by over 15% in real terms, with
the major emphasis on improved administration and collection procedures.
14.       Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$15 billion at the end of 1980; while undisbursed debt amounted to an
additional $9 billion. On the basis of present projections of development
financing requirements and external resources deficits, there will be a
continued need for significant inflows of foreign savings in the 1980s. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance (ODA), to the country.
However during the 1970s Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transforma-
tion in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on
official concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. The fact that
Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the
efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far
the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity depends on
commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes
Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to price developments in international
markets. The implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent,
and that there will be a continued justification for official debt of long
maturities and fixed interest in the 1980s. Present projections suggest that
Indonesia's financing requirements can be met with the debt service ratio
remaining below 20% throughout the decade.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%, respec-
tively.  Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with th^ conclusions of the basic  ^onomic report, requ.:ed greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part 1, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on Second Teacher
Training Project (No. P-3214-IND) circulated under cover of R82-38,
dated February 25, 1982, and scheduled to be considered by the Executive
Directors on March 16, 1982.



- 7 -
18.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, new sector work and
continued lending will concentrate on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and
treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
19.       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to be
related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both mana-
gerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and
the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited
Inlonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying
budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted
formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general and project-
specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement
seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a
consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting have been identified as one of the major causes of
implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as
a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected
in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million
in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. While it is important that the Bank
and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are encouraging.
20.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country-s improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.



- 8 -
21.       The proposed project constitutes the eighth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
Highway, Eleventh Power, Second Seeds, Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport and Rural Roads Development projects have already been approved by
the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Board Documents for the Second
Textbook, Second Teacher Training, Seventeenth Irrigation and National
Fertilizer Distribution projects have been circulated for consideration by
the Executive Directors. Projects under advanced stage of preparation and
appraisal are the Sixth Nucleus Estate Project, Coal Exploration Engineering
and Third Transmigration Projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
22.       Objectives.  GOI's major objectives for the agricultuiral and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied
land, water and other natural resources.
23.       Despite a 4% average annual growth of production, agriculture's
share of GDP has declined from 40% to 30% since 1968, while its share of
exports dropped from 45% to 33% due mainly to the markedly increased value
of oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector remains of
overwhelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians; nearly 80% of
the population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source of
income for about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households.  Some 15.6 million smallholder families produce subsistence and
cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha
produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco.
Development Strategies
24.       Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1978 it accounted for
61% of total employment. Nevertheless, agriculture remained by far the
largest single source (with 42%) of new employment during 1971-78 (para. 6).
Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land
reclamation and irrigation development, including both GOI-sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems,
which generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue
to provide additional construction and farm work.
25.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources,
GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred
staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased



- 9 -
rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit
program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77, in the
wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private
sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and
unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant
hopper and associated viruses. In 1978 rice production increased by 10%
with favorable weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution,
and nationwide GOI-sponsored distribution of recently introduced pest-
resistant varieties. Rice production in 1979 increased only 2% over 1978
due, mainly, to insufficient rainfall. In 1980 one of the largest
proportional increases (13%) in national rice production since records have
been kept, of over 20 million tons milled rice equivalent was achieved and
preliminary estimates of 1981 production are 21.6 million tons. Over the
past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans,
peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an average of only 1.6%
p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area (much of this land
shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in yield. Due to the
bumper rice harvests of 1980, Indonesian rice imports declined in that year
to about 1.4 million tons, a considerable turnaround from the previous three
years.
26.       To prevent a widening food production consumption gap,
productivity and area under rice and secondary food crops must be increased.
In Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised through water storage,
ground water development, and flood control projects although relocation of
inhabitants of reservoir sites may delay progress. Yields and cropping
intensity can also be increased by improving water management at all levels
which will require increased Operation and Management (O&M) efforts of
GOI-operated and farmer-operated systems. In the Other Islands there is
potential for new irrigation and swamp reclamation schemes which GOI is in
the process of developing. Yields of existing varieties of secondary food
crops could be increased by improved husbandry, including fertilizers and
insecticides.
27.       Tree Crops.  GOI has embarked on a major effort to develop
smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its national rubber and
coconut replanting and transmigration programs. One of the GOITs main
approaches has been to use public estate companies to plant tree crops on
land to be settled by local landless families as well as by transmigrants.
These companies clear the land and provide settlers with planting material,
other inputs, processing and marketing facilities. This approach is
appropriate in view of constraining management and technical capabilities.
28.       Area Development and Transmigration.  In 1980, about 88 million
people lived in Java, at a density approaching 650 persons/sq km. The
island, with 7% of Indonesia-s land area, has 45% of the cropped area and



- 10 -
62% of the population. Java generally has more fertile soils and better
infrastructure than the Other Islands; however, its cultivable land is
almost fully utilized. In some watersheds cultivation already exceeds
ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion, flooding, and
siltation of reservoirs, irrigation canals and ports. GOI is preparing
integrated watershed development projects to address this problem. The
primary program for new area development in the Other Islands, as well as
for creating employment and settlement nuclei for Javanese migrants, is
transmigration. An organized transmigration program is important for
regional and natural resource development in the Other Islands, production
of food and export crops, and creation of employment and decent living
conditions for landless Javanese.
29.       Role of GOI.  While the private sector should be encouraged to
expand its role in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, GOI
continues to bear the major responsibility for infrastructure, resource
conservation, and other services. Despite marked improvements over
the past decade, technical and managerial manpower constraints continue to
impede planning and rapid implementation of agricultural and rural develop-
ment, including irrigation and drainage works. GOI must therefore continue
to strengthen its key rural development institutions, particularly through
education, recruitment, training and retention of technical manpower.
30.       Bank Lending for Agriculture.  Since the first of 16 irrigation
and swamp reclamation projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group's
agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to include estate and smallholder
tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar, livestock,
fisheries, research, extension, training, seeds, transmigration, and
resource survey and mapping. The Operations Evaluation Department's Sector
Operations Review of Bank Group agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report
No. 2166, dated August 9, 1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some
projects, the Bank's portfolio was "of overall good quality and likely to
contribute substantially to increased production."  Within the context of
GOI's agricultural objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III,
future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a) irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp reclamation to
intensify rice cropping on Java and to expand water resources
infrastructure in the Other Islands;
(b) smallholder and nucleus estate tree crop planting programs
including industrial forest estates; and
(c) area development projects aimed at watershed management to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java; and transmigration.



- 11 -
Bank Assistance to the Irrigation Subsector
31.       The Bank has provided $757.5 million for project assistance in
irrigation and has played a significant role in Indonesian irrigation devel-
opment since 1968. The earliest Bank supported irrigation projects were
designed to rehabilitate major systems to quickly increase rice production.
Later projects upgraded existing systems and financed drainage and flood
protection works and tertiary networks. Bank assistance was channeled
through two special agencies /1 of the Directorate General of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) which were set up to implement Bank projects,
but now supports also operations of the Directorate of Rivers, (Loan
1691-IND) the Directorate of Swamps (Loan 1958-IND), and the Directorate of
Planning and Programming (Cr. 995-IND). The first four Bank-assisted
irrigation projects have been completed and performance audits issued./2 The
most serious problems were construction delays and cost overruns. Delays
arose mostly because of GOI's unfamiliarity with international procurement
procedures, cumbersome local bidding, contracting and fund release
procedures, and shortage of local funds. However, the cost increases were
more than offset by higher rice prices, and economic rates of return of the
four projects are expected to exceed 40%.
32.       These lessons, together with those learned from the staff s own
reviews /3 and supervision, were taken into account in formulating and
implementing subsequent projects.  Appraisal quantity and cost estimates are
nci based on final designs for at least the first year's work program and
major structures. Multi-year contracts with price escalation provisions,
standard contract documents and standard bid evaluation procedures have been
introduced together with mobilization and prompt payment provisions. How-
ever, despite these measures and the remarkable success of DGWRD in expand-
ing its overall activities, many projects, including those financed by the
Bank, still suffer delays, primarily during the startup period.
33.       The major causes and the actions being taken to address them are
discussed below:
(a) Delays in land acquisition. Possible Bank assistance is being dis-
cussed to strengthen the Directorate General Agraria (DGA), which
is responsible for land acquisition and registration. Measures
have been agreed to use private surveyors or DGWRD surveyors where
DGA capacity is insufficient. Assurances were obtained during
/1 PROSIDA and PIBD
/2 Credit 127-IND, PPAR Report No. 2047, May 1978. Credits 195, 220 and
289-IND, PPAR Report No. 3269, December 1980.
/3 The Irrigation Program Survey (No. 705-IND), April 15, 1975 and the
Irrigation Program Review (No. 2027a-IND), October 16, 1978.



- 12 -
negotiations for the sixteenth irrigation project that all land
rights required for construction would be acquired in the year
preceding construction (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) Inadequate contractor capacity and construction standards. A
training project to upgrade the capabilities of the Ministry
of Public Works'staff and private contractors is being appraised
by the Bank. The Bank is also assisting GOI to review
construction industry policies and procedures with a view to
making improvements;
(c) Difficulties with surveying and mapping. The Bank has recommended
and GOI is implementing improvements for quality standards.
Equipment to expand and modernize surveying and mapping, and
training of contractors and DGWRD supervisory staff is being
provided under Irrigation XV (Cr. 995-IND); and
(d) Delayed fund releases. GOI's budget system and fund release
procedures have been improved, and training in procurement and
disbursement procedures given to staff. Measures to improve
budget processes in DGWRD have been initiated.
34.       These steps to improve project implementation performance have
been accompanied by an increasing dialogue between the Bank and GOI towards
strengthening DGWRD's institutional capacity. The critical areas being
addressed include improving planning and programming, particularly with res-
pect to strengthening DGWRD's project appraisal capacities (Cr. 995-IND);
streamlining the flow of management information related to resolving
problems of project implementation, so that managers can take earlier
remedial actions whenever necessary; reducing the administrative and
executive burden on the Director General, and increasingly delegating
responsibilities; progressively reducing the extensive use of foreign
consultants employed by DGWRD for feasibility and engineering design work,
and to a lesser extent for construction supervision; and reviewing the DGWRD
work program and budgets proposed from 1982/83 to 1988/89 and the relevant
institutional implications. It is expected that this increasing focus on
institutional issues should enable the Bank to move progressively towards
sector lending.
Disbursement Performance and Trends
35.       Disbursements of previous Bank irrigation Loans reflect the delayed
project implementation schedules discussed above. Currently, cumulative
disbursements (Irrigation V-XV) run at about 55% of appraisal estimates,
with little difference between projects. This performance is in line with
experience for irrigation projects supported by the Bank in the Region, and
with other sectors in Indonesia. Progress has been made in improving
disbursements (which were below 50% in FY80) through more intensive



- 13 -
supervision by the Bank's staff resident in Indonesia, the use of statements
of expenditures for small civil works contracts, and by accelerating start-up
activities of new projects. For the sixteenth irrigation project consultant
short lists and proposed direct invitations for consulting services were
agreed with the Bank at appraisal, and evaluations of proposals were in
progress at the time of negotiations. During negotiations GOI agreed that the
notice of award for the most important start-up civil works contract for
project construction will have been issued before Loan Effectiveness (Section
5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). These actions, together with other actions
in progress to reduce project implementation delays (para. 33) are expected to
result in progressive improvement.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was identified by DGRWD and the Bank in 1978
and prepared by GOI with the assistance of consultants financed under Loan
1435-IND. The project was appraised in May 1981. A Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 3649-IND) is being circulated separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington from January 28 to February 9, 1982, with a GOI delegation led by
Mr. Soebandi Wirosoemarto. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III.
37.       The proposed project will include: (a) construction of Stage II of
an irrigation scheme constructed with Bank support (Ln. 1435-IND) primarily to
serve a transmigration settlement at Sitiung, in Sumatra, to serve about 7,600
ha /1 which will also substitute gravity supplies for water provided by a
temporary pumping station for some 3,300 ha developed under Stage I; (b) a
river basin study for irrigation/drainage development at Cisanggarung; (c)
detailed design of the Jatigede Dam; (d) strengthening of DGWRD's management
information systems; (e) assisting the Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering
(DPMA) to extend its hydrologic data network and data processing; (f)
expanding training programs for water users; and (g) assisting DGWRD executing
agencies and East Java's Provincial Irrigation Service to upgrade financial
control and auditing procedures.
38.       The Sitiung II scheme will comprise construction of irrigation
systems fed by two rivers: the Piruko and the Siat. Works for the Piruko
system will comprise a 10 km long access road to the diversion site; a masonry
diversion weir and a concrete stilling basin; a 17.5 km headrace canal for 7.5
cu m/sec, and related structures; canal structures and inter-farm networks for
about 1,100 ha, land clearing of about 420 ha and rice field levelling and
/1 of which about 6,700 ha would be developed for rice fields.



- 14 -
bunding about 770 ha. Works for the Siat system will comprise a 3 km long
access road to the diversion site, a masonry diversion weir, a concrete
stilling basin and an earth embankment; a 24.5 km long headrace canal and
structures between the diversion weir and the Batang Siat main canal; main
and secondary canals, river crossing and canal structures north and south of
the Siat to serve a total area of about 6,500 ha; tertiary networks to serve
the same 6,500 ha; land clearing by contract of about 1,400 ha and rice field
clearing, levelling and bunding of about 5,300 ha. Consulting services will
be provided for construction supervision of both the Piruko and Siat systems.
Assurances have been obtained that land clearing, leveling and bunding will be
supervised by the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and Ministry of
Agriculture (Secton 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       The project will include consulting services for preparation of a
master plan for development of the 1,800 sq km Cisanggarung River Basin in
West Java, including the Padakaton Drainage Block and the Malahayu Reservoir;
and detailed design of the Jatigede dam, appurtenant facilities and power
plant also in Java.
40.       Institutional support will include consulting services for improving
DGWRD management information systems, paying particular attention to studying
which management functions and systems should be common to the other MPW
Directorate Generals and coordinated through the MPW Secretary General's
Office, including a progressive introduction of computer based systems, con-
struction of about 90 automatic water level recorder stations, about 30
automatic rainfall recording stations, and about 40 climatological stations in
various parts of Indonesia and consulting services to assist in conducting
studies (such as flood frequencies, rainfall-runoff relationships), analyze
hydrologic data and publish hydrologic yearbooks; construction and equipment
for classrooms and dormitories for DGWRD's water user training centers at
Surabaya and Cirebon and for Directorate General of Food Crop Agriculture
(DGFCA's) training center at Cirebon and consulting services provided to train
extension services, irrigation and local government officials and water users
in operation of tertiary systems and their maintenance; and consulting
services for the improvement of financial control and auditing procedures of
DGWRD's executive bodies and the East Java Irrigation Service.
Policy and Institutional Objectives Sought through the Project
41.       Apart from the production-oriented objectives of constructing the
Sitiung II irrigation system (para. 38), the project will address also an
important policy issue - the role of water user associations and a clear
definition of responsibility amongst the several government agencies working
with such associations. Although associations have been formed before con-
structing tertiary networks the formal associations have sometimes cut across
traditional arrangements between farmers. Increasingly the traditional groups
are being reactivated or expanded instead, with good results. Experience
with the massive national tertiary program has pointed to the need to consult



- 15 -
farmers and their associations earlier and to a greater extent during the
design phase to ensure that they agree fully with the objectives and opera-
tional procedures, and afterwards operate and maintain the systems properly.
Without such consensus, the works constructed have sometimes not been properly
used or maintained. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this
will be done (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       The second problem relates to the multiplicity of official contacts
for water user associations. At present the Provincial irrigation services,
DGFCA extension services, and the local administrations of the Ministry of
Home Affairs have sometimes overlapping responsibility for training and
supporting water user associations. For instance, the farmer groups organized
by the extension services for the training and visit system in irrigated areas
sometimes do not coincide with water user association membership patterns. As
agreed at negotiations, GOI will review the present responsibilities of the
different agencies and after consultation with the Bank, will implement any
changes needed (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       During negotiations, GOI and the Bank further discussed the need to
improve DGWRD budget procedures and systems. GOI indicated it expected to
progressively introduce and improve computer based systems which would clearly
identify annual and multiyear budget commitments for projects under
construction, proposed new projects, and proposed sources of funding. The GOI
also informed the Bank it would make available to the Bank for comment the
projected five-year DGWRD development budget and work program, and by May 1 of
each year, the approved annual budget.
Organization and Management
44.       The Sitiung II irrigation systems construction will be the respon-
sibility of PIBD, which is successfully implementing the Sitiung I works.
Detailed design and preparation of tender documents has been completed for
irrigation systems serving 7,600 ha. Designs of the two headrace canals of
the Batang Piruko and Batang Siat systems are substantially completed and
should be finalized by April 1982. Investigations and design of the two
headworks are expected to be completed by June 1982. Land clearing will
be the responsibility of Directorate of Highways (DGH), and levelling and
bunding by farmers would be supervised by DGFCA. The Cisanggarung study will
be carried out by consultants engaged by the Project Cimanuk of DGWRD's
Directorate of Rivers, and the Jatigede Dam detailed design by consultants for
the same agency. Terms of Reference for the Cisanggarung Basin Study were
prepared in June 1981 and have been agreed with the Bank. Studies for the
updating of an earlier feasibility study for the Jatigede Dam are nearing
completion, and detailed design would follow. Water user training will be
implemented by PROSIDA, with the close collaboration and participation of the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Home Affairs. The collection and



- 16 -
processing of hydrologic data will be the responsibility of DGWRD's
Directorate of Hydrology (DPMA), while the DGWRD Secretariat will implement
the remainder of the project. All implementing agencies have received prior
Bank support.
Technical Assistance
45.       In its drive to achieve ambitious irrigation targets, DGWRD will
continue to rely heavily on consultants for project preparation and for
assistance in construction supervision, while using its limited in-house
capacity to supervise consultant activities. GOI encourages the use and
expansion of local consulting services. Under the project, over 50% of
professional inputs for design and 100% of technical services for the
management information systems will be furnished by local consultants who
will provide about 670 m/m of engineering services.  About 480 m/m of inter-
nationally recruited consultants will be needed for feasibility studies,
detailed designs, and training for which local expertise is not yet avail-
able. Consultants' feasibility work will be supervised by the Directorate
of Planning and Programming and its consultants (provided under Cr. 995).
Selection of consultants with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank will be made in accordance
with principles and procedures described in the Bank's Guidelines (Section
3.02 of the draft-Loan Agreement).  A small number of vehicles will be
provided for rapid start up of consultant work and procured through
consultants contracts.- All other vehicles required are available from
previous projects assisted by the Bank, or will be provided by GOI under
reserve procurement.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       Total project costs are estimated at $76.6 million, with a foreign
currency component of $34.5 million or about 45X. Project costs are expressed
in end-1981 prices and are derived from adjusted costs of ongoing works and
for Sitiung II on updated bills of quantities and unit costs derived from
Sitiung I now nearing completion. Estimated monthly base costs of local and
foreign consultants are $2,500 and $12,500 respectively for engineers and
$1,000 for local technicians and draftsmen. Physical contingencies of 15%
have been added to all works and services except Sitiung where 20% has been
added. Estimated price increases have been calculated on the basis of
projected inflation rates: for local costs, 14% in 1982, 12% in 1983 and
10% thereafter; for foreign costs - 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983 to 1985, and 6%
thereafter.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of $37 million would finance about 50% of
project costs, exclusive of taxes ($2.3 million) and reserve procurement of
vehicles ($0.1 million). The remaining $39.6 million (Rp 24.8 billion) would
be provided by GOI annual budget appropriation. GOI agreed to ensure
availability of sufficient liquid funds to cover budgeted expenditures to
be required by the implementing agencies under the Project during each GOI
fiscal year not later than May 1 of each year (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursements
48.       Civil Works.  Because of the remote location of the site and the
satisfactory performance of national contractors presently completing Stage I
works (financed under Loan 1435-IND), it will not be attractive or more cost
effective to procure works through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Works have been grouped in 11 packages which will be procured through
nationally advertised competitive bidding. In addition there will be a
number of small contracts for tertiary construction, which would also be
procured by competitive bidding advertised locally. All works will be
tendered on the basis of standard contract documents agreed with the Bank in
September 1980, and procured in accordance with GOI procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. All multiyear contracts will include appropriate
escalation clauses. The Bank will review prior to tendering and award, nine
civil works contracts each of whose estimated cost is equivalent to
$1.5 million or more, in aggregate, covering about 75% of the value of civil
works.
49.       Equipment and Materials Procurement.  A total of about $4.0 million
worth of equipment will be acquired. Hydrologic, climatologic and
communication equipment (about $2.0 million) will be procured under ICB.
Local manufacturers will be granted a preference of 15% of the c.i.f. price
of imported goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower. The remaining
equipment could not conveniently be grouped into sufficiently large packages
to attract international bidders, and will be procured through GOI
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Equipment contracts for
about $2 million (about 50% of the total value of equipment furnished under
this project) procured through ICB will be reviewed by the Bank prior to
tendering and award.
50.       Loan Disbursements will be made against full documentation at
30% of total expenditures for civil works for the construction of headworks
and irrigation systems of Sitiung Stage II; 50% of total expenditures for
civil works for DGWRD's management information systems and extension of
DPMA's hydrologic network; 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for
locally manufactured equipment and 65% of locally procured, off-the shelf
items; and 100% of consultants costs. Disbursements will be effected
against quarterly statements of expenditure at 100% of total expenditures
for water user training, including facilities, training materials, per diems
and lecturer honorariums, and at 30% for tertiary networks at Sitiung II.
Documents in support of the statements of expenditures would be retained by
PIBD and PROSIDA and made available for inspection by Bank supervision
missions.
Accounts and Audits
51.       The Bank has assisted PROSIDA, PIBD and Project Cimanuk in estab-
lishing accounting systems which satisfy Bank requirements. Although the



- 18 -
accounting and auditing systems have provided reasonable financial control
for Bank-supported projects, improvements are desirable in the timeliness of
annual accounts and audits; systems of internal control, especially for the
reconciliation of assets with cumulative expenditures and procedures for
writing off assets. State auditors should also prepare long form reports
following specific guidelines for each agency to be reviewed with the Bank.
Consultant accountants will be employed to advise GOI on measures to be
taken in line with these recommendations and to review accounting and
financial control systems for all DGWRD agencies implementing Bank-supported
projects. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that project implemen-
ting agencies will maintain separate accounts for each subproject; engage
auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit these accounts; and submit to the
Bank, within nine months of the close of each fiscal year, audited state-
ments, together with the, auditors comments (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
52.       Operation and maintenance of headworks, main and secondary systems
of the Sitiung irrigation development will be managed by PIBD's O&M unit for
two years following construction. Following this, provincial irrigation
services will take over the system for routine O&M. Tertiary systems will be
operated and maintained by water users in each tertiary block. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that GOI will allocate sufficient annual O&M
funds and staff to operate and maintain the main and secondary systems
satisfactorily (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
53.       PIBD will monitor the operation and maintenance of the Sitiung
Scheme for a period of at least two years following completion of Stage II.
DGFCA will monitor seasonally cropped areas and production after system
completion. Organization and evaluation of the monitoring activities will be.
the responsibility of the Evaluation Section, Directorate of Planning and
Programming, which is being strengthened with Bank assistance (Cr. 995-IND).
Agricultural Support Services
54.       Agricultural support services have been strengthened with Bank
Group assistance under the National Food Crops Extension and Second National
Agricultural Extension Projects (Ln. 1267-IND and Cr. 996-IND). In the
Sitiung project area, extension services are in place in transmigrant
settlements, as are land clearing services. These services are expected to
be adequate for the project.
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
55.       Farmers in Indonesia pay a national land tax (IPEDA) and water
charges. IPEDA is collected by the village head and turned over to local
and provincial administration public services. IPEDA is assessed as a



- 19 -
percentage of crop production. Transmigrant farmers in Sitiung will be
expected to pay IPEDA of about $16/ha when their land is fully developed and
the settlement is transferred to local government responsibility. Water
charges will be collected by water users associations and earmarked for
operation by a ditchrider (ulu-ulu) of the irrigation system below the
secondary turnouts (i.e., tertiary and quaternary canals and drains). The
level of charges averages some 25 kg of paddy per ha for each cropping
season. This amount is sufficient to pay for the services of the ditchrider
and his assistants; sometimes ditchriders receive a plot of village-owned
land in lieu of charges. To maintain systems, water charges of $10/ha per
year are expected to be collected.
56.       Per capita incomes of indigeneous farmers are estimated at $110
without the project, increasing to $185 with the project. Transmigrant
farmers per capita incomes are estimated at $71 without the project and $136
with the project. Per capita incomes are much lower than the national per
capita income estimated to be $430 for 1980./i The current estimate of
absolute poverty income in Indonesia is $112 per capita per year rising to
about $134 by 1990. More than 90% of the benefitting farm families are
rural poor.
57.       The direct cost recovery index, which is the ratio of the present
value of incremental revenue (IPEDA and water charges) to the present value
of incremental financial costs of the project, is estimated at 4%. However,
the indirect cost recovery index, which is derived from government savings
for rice procurement, is about 106%./2 Taking into account both direct and
indirect cost recovery, farmers in the Sitiung project area would contribute
as much as $620/ha per year to government with a total cost recovery index
as high as about 110%. On average, farmers would pay about 12% of their net
profits (project rent) for IPEDA and water charges. This level is consid-
ered reasonable because most of the beneficiaries, especially transmigrants,
are poor.
/1 Although comparisons of farm income based on farm budgets with income
data based on national accounts must be interpreted with caution they
are an approximation of the relative poverty of project beneficiaries.
/2 Without the project, GOI would have to import rice at a price
equivalent to $356/ton in 1985 as paddy, while with the project it could
procure paddy on the local market at a substantially lower price of
$195/ton, resulting in a gross saving of about $160/ton. This is
equivalent to a net saving of about $142/ton, after netting out
government subsidies on fertilizers and agrochemicals, which could be
considered an indirect cost recovery from farmers.



- 20 -
Benefits and Justification
58.       The Sitiung II scheme would increase food crop production, employ-
ment opportunities, government savings, and reduce rural poverty. About
36,000 tons of paddy would be produced annually. About 38,000 people or 7,000
families would benefit directly, while about 1,000 families of landless
laborers would benefit indirectly. Civil works would generate some 21 million
man-days of construction labor. The project would create a demand of about
two million man-days of farm labor each year equivalent to about 6,000
additional full-time jobs. More than 90% of project farmers are rural poor,
and would increase their family income by about 150-200%. GOI would save
foreign exchange of about $20 million annually by reducing rice imports.
Investment costs per benefitting family to achieve these benefits are about
$4,500, in line with normal costs for construction of new irrigation systems.
59.       Economic rates of return (ERR) on investments are 18% for irrigation
construction at Sitiung (63% of base costs). Sensitivity analyses indicate
that ERR is not unduly sensitive to investment cost increases and that a delay
on construction completion by about 7 years, or a 50% decrease in benefit
streams would not jeopardize the economic viability of the project. Other
project components have nonquantifiable returns.
Risks
60.       The project does not entail major risks.  Very high cost overruns
and very long delays would have to occur to render the project unattractive.
The development of Sitiung II, though clearly depending on increasing the
soils initial low productivity, is supported by encouraging results from a
contiguous irrigation project and cropping trials in the area. The risk is
small considering GOI's commitment to support Javanese farmers resettled in
this area, and the economic robustness of the proposed development. Institu-
tional strengthening and studies and designs have little risk of failure, and
DGWRD's capacity to supervise consultant technical assistance is being
strengthened with Bank assistance (CR 995-IND) to ensure high quality work.
Environmental Impact
61.       Irrigation development at Sitiung is the second phase of ongoing
agricultural development in the area involving land clearing and conversion
to rice paddies from scrub and secondary forest sometimes interspersed by
rubber trees. Displaced fauna will relocate to adjacent forested upland areas
which are extensive and likely to remain in their natural state for many years
to come. Intensive development will have a minor effect on flora when
balanced against the vast natural forests surrounding the site. The use of
water from two small tributaries of the Batang Hari will have an equally small
effect on river hydrology or fauna in one of Sumatra's largest river systems.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III. Of particular note is the special condition of effective-
ness, that at least one of two contracts for construction of the Batang
Piruko headrace in the Sitiung II subproject has been tendered, evaluated
and the notice of award issued by the Project Manager.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Article
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
A. W. Clausen
President
mby  Moeen A. Qureshi
At tachments
March 3, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS  WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ.MKM.O)- WOST RICE   ESTIMATE)L'S
TOTAL             I                                             HOST RECENT      LAW INCOME          MIDDLE IllKE
AGRICULTURAL     286.4                   1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC        ASIA A PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US4)                       80.0       140.0           370.0             232.3                1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         130.1        128.4           237.1            499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     94680.0    116143.0         142870.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)     14.6         17.1            19.8              17.3                  40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                  388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                            2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           49.3         60.5            74.4             153.6                 373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        355.9        417.9           487.3             360.3                2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             40.7         44.0            40.8             37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                             56.2         53.5            56.3             59.2                   56.7
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.1          2.5             2.9              3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTh RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.1          2.0             2.3               2.1                   2.3
URBAN                                  3.7          3.6             4.0              3.4                    3.8
CRUDE bIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.7         40.8            36.2              27.7                  29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         24.8         17.7            13.3              10.2                   7.5
GROSS RFPRODUCTION RATE                  3.0          2.8             2.3               2.5                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOKS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..       181.1          2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..          0.2            27.1             20.4                   44.1
IO0D AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              93.0        102.0           103.0             107.1                 123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       89.0         92.0           105.0             98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              41.0         41.0            47.0             56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            6.0          6.0             6.0              14.2                  19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         31.2         20.4            13.7              14.6                   4.8
HlALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.0         46.7     ,      53.0             57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               159.0       126.0           120.0              89.1                  50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   *-          3.0            12.0             30.1                   45.9
URBAN                                   ..         10.0            35.0             65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                   *-          1.0             6.0             20.1                   34.4
ALCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         12.0            15.0              17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                   ..         50.0            60.0              71.0                  71.0
RURAL                                    ..         4.0             5.0              4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             46778.7      26498.5         13644.4           3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..      7672.8          8851.9            6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL NED
TOTAL                               1364.1       1644.6          1606.0            1132.8                 588.5
URBAN                                251.8           ..           697.3            322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                   ..           ..          3159.0           5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..          ..            22.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  4.4          4.8
URBAN                                  4.9          5.3
RURAL                                   4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER UF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          1.5
URBAN                                   ..          1.6
RUKAL                                   *-          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URbAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..



ANNEX I
-23-                                                 Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEBKAGES
- HOST RECENT  eSTINATE)
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME         MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb      ESTIMATE Lb   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED SNROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0        78.0             94.0              85.9                    99.8
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0              94.4                  100,6
FEtALE                    58.0         73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0        16.0             22.0              38.OL"                 53.5
MALE                      10.0         21.0             27.0              34.67ii                58.4
FD(ALE                     3.0         11.0             18.0              18.O7                  48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)        20.0        22.0             20.0               3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 39.0        29.0             30.0              32.8                    34.2
SLCONDARY                               14.0        13.0             17.0              19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0         56.6             62.0             52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGZR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.0         2.1              3.5                1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2        22.0             38.5              35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1         0.8              7.3                3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ,,           ,.             17.7              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..           ..              0.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34752.5     41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.9        31.0             29.5              29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.8        66.3              59.1              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.4         9.7             11.8              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7         35.3            35.6               39.7                   40.2
KALE                                      54.2        49.5              50.1              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                    20.0        21.6             21.1               23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2          1.3              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT CF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HdOUSEHOLDS          ..        33.7/c            23.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOlSEHOLDS          ..        52.0oh           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         6.87T            6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF  WOUSEHOLDS          ..         17.37W          14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..           136.0             134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                     ..           ..           112.0              111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..           119.0                ..                   249.8
RURAL                                     ..           ..            98.0                ..                   234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            28.0              41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..            51.0              51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



-24-                                                                ~~~~~~~ANNEXI
IEPINITIUMS OF SOCIAL ISICATOES
Sets-:  Aichaugh the dots are dreen fetesrcsgnrlyudethsutatrne                                       ndeibe,tsouolo be totedI th.n they ca                    fotb      aitr
nat-ioaly teep-re1l hbos  ofte  ok of standedjed defiwitioi o                     _otpee usd'b  difero cunresi  cole Pnrt  the data.  The data are, P050
thla. ufu1 to desoIbe. orders of                  Ingiud.td.at  cres.ad                  -.ete   etit eaJor differsoce .beteeI tonris
The,eeeu   grupee   i  rho eae Iotr  group of the sub) cot c...c.  tel d (2)   I a...olry group einbeee                         igehvrg   ucm    bete   ler   ru
of te ebjut contr  (sceptlot'Caita  Suriu  dii fEpr--r" grop.  eht'tiddie  " -oe  North Afrioo  .d NIiddie fEet' te ob .e  b.caus  ofsrne
eoriwoulrrol  ffitttee  -        therefeencegrou Pdote lbs averges ar   ouoiowihe    rcetoneefreo   ulao   n   b                                 nyeSo
cejoron   of theotootres it sgroup ba datafor the  indicaor.  ttoe the  oterageof ooutriaesmtg  the  vdtoatre depsde or te aoaisb_lfnpof den
one toIo Itot ot a. ti.e.Pon  th  coryan  rfeetehrops
Total - Ttnel eura-e ere  Coepriing latd aro and Iwloo    eoe                                       ubn   t  rrl   ited  hy th               -b- rawtn,tsro  hoptl bade
Asiolur    i--efet  of egricliture1l ae   edtiprnl   r  esttl Ptelos it publictd.b                                             i ..ot  genera  sod spci (te  hospital and 
for  -rpa.psue, P      e-ar -ket sod kircheo gr.dats or to lie fallo;- 9(  dot.                      hlteintatr.   _opcl e err. eeto hid Pcaionote dprharte              l staffed
by a   es   n  ph     Ic    Teltabhent  prIItidio ,priecpelyot-
GNP PEa CAPITA fill) - GOp per capi.  eaI       etsat,retsoktpies    I-d_icr   r  otcc.ed-trlhoptl.hoer    ooushat
ouatdbysmerotrso   stods  bndlthAla   197-9hel);167                    adnstelcrrr  to -             reanl  etefad   yaphets (boy
.dae                                                                                              Adnisiots  se tooitaltedT-Tottirushe  of  IdeIssosbo/II cor
POPOLATisu 01(0 tITAI, tIATIIIICi   ,:"                                                      Id     I::, 
Tona  Pop lato. Itd-tIr (touoAc  -0 o.         Ji   1; 1911, 1977. sodi19(9                tAIlIN
Ost.                                                                                               veag  Sooo  huopseholo~ dYrtreon b oar hogbod( .          oa.cbl..o   ua
T..gcunris  1967197, od117960to.theb0oeholdfo  ete9siHOlUurpIrG
Pef ln       fioninrolli. fl-  oto    ouaiopostosr   hedc9.erl  enn                                                    ro  tf   ltrhoadoue              h.turhadrntioiona
tota  pulation by161 age~ so.a o.      htoere rd            farcl ocroacc                   .(tndittgA berccol. owdl ton  euoideootrer                   btet itrcIuced.d
)rjati    phPeer.o.......oe    oere  o   he   lol  enw                                       nocpedpre
and  ort  It  ir od fyot pojocc  prose.                                                    dnte   itolet   Dto
Sttinryoroeto-Iate  bttyppuato  tee  socgrob  fcafrmrcehol     obl. ae  odfcee-  r a  ttl,saenohael
tIallthrate.e.q.l.o,daitteudiategotutuea                                                        enoollsetofoireatb    prIia.y.ave bse   pet                -tgeO   teapctit
eatte cnstant.ThIn I.achieve  otipofro  fertl tip  ctee OsoTh e to                riar  ecut-ot    oolcin;oel    otoa  chidrnhge  b li
the  epiaemet leel  f utr ts  raeoducio  rat, o no  ach  eoesr tn                   (are  oo ajused  fr dffirot edgta-ofpriary   dnotiot  fo
oferseomerlaCe,",      ofenccy           hesalooyrplEDUso   usCATONtraatuteeidctosrletarasd                                                                             otn
le-rsta lunao oroiI lo It race      heyu hi=ttlccypplturpoie  genra. PotOna,  r  eahe   iratnin  losteotio   for- ui
only  19P17,  1970 a     fod           ll-l             ~          c 1976 data.Ynrl-naaberai-pran.ndoodr-Ttlsdeeerledo
Poroatit Ae Sruotte  perent  - tbtlrat(C-l (rre;  orito-on   (15  prasr  oo  eacndey Inal  dicdedby  eabte o  le` bae igth
lotfos for1957-O. 197-7.   a      _od n 1977-79,yI.Passeoger data. (car tboaee   enroltl-ol- Pasa -ga  cer  comris ..,otor.
population;    Y 196,p1977,iod 1979 reache                                                        all.Y- h.   llayr-l -y..o...b-iclas.lftyi.
Crude 1isat  lace, (pribnen)-  ot)  eth   arYonod  o   ify la12trlor  (pe  17ouasrd populatiorr.-pnil  ype  o  rscive    fr rdi
pplto;167.  1970  so.d i979 data.                                                        bodcsst  general Pubc.l par  -tbouesvd of  opslaio;sluean
Iross teproductiotla ts-vsra6a  tusbat of daughtrs aIoatoclbe   n                             ycee   r dcatore  toonetIfa an.d., toyerswhn   gse-ni.ofrai
beureleroudoaprodfheoainc1pr9o60-poiifr-etns    vffo9dcfrrony0tsyntendaalstc
ti iyra197sull   ioe-yas  'orgesdo   n16,17.sd199                                           uttuiisaoihdiotIdngT.                                                    11di
.Pse.iy  iU.lnS - Acotr.I-oua  (thousands 0-1Ana4               uhrofacpoe0  Ociee(s  ihousohod  dtouatio i -T   55                                        5frboa  att
of bylrtb-tnro   Asice6nersupi                        - of ..rtna  fgiyrantapote                   attlrhi    rtosn  popiidoo;ynouds   oioesh  iVncevr
Ps 6iy Panton-ear    (r7cen  ofd    rle    osi Iecett   f ote                                 it .o...i.e ed   i   sr   hnrginatgo   Vsoena                          fet
ofY11..  obrl-hero    g   i-uyas   h   s  hRrb-ocrpldetoecoNaora  Cittular tot (peethI                                           se  wwoato) -        ShunsIl   th  aagat-it-
Clodeniof Poo   (PruucIcoh crc Garbo 919-71bl7   -  Oo  fpe   aIt   cta                            ina      na  Alrcadocteh         Cpt.vrYar.Nse.nth.tebro
pdutionlo  all6 lu0d coodot7iea:glp.                                                                                                   ..d...nidaaa    o   ed  o  ikn    ol   uigtayer   eldt  aldauaoetoOto-I    i
Cr    hudd)R        Agrgaoilidoooodacroutr-hiaaonl..otftC
Ptatlona(aoar9g0 prdotprc97gt0                  glt,  67   t  17   us                          Total  ah979orce ihnua        Id) -      Jc.:o:.ll  acio    pss ,icludin
CP...aotta -n A-lccfcablorIfed-erceo.  inrvor  at(Copcelu                                          orafrsodtnlydbucaclaihg-,I sP ntvs,  suet.I                             etc.,
rnergyequi dlet - o P ntifod  soppl teioal  lcutypr  niucvrigprtcooo   lee. Deinitin   nvnu    oote   r
per dsp.  Aostlahie eupplien conprias doosetic  productiot, inponta ieee       tot coepareble; 1917. (677 sod79.1979.data.
euprca  an     _Joe   0ook    atsplinscld    cia   ed   so,rml  (rercet in-  s6ie  abor7frce a  pecntg  of tots  laborbl   force
qu noi-e used- In foo -pecsttg   and...      a  t d  cnrhoo.   tut-nr.cicucc   rre)-lbrfreitf-n,frstydutn   o
ciy  ndhelt  cntdatgecttsrtics ecr.body oIgt,f                           cldety(tct     Labor force.i.. -c sTin.  o                                 ftrcc rn ebeuscid n
houehid(ovl;191-l.  97. ad_97  dais.                                                      1077 an  (979 dat.,,,.p 
Iet catherl=oof  .c.t.t (arse4  oar) dad           -- Prticteto   achie                     tocctolelt   rret - csi.g  sale.  ondfP                     ss-erl t  fpatio.r
tn _supl  offoI      e   a.ntsp(   ffodI   a odeooa                           s                 c Ioit..rtes Por  reuce  as. dral  sale,1 aN  fSah-   laorfh            ra
Indo. soe oIf    Oerne o  totalti    prcInordped 27bu.o   cslad16. (977, and 197  date. The   r  hsdn                                                   kIV    strpstoaa
p.olsa pyoteto, of ohtch10 goose ohould b  -  ftpaa   p .pitt.bse  agand          rrf -ctoe          L-eaetctr    frh ot .e o  and lon  otared
nrdsraloerfatoooil   entoo                           ocstnl   rc  odastotsr   fras ioololatutc                                              d. ..
enta   rcstaeoorssfoto-rd-tirclydse dhp                       coh'id                    Itccoiic  lesathy . yltio    op..it,dolaubonoa
Arcld Pod  Surey;(96-il h        97  ad 07   eo.c    hettl  ao  its
((SALTS                                                                                     roVoort r,_  T.    TOOC-TntOOIt
sihth h96,17.  nd17   es                                                                 end e-oldb.  19a     0  19i7pr 0a  a1 fibconidesl     ie
Infat Nctaits  ate Ita  thuad      ooa   ecao   t et  odroeya                               eiae    bslt   tao   ooaLtl(7kptcrt)-ubnsdr.e 
percebragll of td t    respctie poulaion   . I  a   ura fraou       cpesnlInono  the  foc._  irhan toalb  droe   fo  terua
fonai   r  roputloaedttsaetht17  eer   ro      oueea   a                                    oa  tliajagstfo  tgrPos   f  ilw    wute  aes
1oe961 s oo  ntt  reeoboacaso   htdue.l   oe   ra                                    fstmtd forulaty. NlnAelt   oot  nce    ee   tret      r
rbstbeccauuufal   htthioenfe0   ehcso   h   ouIooed  ua     ereto   oplto   ura   n   ut)in re'neli
do tot hacs to spnodadleptcportictdt  pot.fteda.c.ec.o.h pv"
famly ea te ted.ir.f-iR                                                                                     P-tg ...I   b                          6      9     
uccaeeoottrsto  Oisueal(oarcvtcfrorulilut-cuca.ucb_I.sInIrdrl-
paroenesges of  bhiroapItIs oplafos   fcrtadipoal.,.Icld
end wast-eater b  steter-oroe ayeeas or tn use ofPlIC ytttee and1                                            ..  I- eptlctoi   nl .. se.'fte t so  Prsjrtto - Ve9atcs
let.. iecsIdtoe                                                                                                                                        Nay1 011"N01d,  .   .
Porulatio ftar Pb-eoito --Poula--ut  ioldad ipstusfet o                                                                                                     -reotto ug phis.
olans qualIfied  foe a end ical echol 01 utlosceidylevel.-liiYI- l.lPtd                                                       _J,n   .I.l.   .
Pnolanoe  atOnrtnaPesue- Ppuetio doldd  y osba  o  prccInn
calesndfemalegrsduotennreae,     "dPIactIc196nur"esbendsesietattouceasp



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
'-25-
Populatton     :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                  Annual growth rate (%)
(million US$ at                             (at constant 1973 prices)
current prtces)                        Actual                                   Projected
Indicator                            1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   181   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.q    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     18,003           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                        29,227           5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        22,794          10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                  15,176          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                   21,365          -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.5    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                   15,494           7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   20.1    7.2   13.4    3.2    0.5
Gross national savings            17,576         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                          Average annual increase (7)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   19RO   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domesttc product        1no    1nO    100    100    io1    1on            3.9           8.4         7.5         7.3         7.5
Agricuilture                54      47      32      26     22      17         2.7           4.1         4.1         3.5         3.5
Industry                    14      18      34      42     44      46         5.2         12.0          9.7         9.0         9.0
Services                    32      35      35      33     36      36         4.8          9.7          9.0         8.5         7.5
Consumption                 91      89      79      70     74      74         4.1          8.4          8.9         8.6         7.6
Gross investment              8     14      20      22     26      27         4.8         18.3         11.7        12.5         7.8
Exports of GNFS             13      13      23      31     23      18         3.6          9.2          8.7         3.7         3.2
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19             3.2         22.1         14.0         8.7         4.9
Gross national savings       8       9      17      25     25      22         6.1         23.1        14.4          4.8         7.3
As 7 of GDP
1960           1970            1975           1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                           11.7            10.1           10.5                23.4
Current expenditures                                                       14.0            8.4             9.3                13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                 -2.3           +1.6            +7.1              +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                         n.a.            5.0           10.7                13.5
Foreign financing                                                           0.2             3.5            3.7                 3.4
196n-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85         1985-90
OTTHER INTDICATORS
Annual GTNP growth rate (X)                              4.5              7.6                 6.9             7.3              7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                    2.4              5.1                 4.5             4.9              5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                2.9             16.0                15.0            11.0             10.0
ICOR                                                     2.2              2.2                 3.1             3.4              3.8
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30             0.48                0.30            0.18             0.26
Import elasticity                                        1.2              2.8                 1.9             1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
Th Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 20, 1982



-26-                                             ANNEX I
Population        147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                            Page 5 of 5 pages
CNP per Capita:  TJS1365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                 Estimate                       Projected
Indicator                   1977     1978      1979      1980      1981       1982     1983      1984      1985     1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,373    24,528   30,108   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil f& LNC (gross)             7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   17,980    18,836   22.869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,393        5,692    7,239    8,964   10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including net YFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,135   -26,095  -31,886  -35,253  -38,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,606  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoll imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                       -536      -586      -659      -975     -968    -1,lo   -1,300   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                       175      -140    3,459    3,596       -762    -1,567   -1,778   -2,010   -,1397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203          -732   -1,247   -1,529   -1,968   -4,430
(a)  Interest public debt            -441      -514      -772      -824   -1,012    -1,226   -,1520   -1,810   -2,119   -3,882
(b)  Other (net)                     -424      -501      -489      -381     -191        494       273       281       151     -548
5.  Capital grants                          66        46        52       76        67        100       100      100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467   -1,898    -2,199   -2,925   -3,439   -3,265   -9,280
7.  Direct foreign investment              285       271      217       140       178        200       350      450       600    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                   1,956    2,205    1,865    2,612    3,976         4,120    4,777    5,548    6,063    9,695
(b)  Amortization   --               -825   -1,548   -1,329        -952   -1,168    -13,08   -1,493   -1,719   -1,983   -3,603
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131      657       536    1,660    2,808       2,812    3,284    3,829    4,080    6,092
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140       891   -1,261   -1,531   -1,418          500       800    1,000       700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736        330    -1,313   -1,509   -1,840   -2,115          188
11.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    7,012         8,325    9,834   11,674   13,789   17,543
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                       3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9      5.6        5.7       5.5       5.5       5.9      4.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the hanking
system /d                                 -         -    6,906   10,787   10,357    11,670   13,179   15,019   17,634   22,388
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4      4.3       8.6      10.1       8.3        8.0      7.4       7.0       7.5       5.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DErT /b
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,612
Concessional Loans                        442       484      433       732
Bilateral                               381      448       399       684
IDA                                     49        29        30        42
Other                                    12         6        5         6
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,880
Official export credits                 218      271       T61       i44
IBRD                                    191      168       199       331
Other multilateral                       16        12       46        52
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,453
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,940
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8, 434      ,442
Private  - source                  4,583    4,717    4,799    5,497
Undisbursed debt                     4,475    5,839    7,932    8,889
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,101    1,777
Interest                             441       514       771       824
Payments as X exports /e               11.6     18,2      12.0       8.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(X)                                    6.3       7.6       6.6       8.1
Official - source                       9.4      4.6       5.0       5.0
Private  - source                       8.6     10.2       8.6      12.8
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                               20.5      18.7      19.1      18.9
Official - source                      23.9      30.1     25.8      24.8
Private  - source                      10.4      8.6      11.1      10.0
As X of debt outstanding at end of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturittes due within 5 years                                                                               30.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                              64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                               4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
Th  Excludes private nongu-ranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7- At end of period.                                                                                    East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil esports treated on gross basis.                                                                         January 20, 1982



-27-                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and thirty Credits fully disbursed           357.0   453.30         -
300     1972   Population                                         13.20        0.45
387     1973   Third Education                                    13.50        3.03
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                  7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                      16.50        8.56
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                         5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                       16.00        3.97
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                    6.50        0.51
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                     30.00        9.16
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project               40.00        9.93
827     1978   Rural Credit                                       30.00       16.67
869     1979   Polytechnic                                        49.00       45.55
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                         10.00        8.96
919     1979   Transmigration II                                  67.00       49.72
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                       12.00       11.29
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                    45.00       42.15
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                               45.00       41.25
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                  42.00       41.48
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                      30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                  14.50                 1.47
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00               14.79
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                5.99
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                5.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00               36.99
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00               10.94
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.00               16.30
1254     1976   Third Fertilizer Extension PURSI IV    70.00                    0.03
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                5.08
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.00                 3.91
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00               10.14
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                    8.17
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                8.83
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00               11.40
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00                1.06



ANNEX II
-28-                       Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1365    1977   Sixth Power                              116.00              37.89
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                     13.00               8.52
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.00              12.57
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.00              41.49
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.00              12.26
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                  1.26
1472    1977   Second Population                         24.50              14.83
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.00               8.12
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.00              37.36
1513    1978   Seventh Power                            109.00              52.35
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.00             123.60
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.00              22.82
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                 62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.00              59.78
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                   54.00              39.45
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control         50.00              44.11
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.00              37.74
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                            130.00             107.48
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.00              26.48
1707    1979   Transmigration II                         90.00              90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                             175.00             139.74
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                       36.00              34.29
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III          99.00             83.96
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00             111.78
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV          42.00              39.37
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                  35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                  35.00              35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                      253.00             240.22
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project             46.00              45.21
1904    1981   University Development Project            45.00              45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                      250.00             250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                 22.00              22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project          43.00              43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V         161.00             161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00                106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1                85.00             85.00
/1  Not yet effective



ANNEX II
-29-                     Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,814.00  931.80
less cancellations                            -23.13   -1.65
Total                                          3,790.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                      -92.24   -2.89
Total now outstanding                          3,698.63  927.26
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Amount repaid by third party          -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3,697.60  927.26
Total undisbursed                             2,457.84  327.09   2,784.93
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
-30-                        Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6      2.5        13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0          -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0      1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -      1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.4          -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                            114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 74.2       3.4       77.6
Total held by IFC                                   40.6      14.3       54.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   53.1           0.9       54.0



ANNEX II
-31-                        Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                              6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                          9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)               13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                     14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                        16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                               18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                    21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                         21
Population and Nutrition
population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                             22
Nutrition (1373)                                                            23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                      24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                             24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     25
Ports (1337)                                                                26
Tourism (479)                                                                 26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                  28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-32-                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



ANNEX II
-33-                        Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983. The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku.Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits. The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing. Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed. Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



ANNEX II
-34-                    Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI's
procurement committee.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production.  Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



ANNEX II
-36-                  Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays- have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI s skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



ANNEX II
-37-                   Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant's engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time ta resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in project implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



ANNEX II
-38-                 Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date:  November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980:  Effective Date:  August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation. It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 28 pages
-39-
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 28 pages
-40-
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project i-s the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed. Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



ANNEX II
-41-                     Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule.  The expeditious
procurement uf project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827  Rural Credit:  $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule.  Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



ANNEX II
-42-                  Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



ANNEX II
-43-                   Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country s
principal civil service training institution. In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982.  Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



ANNEX II
-44-                    Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981.  All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule.  Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



ANNEX II
-45-                 Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding.  Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by March 1982.  Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work.  Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981.  There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement.  This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
-46-
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $1/5 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI's budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 18/2   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule.  Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



ANNEX II
-47-                       Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
-48-
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



ANNEX II
-49-                     Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1995
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan NTo. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustaiaed.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



ANNEX II
-50-                      Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1q82
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



ANNEX II
-51-                     Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date:  October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOI Court of Inquiry.



ANNEX II
-52-                    Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date:  March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project but it is too early to estimate the full
effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies which are
underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to identify
components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
Page 27 of 28 pages
-53-
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. UJpgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about
1.4 million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in
Surabaya have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia. Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



-55-
ANNEX II!
Page 1 of 2 pages
INDONESiA
SIXTEENTH IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  DGWRD with consultant
assistance financed by
GOI and under Loan 1435-IND
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project:                    November 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                             May 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations: February 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:         July 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The GOI would:
(a) provide adequate funds for and take action as necessary to acquire
in the year preceding construction all land and rights in respect
of land required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in all irrigation projects financed by the
Bank (para. 33);
(b) By April 1983, DGH would implement land clearing for about 1,800
ha at the Sitiung II component and promptly after irrigation water
is supplied to each part of the project, the DGFCA would organize,
supervise and provide credit for clearing, levelling and bunding
about 2,500 ha, and levelling and bunding about 3,600 ha of the
irrigation area (para. 38);



-56-
ANNEX III
Paee 2 of 2 'pages
(c) during the design phase for the construction of any tertiary net-
work, ensure that water-user associations participate in the
planning of such networks; and exchange views with water-users
associations to ensure that the members agree with the objec-
tives and operating procedures and thereafter operate and
maintain the networks (para. 41); and
(d) Comprehensively consider the duties and responsibilities of the
Ministry of Agriculture's extension services, DGWRD provincial
irrigation services, the Ministry of Home Affairs and its .local
administration for establishing , training and assisting water-
user associations; and not later than July 1, 1983 furnish to the
Bank for comments, the findings and recommendations thereby
obtained and promptly thereafter cause the agency or agencies
selected on the basis of such review to undertake the training and
support of the water-user associations taking into account the
comments made by the Bank (para. 42).
2.        A Condition of Loan Effectiveness would be that at least one of
the two contracts for construction of the Batang Piruko headrace
canal in the Sitiung II subproject has been tendered, evaluated,
and the notice of award issued by the Project Manager (para. 35),



IBRD  16003 F
101°30                                                                  loo101                                                                  101'50'                                                                 1020101        MARCIH  1982
N D O  N E S I A
IRRIGATION  PROJECT XVI
SITIUNG  11 SUBPROJECT
EXISTING     PRC-PULD
MAIN CANAL
SECONDARY CANAL
H- 47ANG MIMI                     \-                                N
HEAOWORKS                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUMP STATION
--<t@2'   F  -   wtiuZg    IRRIGATION  AREA(STAGE I)
S,                                                                    C                                                                      \ j _ IRRIGATION AREA(STAGE 11)
1000 jR                                        IEADIYORKG P                                                                                       K        B.-gi.                           MILES
H/ ADWORKS                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 00,J
SITIUNG 11 SUBPROJ.ECT
Schematic Flow Dtagram
(C-ns El 118.2m     CNL              Pw
101°00
tZ.S.,, hl, CANA,                                                                                                         1140'                                            S   /to
TIALAND- - 
SOUTH   BRUN,0        Sf/PtPI ES\/
MA   YSiA,,,,,,   -1/1-1 If       PACIFIC OCEAO!
ndOeSA rP  p
rc-S Et 8N&n,'                                                                                                                                                                         I10s
OflthS -r'atdt9d- . t  t to- 1,0mb os-atd The d-   o  ue a  e- d
--     .      AVA .EA       -                                                0|bndnhn   IO,h ma l                                                     d n od ,m, -O th  - p f he W        -do. Bnk and n-
INDIAN  -  an                                                                                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffohate, anYtudg-nn ontele   ttu  fay tom-or o..  a.y -nd--emnto
_______       _                                                                            Ztot_s- i   c,    -d
101 hO,                                                                102,00'






IBRD 16039 R
ST  o~~~~~ ~~~N,              ioo~~~~~~                         1                              11502                          N      00                                1210                              124c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IOIARCA 1RS~~~MARH 98
b     MALAYSIA    50UTH                                CHINA                5A                                          A
Secoog\ Stdyc        A         r          eX <\,  NGAPORE t
K/A  L I M  A N  T A  N
F~~~~~~~~o So V                                               SyCt4 00  A                                                                           I                                                           IistPat4          oroo   20    Acv -X0
0000     c                      00 
ELITUNDONESA oordgo  S  co                                                                                                                                                                -  0  '   - tdy
00,50-h -eOh  i B-                                                                                                                                                                   cc coda/cr5I   = reri 7 4hb= 2  ier0g    2ah;eL
IRRIGATION 120,00                                                                                                                                         7bL                                        u        raoF  -3;VBOs  ; 1> 0 dhbddW^70mprW"*
000      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tl~~~~~h.06
O  0G 2G0o300  ao  Sob-   oc/ 0700 ho  DScbgony       1     71 A   N            :  O         A  N:               :                     :             :A  V   A  $   A
Wco KpM2l           1I25 ho       C j            o   i- R                                                                                                         -              -;
OO                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0 IdO   00  t  l  - fi-t9,      <. ;7
MfF                                                                                                                    :;                                                                                                                                            W  .radfwo.fofAfS$s r    i
IND0ONESIA                                     Orr f3'   -d                                 P 9       po       - -    -                                                                                                 -   -O,p                                                   d
IRRIGATION                 PROJE-CT              XVI                        5ccb~.  S cd                                                                                       h.b.- Se0c n-c                                                                 --Wo  Bor) cOo '.c/ocI c- c 
U.w    -dyA,.                                                                                                                                                                                    d-.,= -Z~~-     0cccooocco  f 0, .00,0
PRaJECT A0EA                                    7,0300c-       icchdySc                                                                             OEc006ScOoOol-- -- - IO,000-IO0.i00/00/O0000
1001 OcTtON STUDY  AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           r,o,coc Odc,00 
IRRIGATMPROJECT 7I   - 00onOOMP ROE  AMAT6ONP/OOJECTI
-     G/ARS                                                                                                                                                        00 cc0         [l,0 -)                                                    -Sh0ncdo Ng0coio
--        RIVERS                                                                                    RIe  00Sbdo                                                                                                                                                                P o  0b/S  ~ I  ,c  -    o- 000,0-ARC(IC OCEAON
-9    -    -    INTeRNATIONAL ROUNDAR/ES                                                                                                                        0c                 ~        00cc-, Schoo                 N~<-/00 
2                                5L~~~~~~~~UOBAWA                                  Slooc                 
O       005y               200             3000 
L                                                                                  I   N     V/ENI  /A  0LIAO A    N/Oc
0  lo(  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~         ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Ar.0 O
/00    7930                                  1000                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1509      I- 12                                        1



