L OAN NUMBER ?,,Ii IND
DOCUMWTS
Loan Agreement
(Sixteenth Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Atwl                   , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "DGWRD" means the Directorate . eneral of Water Resources
Development in the Borrower's Ministry 6f Public Works;
(b) "PROSIDA" means Proyek Irigasi IDA, an executive body
within DGWRD;
(c) "PIBD" means Badan Pelaksana Proyek Induk Irigasi Dengan
Bantuan Bank Dunia, an executive body within DGWRD;
(d) "PROSIJAT" means Proyek Irigasi Jatiluhur;
(e)  "DPP" means the Directorate of Planning and Programming
within DGWRD;
(f)  "DPMA" means the Directorate of Hydraulic Engineering
within DGWRD;
(g) "EJIS" means East Java Provincial Irrigation Service, a
service within the East Java Province Public Works Department;


﻿-2-
(h) "P2AT" means Groundwater Development Agency, a project
unit within DGWRD;
(i) "Proyek Cimanuk" means Badan Pelaksana Proyek
Pengembangam Wilayah Sungai Cimanuk, an executive body within
DGWRD;
(j) "Proyek Hidrologi" means Badan Palaksana Proyek
Hidrologi Dengan Bantuan Bank Dunia, an executive body within
DGWRD;
(k) "P4S" means Proyek Pembukaan Persawahan Pasang Surut,
the project unit for Tidal Swamp Reclamation within DGWRD;
(1) "DGH" means the Directorate General of Highways within
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
(m) "DGFCA" means Directorate General of Food Crops Agricul-
ture within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture; and
(n) "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
beginning April 1 and ending March 31.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty seven million dollars ($37,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Pro-
ject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
- Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, engineering and financial prac-
tices, as follows:
(i) PIBD shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and A.4 of
the Project;
(ii) DGH shall carry out Part A.5 of the Project;
(iii) DGFCA shall carry out Part A.6 of the Project;
(iv) Proyek Cimanuk shall carry out Part B of the
Project;
(v) DGWRD shall carry out Parts C.1 and C.4 of the
Project;
(vi) Proyek Hidrologi shall carry out Part C.2 of the
Project; and


﻿-4-
(vii) PROSIDA shall carry out Part C.3 of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose of the Project.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tions under paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall
ensure that sufficient liquid funds to cover the budgeted expendi-
tures to be required by PIBD, DGH, DGFCA, Proyek Cimanuk, DGWRD,
Proyek Hidrologi and PROSIDA for each fiscal year of the Project,
shall be made available to such agencies not later than May 1 of
each year.
Section 3.02. In order to assist PIBD, Proyek Cimanuk,
DGWRD, Proyek Hidrologi and PROSIDA in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall cause to be employed consultants whose selec-
tion, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as
Executing Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981, as
follows:
(a) by August 1, 1982, or such later date as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, for Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 and A.4 (a) of the
Project;
(b) by January 1, 1983, or such late date as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, for Parts C.1 and C.4 of the Project; and
(c) by April 1, 1983, or such later date as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, for Part C.3 of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause PIBD, Proyek Cimanuk,
DGWRD, Proyek Hidrologi and PROSIDA to maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of *such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, in the year
preceding the construction of the facilities included in all
irrigation projects financed by the Bank, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for such construction


﻿-6-
and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realiztlion or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control ol for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), at security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall makE
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision
thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating
for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdi-
vision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any
institution performing the functions of a central bank or


﻿-7-
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause PIBD, Proyek
Cimanuk, DGWRD, Proyek Hidrologi and PROSIDA to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices their operations and financial
condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separ-
ate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure;
(b) to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure and to enable the Bank's representatives
to examine such records;
(c) to have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(d) to furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but
in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors: (A) on the separate
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and (B) in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis
of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and
(e) to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all canals,
drains, structures, roads, equipment and other facilities
rehabilitated or constructed with the financial assistance of the
Bank to be adequately operated and maintained, in accordance with
appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and public
utility policies and practices, and shall cause such action to be
taken, as shall reasonably be required, to ensure the efficient
use of the water made available by such irrigation systems for
agricultural development and operations.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, at all times,
ensure that adequate staff are employed and funds allocated and
made available, as and when required, for the proper operation and
maintenance of the irrigation, drainage and road systems referred
to under said paragraph (a). To this end, the Borrower shall: (i)
by August 15 in each fiscal year, or such later date as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, make available to the organizations or
departments charged with maintenance of any such system an amount
of liquid funds equal to not less than one half of the amount
budgeted for the operation and maintenance of any such systems in
such fiscal year and shall make the balance available in equal
quarterly installments until all budgeted amounts have been made
available; and (ii) take appropriate steps to progressively in-
crease the number of qualified operation and maintenance staff
employed by the organizations and departments charged with
operation and maintenance of the said systems until adequate staff
levels established by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank
have been attained by such organizations and departments.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank: (i) by May 1 of each year, of the approved
cost per hectare for operation and maintenance budgets for each
such irrigation system; and (ii) by October 1 of each year, of the
staff provisions for each such irrigation system.
Section 4.04. (a) Before the design phase for the construc-
tion of any tertiary network, the Borrower shall ensure that
water-user associations participate in the planning of such
tertiary networks; and (b) during the design phase of any tertiary
networks, the Borrower shall exchange views with said water-user
associations in order to ensure that the members thereof agree to
the objectives and operational procedures of the tertiary networks
and thereafter operate and maintain such works.


﻿-9-
Section 4.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
4.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) comprehensively
consider the duties and responsibilities of the extension services
of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Home Affairs and
its local administration, and DGWRD's Provincial Irrigation
Services and any other agency or agencies concerned or involved,
for establishing, training and assisting water-user associations,
in order to improve the operation and maintenance of tertiary
systems for which water-user asociations are responsible; (b) not
later than July 1, 1983 or such other date as the Bank may other-
wise agree, furnish to the Bank for comments, the findings and
recommendations thereby obtained; and (c) promptly thereafter,
cause the agency or agencies selected on the basis of such review
to undertake the training and support of the water-user associa-
tions taking into account the comments made by the Bank.
Section 4.06. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as otherwise agreed by
the Bank, the Borrower shall, not later than April 1, 1983: (a)
cause DGH to implement the land clearing for about 1,800 ha of
rice land of the 6,700 ha included in Part A of the Project; and
(b) promptly after irrigation water is supplied to each part of
the Sitiung irrigation scheme cause DGFCA to organize, super-
vise and provide credit for rice field formation by levelling
and bunding of about 3,600 ha and by clearing, bunding and
levelling of about 2,500 ha in the area included in Part A of the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that at least one of the contracts for the civil works to
be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project shall have been
tendered, evaluated and the notice of award issued by the Project
manager.
Section 5.02. The date                          , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Represe ntative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT   45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for:
(a) Part A.1, A.2,
A.3 and A.4 of
the Project           13,500,000        30%
(b) Part C.1 of the
Project                  100,000        50%
(c) Part C.2 of the
Project                1,200,000        50%
(d) Part C.3 of the
Project                 900,000         100%
(2) Equipment for:
(a) Part B.1 of                          )   100% of foreign
the Project             350,000     )   expenditures,
(b) Part C.1 of                          )   100% of local
the Project            1,600,000    )   expenditures
(c) Part C.2 of                          )   ex-factory and
the Project            1,300,000    )   65% of other
(d) Part C.3 of                          )   local expendi-
the Project             750,000     )   tures for
)   locally
)   procured
)   items (off-
)   the-shelf)
(3) Training for:
(a) Part C.1 of                          )
the Project             400,000     )   100%
(b) Part C.2 of                          )
the Project             300,000     )


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(c) Part C.3 of                          )   100%
the Project           3,100,000     )
(4) Consultants'                              )
services (including                      )
not more than                             )
5 start-up vehicles                      )
for:
(a) Parts A.1, A.2,                      )
A.3 and A.4 (a)                      )
of the Project          370,000      )
(b) Parts B.1 and                        )
B.2 of the                           )
Project               6,000,000      )
(c) Part C.1 of                          )
the Project           1,200,000     )   100%
(d) Part C.2 of                          )
the Project           1,600,000     )
(e) Part C.3 of                          )
the Project           1,800,000     )
(f) Part C.4 of                          )
the Project             130,000     )
(5) Unallocated                 2,400,000
TOTAL    37,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item In any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Sitiung II
1.   Construction of diversion works on the Batang Siat and the
Batang Piruko.
2.   Construction of a headrace canal of about 17 km from the
diversion works on the Batang Piruko to the Sitiung irrigation
scheme.
3.   Construction of a headrace canal of about 25 km from the
diversion works on the Batang Piruko to the Sitiung irrigation
scheme.
4.   Construction of: (a) the main system; and (b) the tertiary
system to serve an area of about 6,700 ha within the Sitiung
irrigation scheme.
5.   Land clearing of about 420 ha served by the Batang Piruko and
about 1,400 ha served by the Batang Siat within the said scheme.
6.   Rice field formation of about 3,600 ha and land clearing and
rice field formation of about 2,500 ha within the said scheme.
Part B:   Designs and Feasibility Studies
1.   River basin study for irrigation, drainage and flood mitiga-
tion in the Cisanggarung Basin.
2.   Detailed designs of the Jatigede Dam and ancillary works on
the Cimanuk River.
Part C:   Institutional Support to DGWRD and DPMA
1.   Strengthening of DGWRD's management information system
and introduction of computer based systems.
2.    Extension of the hydrologic data network and data processing
capabilities of DPMA.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Expanding and broadening training programs for local govern-
ment officials responsible for assisting water-uL;er associations
and for members of such water-user associations.
4.   Upgrading financial control and auditing procedures of
PROSIDA, PIBD, PROSIJAT, DPP, P2AT, EJIS, Proyek Cimanuk, Proyek
Hidrologi and P4S.
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1987
through   December 1, 2001                 1,235,000
On June 1, 2002                                 1,185,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.50%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                           6.40%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                            9.30%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                          10.45%
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                             11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Hydrologic, climatologic, communication equipment and mobile
training units shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, excluding the goods referred


﻿- 20 -
to under Part C of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Indonesia
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowesc evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if


﻿- 21 -
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment (other than hydrologic, climatologic,
communications equipment and mobile training units) may be awarded
in accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures in effect
as of the date of this Agreement.
2.   Vehicles required for Project start-up activities may be
procured without resort to international competitive bidding,
provided that: (a) such vehicles are procured in accordance with
the Borrower's procurement procedures as of the date of this
Agreement; and (b) the number of vehicles so procured does not
exceed 5.
3.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's procurement procedures in effect as of the date of
this Agreement. All such contracts which extend for a period of
more than one year shall include appropriate price escalation
clauses.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods to be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Part A (1) of this Schedule and
with respect to all contracts for civil works each representing
$1,500,000 equivalent or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 22 -
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  Ai.dLday of4       . , 198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


