Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24270
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25720)
ONA
CRED[T
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDIA
FOR A
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
JUNE 06. 2002
Rural Development Sector Unit
India Country Unit
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
US$ 1.00 = Rs. 30.0 (at appraisal)
US$1.00 = Rs 31.4 FY94/95 US$1.00 = Rs 33.4 FY95/96
US$1.00 = Rs 35.5 FY96/97   US$1.00 = Rs 37.1 FY97/98
US$1.00 = Rs 42.1 FY98/99   US$1.00 = Rs 43.3 FY99/00
US$1.00 = Rs 45.7 FYOO/01   US$1.00 = Rs 47.4 FY01/02
US$ 1.00 = Rs 48.18 (at completion)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADG        Additional Director General                 MPFDC      Madhya Pradesh Forest Development
Corporation
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy                 MTR        Mid Term Review
CSO        Clonal Seed Orchard                         NFLIC      National Forestry Library and Information
Centre
DDG        Deputy Director General                     NFRP       National Forestry Research Plan
ESF        Extension Support Fund                      NGI        Non Government Individual
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization           NGO        Non Government Organization
FREEP      Forestry Research Education and Extension Project  NWFP  Non Wood Forest Product
FRI        Forestry Research Institute                 PA         Protected Area
GHNP       Great Himalayan National Park               PRA        Participatory Rural Assessment
GOHP       Government of Himachal Pradesh              PSIP       Planting Stock Improvement Program
GOI        Government of India                         QAG        Quality Assurance Group
GOTN       Government of Tamil Nadu                    RGF        Research Grant Fund
ICB        International Competitive Bidding           SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
ICFRE      Indian Council of Forest Research and Education  SFD   State Forest Department
ICR        Implementation Completion Report            SHG        Self Help Group
IDA        International Development Association       SPA        Seed Production Area
IFRIS      Indian Forestry Research Information System  SSO       Seedling Seed Orchard
IT         Information Technology                      VDC        Village Development Corporation
JRF        Junior Research Fellow                      VFC        Village Forest Committee
KMTR       Kalakkad-Mundantharai Tiger Reserve         VMG        Vegetative Multiplication Garden
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding                   WAN        Wide Area Network
MOEF       Ministry of Environment and Forests         WII        Wildlife Institute of India
MP        Madhya Pradesh
Vice President:    Meiko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Adolfo Brizzi/Constance A. Bernard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Jessica Mott



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    10
6. Sustainability                                                                        11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       14
9. Partner Comments                                                                      15
10. Additional Informnation                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    33
Annex 8. Summary of Govermment Implementation Completion Report                          34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their ofricial duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
withoul World Bank authorization.



[roject ID: P010448                                       Project Name: FORESTRY RESEARCH ED
Team Leader: Jessica Mott                                 TL Unit: SASRD
I(R Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 6, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                           LIC/TFNumber: 25720
Country/Department: INDIA                                                Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AT - Forestry; VM - Natural Resources Management
K] Y DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/03/92                               Effective: 04/03/92           09/30/94
Appraisal:  05/01/93                                  MTR: 05/28/97             05/28/94
Approval:  02/24/94                                Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOI/Indian Council on Forestry Research and Education
Other Partners: Ministry of Environment & Forests, Tamil Nadu Forest Department and Himachal
Pradesh Forest Department
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Meiko Nishimizu                           Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin R. Lim                              Heinz Vergin
Sector Manager:      Gajanand Pathmanathan                     Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:  Jessica Mott                              Ian Hill
ICR Primary Author:  Frank McKinnell
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HlS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU--Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Inistitutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
problem project from June 1997 - April 1998



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The primary purpose of the project was to improve the capacity and quality of forestry research in India over the
period 1994-1999 by providing a credit of U$47.0 million. The project also included two further components
dealing with conservation of biodiversity and strengthening Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) capacity
for forest policy analysis and development. Two one-year extensions were agreed in order to achieve the principal
objectives and the project closed on 31 December 2001.
The specific objectives were:
*   Research. Strengthen the capacity of national and state institutions to plan and undertake priority forestry
research programs and to support a number 6f research projects at several regional research institutes, as
well as a comprehensive planting stock improvement program.
* Education. Improve the system of forestry education in research and academic institutions.
* Extension. Improve the extension of research findings to users of the information.
*   Conservation of Biodiversity. Develop and test, on a pilot basis, methods for conservation of biological
resources in protected areas (PAs) through an ecodevelopment approach.
*   Forest Policy Development. Improve policy analysis and project preparation capabilities within MOEF and
develop a supporting forestry statistical service.
The project objectives were consistent with the 1992 and 1994 Country Assistance Strategies (CASs) for Bank
assistance to India, which supported programs to generate and disseminate technologies which accelerate growth
and redress poverty in rural rain-fed areas, to strengthen public sector management efficiency through institutional
strengthening, and to improve natural resource management including biodiversity conservation through improved
incentives and participation. It was also consistent with the 1993 Operational Policy 4.36 and Good Practice 4.36,
and with the objectives of the 1991 Bank Policy Paper on Forestry and with the Asia Region's strategy for forest
lending, which specified strengthening the capacity of centre and state academic and technical institutions to
provide research, education, and training for state initiatives and priorities. Given that the project addressed the
productivity and health of forests, on which many of India's rural poor depend and that the ecodevelopment
component directly targeted the poor forest dependent people, it also remained consistent with subsequent CASs.
For example the 2001 CAS emphasizes pro-poor natural resource management interventions which would also
achieve environmental goals of land reclamation, forest regeneration, and biodiversity protection. The project also
was highly relevant to the 1988 Government of India National Forest Policy.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions of project objectives
3.3 Original Components:
Research Management. Support the development of the Indian Council on Forestry Research and Education
(ICFRE) by: expansion of the ICFRE corporate structure, the development of a National Forestry Research Plan
(NFRP), and a Forestry kesearch Information System to enable the monitoring and evaluation of research projects
and the introduction of program budgeting, a new headquarters building, together with equipment and vehicles,
and training, both within India and overseas, for ICFRE staff.
Extension. Promote the extension of research results to users by: linkages, technical support, demonstrations
through an Extension Support Fund, public awareness campaigns and school and college curricula development,
and new units with staffing.
Researeb Program Support. Support and expand research programs across all ICFRE institutes through: (a)
research programs at ICFRE Institutes; (b) a planting stock improvement program with seed production areas,
clonal seed orchards, seedling seed orchards, seed harvest, handling, testing and storage services, development of
nurseries and multiplication gardens; (c) research system support through a Research Grant Fund (RGF) for small
- 2 -



forest research programs in state forest departments (SFDs), Universities, or private sector; (d) human resource
development through an HRD Plan, and training awards and research fellowships (JRF scheme); (e) improve the
qu ality ofscientif c work by funding specialised consultants to improve skills in ICFRE institutes and reviews of
each institute by international specialists; (f) development of a National Forestry Library and Information Centre
through a new library building, an information network, books and joumnals, library catalogue computerisation,
tmaining, an inter-library loans system, and a survey of the grey literature.
Forestry Education. Raise the standard of forestry education by: (a) strengthening ICFRE capacity to develop
forestry curricula by creating key positions within ICFRE and supporting consultant reviews of curriculum
development; (b) supporting postgraduate research in forestry at the Forest Research Institute Deemed University
by student grants and constructing residential accommodation for students; (c) improving teaching capacity and
quality at the Deemed University with equipment and staffing for four M.Sc. courses.
Forest Policy and Preparation. Improve MOEF capacity for forest policy analysis and development by: (a)
stVengthening the policy division of the Forestry Wing of MOEF by local consultancies, short courses and
workshops for MOEF and States, upgrading computing facilities and preparation by consultants of future forestry
projects for funding by GOI or donors; (b) enabling the collection of national level data to support policy analysis
by development of a Forestry Statistics Unit within ICFRE.
Conservation of Biodiversity. Two sites were selected, the Kalakad Mundantharai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) in
T mil Nadu and Great Himalayan National Park (GHNP) in Himachal Pradesh, for a program to test innovative
approaches to biodiversity conservation and protected area management by: (a) an ecodevelopment system that
supported microplanning by local communities and established a support fund to finance ecodevelopment
activities; (b) improve protected area management by further development of management plans, protected area
mrianagement improvements, infrastructure (such as visitor centres, research sub-stations, fire lookout towers and
staff housing), public awareness, staff training and specialist advice; (c) expand research, monitoring and
evaluation by research studies, ecological and socio-economic baseline studies, and a strategic national study to
describe and classify protected areas (PAs) throughout India and their management and ecodevelopment needs.
3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of the components during the project, although at mid-term some targets, especially for the
Planting Stock Improvement Program (PSIP), were revised downward in the light of experience and some research
activities at ICFRE institutes were curtailed for operational reasons. Mid-term decisions also included the addition
of a few works (e.g., ICFRE hostel in Delhi), and some equipment and furmishings were added in the final years in
n.sponse to the National Forestry Research Plan and other project developments. At mid-term the Bank also
a:greed that the KMTR component could include a small amount of support for another Tamil Nadu PA, the
Megamalai Sanctuary, that would complement ongoing ecodevelopment in the adjoining Periyar Tiger Reserve in
Kerala. It was also agreed that KMTR's highly successful awareness programs would be expanded.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory, but with significant shortcomings. The institutional focus, comprehensive range of issues, and
nation-wide geographic coverage of the ICFRE components were appropriate but inherently challenging. The
project contained many important approaches that were new to much of ICFRE, such as the PSIP, the innovative
JRF and Research Grant programs, development of a National Forestry Research Plan, training to improve the
quality of research, provision of equipment, and a large investment in computing facilities.
TIhe addition of two components unrelated to the research thrust of the project added complexity, and Bank
management recognized from the onset that supervision costs therefore would need to be higher than average. The
small forest policy component addressed serious deficiencies in MOEF capability. The biodiversity/ecodevelopment
and PA management projects at KMTR and GHNP contained new and untried approaches to reducing social
pressures on PAs. This biodiversity component was added at a late stage in response to country dialogue on
processing issues involving the timetable of a separate operation which would be funded by a Global
Environmental Facility grant.
-3-



While the components were generally well designed and the borrower had working papers, it did not have its own
detailed Project Implementation Plan as would be required by current quality at entry standards. The lack of a fully
satisfactory procurement plan, initial tender documents, and detailed arrangements for financial management
contributed to start-up delays and on this aspects the project did not meet good practice (but rarely enforced)
guidelines of the time. In retrospect, it is now evident that the appraisal did overestimate the capacity of MOEF to
coordinate the project and to implement its own policy component. In addition, administrative weaknesses within
ICFRE, and the difficulty of complying with Bank procedures were not fully appreciated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project has achieved most of its objectives in respect of improvement in forest research capacity,
although individual components were often delayed and some targets had to be reduced at MTR. Until MTR
progress with FREEP was very slow and it was rated a problem project for ten months beginning in June 1997.
However, ICFRE made a determined, and successful, effort to retrieve the situation after MTR and problem status
was removed in April 1998. The ecodevelopment work.at KMTR was successful. However at GHNP, success, if
any, was visible only in the period after Credit closure. The forest policy and planning component produced some
good consultants' reports, but did not materially improve MOEF policy analysis and development capacity.
*   To strengthen the capacity of national and state institutions to plan and undertake priority forestry
research programs.
The project has improved the capacity of the national organisation ICFRE to plan, prioritise and carry out
forest research. A National Forest Research Plan has been developed after extensive -consultation with
stakeholders to identify priorities and Research Advisory Groups have been set up for each research
Institute to provide ongoing input on the selection of research projects to ensure their relevance to user
needs. There was no activity directed at State institutions in this area, but much closer links were
developed with State forestry agencies and with universities. New interactions with the private sector were
initiated but remained very limited in scope.
The local and international training, the review of research programs by international experts, and the
development of a Chief Technical Adviser system, have improved research capacity in ICFRE Institutes.
Research staff are now computer literate, more systematic and better integrated in their activities.
Experiments are better designed and analysed and the quality of research has markedly improved. Useful
linkages have been formed with external research bodies both within India and intemationally. There has
been a noticeable increase in staff confidence, which is reflected in far greater willingness to solicit
external funds for research.
*   Improve the system of forestry education in research and academic institutions.
The Deemed University at FRI has improved facilities and student accommodation, and now offers four
more courses that are more attuned to user needs. A new postgraduate forestry education curriculum has
been developed and is in the process of adoption by the 25 Universities offering forestry courses. A set of
curricula for use in the primary and secondary school system to improve awareness of forestry in India has
been developed and has been referred to the Ministry of HRD.
*   Improve the extension of research findings.
The extension units were established, staffed and equipped. Training in extension techniques was
undertaken and the Extension Support Fund was established with grants made to a number of external
bodies - SFDs, Non Government Organizations (NGOs) and Universities. All units developed extension
plans to guide future work in this-field. Extension to the private sector has been limited and still requires
strengthening, but this is challenging in the context of ICFRE's past weakness and isolation. The
improvement in the quality of ICFRE research resulting from the Forestry Reseach Education and
Extension Project (FREEP), if combined with a concerted effort in the future to identify and address
private sector interests and make use of private sector extension mechanisms, should increase ICFRE's
credibility and effectiveness over the long-term.
- 4 -



*   Develop and test on a pilot basis methods for conservation of biological resources in protected areas
through ecodevelopment
At KMTR this objective was achieved successfully. Some 14,480 families have benefited from altemative
livelihoods, relief from indebtedness to rural moneylenders, successful operation of community
development funds, reduced dependence on fuelwood, and improved biomass production. A feature of the
project at KMTR has been the active involvement of women in village forest committees and in self help
groups. The project has helped build social capital and enabled forest dependent landless poor establish
viable livelihoods that do not adversely affect the PA. In the GHNP, achievement of project objectives
during the project period was unsatisfactory when provision of Bank financing ceased due to difficulties
over legal rulings that compromised the ecodevelopment program. However, during the post
Bank-financing period, some promising innovations have been established at GHNP.
*   Improve policy analysis and project preparation capabilities within MOEF and develop a
supporting forestry statistical service.
This component did not achieve its objective of improving MOEF forest policy and planning capability.
Consultancies on three policy studies (Joint Forest Management, Forest Industries, and Contribution of
Forestry Sector to Gross National Product) and a Forestry Sector Project Proposal were carried out, and
several study tours were completed. Short courses and workshops for senior staff in MOEF and States took
place during the project period, but were mostly financed by other sources. A National Forestry Action
Plan was finalized in 1999, but this cannot be attributed to International Development Association (IDA)
financing. Overall, the project impact on capacity was negligible with no institutional reform. This was
particularly unfortunate because the period 1994-2001 coincided with a burst of international activity on
forest policy, in which India played a minor role. The Forestry Statistics Unit was established and has
successfully met its objectives under FREEP.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Research Manacement
*   Development of ICFRE. The project funded the appointment of additional Deputy Director Generals
(DDGs) and Additional Director Generals (ADGs) and a new headquarters building for ICFRE staff was
completed and equipped at Dehra Dun. The Indian Forestry Research Information System (IFRIS) was an
ambitious concept that was only partly achieved at the conclusion of the project. There were many delays
caused by ICFRE's lack of experience in managing information technology (IT) projects, poor
performance by some IT contractors and staff changes within ICFRE. The Financial Accounting System
module is now operational at most (but not all) institutes, but it is evident that further development is
required. It is unfortunate that the full benefit of FAS cannot be achieved due to current GOI accounting
policies. Other modules of IFRIS are still under development but have been partially implemented. The
local training was generally well carried out and has resulted in a significant improvement in computer
literacy and capacity to undertake research and statistical analysis among research staff. The overseas
training implemented through a contract with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) was less
successful. While some was well planned and was of great benefit, some was inappropriate for the
individual concemed. There were also a number of instances of deputed officers receiving overseas
training and then departing back to their state cadres so that ICFRE failed to receive the benefit of the
training. Delays in the Human Resource Development Plan meant that it did not affect the composition of
project-financed training.
*   Extension of research information to users. The project funded the creation of extension cells at three
regional institutes and at headquarters: Jodhpur, Shimla and Bangalore, and at ICFRE in Dehra Dun.
The regional Institute cells received extension training and additional audio-visual equipment, and, in
some cases, some civil works. They were very active in promoting the results of past and current research
to users ranging from east coastal fishermen (pressure-treated catamarans) to State forestry agencies (PSIP
management). They also produced leaflets in several languages, conducted workshops, field days and
training in fields such as nursery management. Each regional cell also drafted a local extension strategy to
- 5 -



guide future activities. The central ICFRE cell produced a large number of videos, films, leaflets and
monographs in several languages. It also developed a national forestry extension strategy. An Extension
Support Fund was established to provide funds for extension projects managed by State forestry agencies,
industry and NGOs. This was very successful, with most projects being completed in a satisfactory
manner.
Research Program SuDDOrt
*   Research Programs. In financial terms one of the largest components of FREEP was support for Institute
research programs. Several programs were chosen at each Institute and received funds for operating
expenses, purchase of lab equipment, software and computers, construction of facilities such as mist
chambers, model nurseries and for training related to the program. Funds were also provided for
infrastructure development at Shimla, Jabalpur, Bangalore, New Delhi, Jodhpur, Jorhat, Hyderabad,
Chhindwara and Ranchi. Major new facilities were developed at Shimla and Jorhat, so that both are now
fully fledged institutes.
*   Planting Stock Improvement. The planting stock improvement program exceeded the MTR targets for
establishment of seed production areas, (SPAs) - 1226 ha, , seedling seed orchards (SSOs) - 344 ha,
clonal seed orchards (CSOs) (166 ha) and vegetative multiplication gardens (VMGs) (56.6 ha). The SPAs,
SSOs and CSOs and some VMGs have been handed back to State agencies for management, together with
the necessary training and management plans. Many SPAs are already yielding seed of improved quality
that is being used in State afforestation programs. Some States are using the techniques developed during
FREEP to establish additional SPAs. There is strong interest in some States from farmers in gaining
access to clonal material for farm forestry. Model nurseries were established at all 8 Institutes and seed
handling equipment, testing and storage facilities were installed at Jodhpur, Ranchi, Bangalore and
Jabalpur.
*   Research System Support. Research System Support comprised the Research Grant Fund, a program of
research fellows, a program of reviews and training to upgrade the quality of scientific work, and other
support. Research Grant funds were allocated to a total of 225 recipients spread across many SFDs and
Universities. 200 projects were actually taken up and completed. This was a very useful program that
improved University and SFD research capacity through provision of equipment. It also supported a
number of postgraduate students to eam higher degrees. For ICFRE, the RGF scheme gave valuable
experience in the selection and management of contract research. Consultants Winrock Intemational
provided a number of local and intemational specialists to carry out skill improvement courses in all
Institutes and also carried out useful reviews of all eight Institutes using intemational specialists.
However, Winrock did never developed sustainable twinning arrangements linking ICFRE with foreign
research institutes or universities. Furthermore, a contractual dispute with Winrock caused the cessation
of the activities in 1999. In the final two years, ICFRE on its own initiated twinning arrangements
focussed on specific research topics. ICFRE also arranged a large number of local training courses that
have had a significant impact on the quality of scientific work. These courses included experimental
design and analysis, use of software systems and research writing. A system of review by 21 in-house
Chief Technical Advisors and by the eight Regional Advisory Groups (involving outsiders) as well as
other reviews has also increased quality control.
*   Human Resource Development. It was intended that a HRD plan be developed early in the project but it
was delayed until the extension period. During extensive consultation with staff and stakeholders much
controversy was generated and at the end of the project it still had not been finalised. However, the
groundwork has been done for a major HR initiative in this area. One of the most successful initiatives
under FREEP was the research fellow scheme under which 106 people were appointed for 3-year terms as
junior research fellow, senior research fellow or research assistant, depending on their qualifications.
These fellows carried out a huge amount of work for ICFRE research programs, and many were able to
utilise their work to eam higher degrees. A total of 24 Ph.D. degrees was awarded to research fellows
under FREEP.
-6 -



*   Development of a National Forestry Library and Information Centre (NFLIC). A new library
building was constructed and equipped. Additional books and joumals, especially foreign joumals, were
purchased. NFLIC now makes contents pages of journals available to regional centres, with photocopies of
articles sent to individual staff on request. In addition, copies of the CAB TreeCD reference system were
supplied to each Institute, with annual updates, enabling local searching of past scientific literature
relevant to forestry and greatly speeding up the literature search process. A large quantity of older joumals
and books were bound, or rebound, as necessary, so that the central library stock is now in much better
condition. An interlibrary loan system is now in operation. Most Institutes are now on the Wide Area
Network (WAN), which greatly facilitates access to library services. Staff at Institutes have received
training in information sciences. A professional has been appointed as chief librarian. A survey was
carried out, although not completed, of the "grey literature" held in SFD files that is relevant to forestry
research. Difficulties were encountered with locating suitable local consultants for this task in some states,
but a good start has been made. A consultant has developed a search system for this grey literature
database. Cataloguing the library holdings was an important undertaking but at the end of FREEP only
32,000 of approximately 126,000 books had been reclassified and indexed. This poor performance was
due to the slow start of the project, lack of professional staff appointment and misunderstandings over
employment of contractors to carry out the task.
*   Development of a Forestry Statistics Unit within ICFRE. The Project funded the development of a
Statistical Unit in ICFRE to coordinate the compilation and analysis of national forestry statistics. The
unit has caught up with the backlog of reporting since 1988 and has published national data up to 1999.
The reports are also available on the ICFRE website.
*   Forestry Education. The Deemed University now offers three M.Sc. Degrees and three postgraduate
Diploma courses and the number of students has gone up 5 times since the inception of FREEP.
Residential units have been constructed and grants made available to students at the University.
Additional seminar room fumiture, laboratory equipment and computers have been purchased and
students have access to the new NFLIC facilities. Course content has been enriched by the use of FREEP
funds to attract outside experts to deliver short courses or lectures. The review of postgraduate forestry
curricula at all Indian Universities offering forestry courses was carried out and a new core curriculum
agreed upon with the Universities concerned. The new curriculum is now being adopted.
*   Forest Policy and Preparation. The Policy Division engaged consultants to prepare a national review of
Indian experience of the last 10 years of joint forest management, a study on forest industry in India and a
study on the contribution of forestry to GDP. All three of these studies are affecting evolving
national-level government policies. Funds were also provided for a Forestry Sector Project Proposal,
which was completed by consultants in December 2001. This study makes recommendations for major
changes in MOEF handling of forestry matters, but the changing context for institutional reform at central
government levels means its impact is likely to be limited. The study tours involved officers who have
rotated back to their state govenmments, and hence left little lasting impact within MOEF.
Conservation of Biodiversity.
*   Ecodevelopment. At KMTR, 132 Village Forest Committees (VFCs) have been organized in the
peripheral villages with a membership of 17,465 families. Over two thirds of these are entirely dependent
on the PA for their livelihood. The VFC membership constitutes 75% of the resident families in the area
with a membership of 33, 515 persons. Non govemment organizations (NGOs) and individuals (NGIs)
assisted in forming these institutions. Training activities and study tours for capacity building have been
undertaken.
VFC member families have used the ecodevelopment support fund for alternate livelihoods (14,480
families), biomass production (10,749 families) and energy saving devices (9,192 families). Most of the
funds for altemative livelihoods were provided in the form of community-managed micro-credit to
- 7 -



individual households. An initial investment (Rs. 31.8 million or US$777,000) more than doubled itself
(to Rs. 69.1 million or US$1666,000) within a short span. More importantly, the resource has been rotated
close to 4 times in most VFCs and the money lent and recovered for productive investments is estimated at
more than Rs. 130 million or US$3.13 million). Excellent recovery (80-100% on time) of loans is reported
by 63% of VFCs. About 25% of groups show moderate to good recovery (60-80% recovery on time) and
about 12% of groups show less than satisfactory recovery (<60% on time).
Women constitute the overall majority (55%) membership of the VFCs. They also form the majority of
elected members in executive committees (61%) and head 13% of the VFCs. Self help groups (SHGs) of
women have grown to 383 within a short span of 2 years with a membership of 6001 persons. SHGs are
maintaining their accounts satisfactorily and are widening their resource base by on-lending activities.
These groups have developed considerable confidence in their own abilities and are now proactively
seeking additional resources to improve their livelihood opportunities.
At GHNP, the processes in formation of local level institutions and micro planning left much to be
desired. There has been little or no impact on the ground from ecodevelopment investments. The 16
village committees formed during project period are defunct. However, in the post Credit closure period,
womens' savings and credit groups have been established covering poor families and a Biodiversity
Conservation Society is in Place.
* PA Management. KMTR produced a new PA management plan early in the project period which guided
most PA management activities during the project period, and the Wildlife Institute of India (Wll) has
assisted in a recent revision, incorporating tourism and enclave management strategies, which is yet to be
finalized and approved. Substantial progress has been made in equipping the park staff with equipment,
vehicles and accommodation in accordance with project provisions. The visitor centre construction has not
been taken up.
Awareness programs have been conducted at the villages using local artists to adapt folk dance and music
to conservation themes in programs which have won national level awards. Several innovative community
mobilization activities have been taken up for school children and local communities. Training
programmes have been conducted for local communities on variety of topics ranging from conservation
awareness to participatory rural assessment (PRA) to VFC management. Training programmes have been
conducted for staff on topics relating to PA management. In addition exposure/study tours have been
conducted for staff and VFCs to other locations within and outside the State, and a few foreign training
opportunities for senior officials.
At GHNP, the revision of PA management plan is in progress and is expected to be completed by end
March 2002. Awareness creation during the project has been minimal. In the post Credit closure period,
the awareness creation activities have been taken up on a modest scale through cultural programmes and
publicity materials have been produced in association with Friends of GHNP, an informal organisation
which is supporting the park authorities.
l  Research, Monitoring and Evaluation. A national level consultant study to describe and classify PAs in
India and assess their management and ecodevelopment needs has been satisfactorily completed. It is very
comprehensive, and if made easily accessible on a web site, should become a well used reference by a wide
range of users. W1l undertook major baseline studies in both GHNP and KMTR. At GHNP, baseline
biodiversity studies have been carried out and long-term monitoring sites established. All studies at GHNP
have been brought out in the form of a CD for wider dissemination. The park has also brought out an
innovative CD containing sounds of bird calls. In contrast, as of project closing, KMTR still did not have
access to the final reports and data of the Wll studies which had been completed two years earlier. During
the final two years, several additional research studies on KMTR were commissioned and completed by
local consultants. Notable among these are an excellent study on enclaves, and impact monitoring studies
(social and environmental). Several of the additional KMTR studies were undertaken in the last year of
-8 -



the project, which limited their utility during the project period.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
FoDrestry Research, Education and Extension. It is more appropriate to analyse cost-effectiveness rather than
cost/benefits, given the project's core objective of increasing ICFRE capacity. Overall, the investmnent has been cost
elfective in that it has draimatically improved ICFRE's capacity for research, and to a lesser extent, extension and
education through improved facilities, equipment and staff training. It is now producing work of higher quality
from staff who are much more confident and outward-looking. In a marked change of approach it now has a
Project Formulation Division that is actively pursuing external funding for forest research, and several regional
Irnstitutes have similarly sought, and gained extemal funding. Some individual activities were not cost-effective.
Some of the investment in international training was not well designed and some who received international
training returned to their cadres after a short time, so that ICFRE did not receive the expected benefits. Not all of
the buildings have been well-utilized upon completion.
Ecodevelopment. At KMTR, the ecodevelopment strategy adopted by the project has proved to be cost effective.
As mentioned above the value of support funds in VFC accounts has grown significantly. The value of livelihood
assets created with these funds and the value of standing plantations created under the biomass creation program is
al so significant, although their net benefit has riot been quantified. The approach can be considered cost effective
and sustainable. At GHNP, women's saving and credit groups have been successful. However, because
project-financed GHNP investments tended to be routine forestry works without imagination, without community
involvement and without clearly targeted lirikages to conservation, those ecodevelopment investments have not
proved cost effective.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. FREEP has been successful in transforming ICFRE into a dynamic and progressive organisation.
The capacity for and quality of research in ICFRE has improved significantly. Research staff are better trained,
better equipped and more effective. There have been major advances in computer literacy and support services.
They have become used to time-bound projects and have begun to actively seek external funding. The
prioritisation process has increased the focus of ICFRE research on the interests of poor forest dependent people
and joint forest management, but there continues to be room for improvement in private sector orientation and
linkages regarding ICFRE's research related to productivity.
T'he three MOEF policy studies are affecting policy reform, although the impact of the project on overall policy and
planning capacity within MOEF has been minimal.
Ait the national level, the KMTR project, through its demonstration of the benefits of community participation and
ecodevelopment strategy, has made a major contribution to the biodiversity conservation agenda by setting the
precedent for its wider application. The experience gained has already contributed to formulation of the India
E.codevelopment Project, now being implemented in 7 national parks in other States, as well as the spread of this
approach to other state forestry projects. Within Tamil Nadu, the Govemment has agreed in principle to apply the
concept to other PAs in the State, although the pace of progress on this aspect has been disappointing.
At the micro level the KMTR project has helped form and build capacity of 132 VFCs and 383 self help groups of
women. At least 2/3rds of the VFCs are assessed to be inclusive, democratic, transparent and sustainable. Women
are now actively exploring ways and means to improve the economic and social standard of living. They have now
much better say in society at large and in the VFC functioning in particular. With ongoing support, these local
level institutions could easily become sustainable.
13y operationalsing the concept of Biodiversity Conservation Society (BioDCs), GHNP has provided a useful model
f'or other parks in the country. The society has become a useful vehicle for accessing resources and knowledge and
-9-



in transforming bureaucratic style of park management into one that is more flexible and responsive to park needs.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S.) Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The state governments took time to work out modalities to address the decision by the Supreme Court of India in
1996 on felling of trees in forests, which caused significant delays in the ICFRE Planting Stock Improvement. The
fact that very few forests had management plans that specifically allowed for felling trees for research purposes
meant that the thinning of forest to create seed production areas was completely stopped for some time, as was the
clearing of sites for seed orchard establishment. In GHNP state and national government response to a Supreme
Court decision setting a deadline on the final notification of PAs (including the settlement of rights of local
people), disrupted further implementation and Bank financing after 1999. The settlement associated with final
notification created a great deal of dissatisfaction among stakeholders and adversely affected whatever little
credibility the park had with local communities
Implementation also suffered from the fact that the original budget sanction did not take into account contingencies
for inflation and physical adjustments, and did not readily allow for reallocation across budget categories.
Furthermore, the initial sanction inadvertently left out the MOEF and PTO components entirely. Revisions of the
budget sanctions took months and sometimes years to process.
Partly as a result of budget sanction rigidities, failure of MOEF to ensure steady flow of funds to ICFRE caused
implementation to suffer. There was a lack of delegated authority, govemment accounts were organized only by
type of expenditure and not by activity, and staff were not familiar with Bank procedures. The failure of the
Winrock contract resulting from actions by the tax authorities interrupted technical assistance. The contractual
dispute with Winrock appeared late in 1998, but was not resolved by the time FREEP closed, although it is
understood a resolution is imminent. This matter should have been rectified much earlier. Opportunities for
intemational cooperation and interchange were missed because the Govemment of India did not process the
proposals in a timely fashion.
At Tamil Nadu, there were also.delays in release of funds and sanctions from the state govemment for a number of
activities, which adversely affected implementation. The full complement of staff for KMTR were not retained in
place at the end of the project, which may endanger further strengthening of the weaker VFCs. Failure of the state
Government to expedite the recognition of the Kani people as a scheduled tribe was another adverse factor that
affected outcomes.
In Himachal Pradesh, the delays in sanctions, funds flow and making appropriate institutional arrangements
(including delegation of powers and posting of officers with sufficient seniority to head the Park) adversely affected
project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The research components of the project suffered from transient staffing of senior positions in ICFRE and at some
regional institutes. The most serious problem was the tumover in the Director General position. By the time of the
MTR there had been no less than three DGs. The third DG retired in 1999 and was not replaced for 18 months.
Even though a part time acting DG was appointed, the lack of leadership caused problems at a time when a large
number of activities needed support. There were also four National Project Directors over the period of the project.
Overall, implementation at KMTR was very good in spite of constraints at the state government level. There was
room for improvement in research studies, social inclusion, and the NGO exit strategy. Many studies were
awarded during the last seven months of the project. Though these studies were completed in time, the real benefit
of these inputs could not be reaped within the project period. While part of the reasons for the delays is attributable
to delay in obtaining GOTN sanctions, much of it is attributable to inadequate planning and prioritisation by the
- 10 -



implementing agency. The KMTR component did prioritise and focus on forest dependent poor. However, in
retrospect, the process of formation of general body and executive committees did not pay adequate attention to
interest groups in the village. Impact assessment study indicates that about a third of the VFCs are not fully
inclusive and transparent. While the project did prescribe a minimum membership of women in VFC executive
co'mmittees, the effectiveness of role of women in the project improved only in the last two years of the project
when SHGs were promoted and linked to VFCs. Capacity building of VFCs for long term sustainability received
implementation support only during the last stages of the project, in spite of supervision raising this issue several
years earlier. Also the project did not foster linkages with ongoing govenmment schemes to ensure sustainability of
stiffmg arrangements after end of the project. Ignoring World Bank advice, there has been no conscious exit
st.ategy for NGOs/NGIs to wean away dependency of VFCs for account keeping and collection of dues. There is
still need for empowering communities to take their own decisions by removing some level of control still
exercised by the park staff on community funds with VFCs.
At GHNP, the process of formation of VFCs and micro planning left much to be desired. The institutions created
uider the project were neither inclusive, nor transparent nor accountable to communities. Much of the investment
of Rs 30 million on ecodevelopment dealt mostly with conventional hierarchical approach and there is no evidence
of-reciprocal commitments. The Village Development Committees (VDCs) created during the project became
defunct.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The SAR cost estimates, especially the program accounting aspects and the inclusion of price and physical
contingencies, were not part of existing government accounting systems and practices and were not well
understood or carefully considered by the Government. Unbeknown to the task, team, the original internal
government budget provisions did not provide for price and physical contingencies on any of the components. The
SAR summary cost tables and disbursement allocations, and consequently the national-level budget did not show a
detailed break-up of costs between KMTR and GHNP (the intention was to allow for flexible allocation between the
tNvo parks based on actual utilization), although there were separate detailed cost tables for the two sites.
Furthermore, the MOEF policy and planning and biodiversity research costs were inadvertently excluded entirely
in the original Government budget for the project. While the available budget towards most investment cost items
hive been utilized, provisions towards studies and consultancies have been under utilised. The KMTR awareness
program significantly exceeded the small initial estimates, but this expenditure was well-justified in view of its
highly beneficial impact. The formal government budgets for project activities relied on traditional budget
categories and did not incorporate the extra coding that would enable accurate compilation of costs by components
and foster financial management adjustments based on program cost-effectiveness. The proportion of tecurrent
costs was higher than original expectations due to the two year extension of the project period, which, in
combination with delayed submission of reimbursement claims while the Indian currency was devaluing, resulted
in a higher than expected proportion of govemment financing of the total project costs.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Research, Education and Extension: Likely. The project has enabled ICFRE to achieve a major upgrade of staff
skills on a broad front, it has greatly improved the level of scientific equipment and it has enhanced computer
literacy at all levels. New facilities have been constructed at several centres. Most importantly, research staff are
more confident and more outward-looking and are intent on maintaining their new intemational contacts.
Education and extension experience and capacity has increased. Despite the fact that ICFRE has to cope with GOI
downsizing policies, and must soon make major decisions in this respect, the groundwork has now been laid for
steady movement of ICFRE towards a more professional and productive research agency.
E'olicy and Planning: Mixed. There was no sustained increase in capacity, but the impact of some of the studies
h as contributed to policy reforms.



Ecodevelopment: Likely. The sustainability of the processes and large proportion of the institutions created
under the project at KMTR and GHNP are rated as likely and uncertain respectively, with the sustainability of the
impact overall component being rated as likely due to its influence on ecodevelopment throughout India. At
KMTR, thanks to the dedicated efforts of park staff, the project has helped in creating a shared vision among
communities for conservation which incorporates local interests in the water resource benefits of watershed
management. This shared vision will ensure that conservation agenda will receive high priority among local
communities, even without continued community specific support from the Forest Department. At least two thirds
of the VFCs at KMTR are vibrant, inclusive and transparent. These are backed up by growing resources in their
community fund. GHNP has shown substantial improvement since the Credit closure with regard to sustainability
of specific activities. The BioDCs has now been operationalised and has started generating its own resources. The
women self help groups are showing positive potential. However, continuing controversy associated with the
settlement of rights has prevented the widespread collaboration and support for conservation originially envisaged
for GHNP. In spite of the shortcomings at GHNP, at the conceptual level for the nation as a whole, the positive
potential of ecodevelopment has now been demonstrated.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Research, Education and Extension. Part of the agreement between the World Bank and Government of India
(GOI) at inception of the project was an undertaking by GOI that the level of funding required by FREEP would be
maintained after the termination of the project. Although the budget for the next Five-Year Plan has not yet been
finalised, there are informal indications that this agreement will be honoured. A critical element for the future will
be the availability of government budget and other funding sources, as well as efficient clearances, for ongoing
interaction between ICFRE stiff and overseas specialists. ICFRE staff need to continue their professional
development through participation in overseas conferences, courses, and other programs, and to also benefit from
visits of overseas specialists to India, and for ICFRE programs to strengthen incipient twinning relationships with
overseas institutions. Given the success of the research grant and extension grant programs, their continuation with
government funds will also be important.
Ecodevelopment. Transition arrangements at both KMTR and GHNP are inadequate. Based on the experience of
other Bank-financed forestry projects, arrangements for KMTR are likely to improve within the next year or two,
but only after an unnecessary period of decline, which could still be minimized by prompt action by the State
Government. This would require a small amount of financial support and posting of essential staff, as well as
continued capacity building support, reviewing and revamping of non-performing VFCs. At GHNP, there is need
for strategic communication to win over antagonists and gain the support of allies. In this context, some key
activities would include: (i) continued capacity building of women groups; (ii) successful demonstration of income
generation activities on the ground; (iii) extension of coverage to other left out poor forest department
communities; (iv) improved communication and relationship with wider range of stakeholders; and (v) closer and
effective linkages with other government agencies to channel resources to the benefit of forest dependent
communities. If such steps are undertaken, the likelihood of sustainability of GHNP could be marginally improved.
However, national and state level policy and legal changes regarding the sustainable use of park resources by local
communities may be needed if there is to be a viable incentive and regulatory framework over the long-term.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank Preparation and Appraisal.
Research, Education, Extension, Policy and Planning: Satisfactory. Project preparation and appraisal were
satisfactory, altiough progress in the initial two years would have been better if the limitations of MOEF/ICFRE
administrative capacity had been more effectively addressed.
Ecodevelopment: Satisfactory. Project identification process responded to the government policy on biodiversity
conservation. The Bank helped arrange for technical assistance in preparation by supporting formulation of
indicative plans based on field realities. Given the pilot nature of the project and its innovative process-oriented
design, the Bank team did well to define only the overall framework and allowed for flexibility in implementation
- 12 -



based on ground realities.
Compliance with Bank Policies and Procedures. Satisfactory, with some difficulties in procurement and
financial management as described in sections 3.5 and 5.4 above. Safeguard policy compliance on indigenous
people, resettlement, and environmental assessment was not well documented but proved adequate. Additional
dccumentation prior to appraisal would have been required to meet current Bank standards for safeguard policies.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, Bank decisions were appropriate at both staff and management levels. Declaration of the project in the
problem stages during the mid-term review was an important step. This proved beneficial since it helped the
borrower refocus its attention on project implementation issues. The declaration and associated follow-up was
rated favorably by two Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviews of supervision, first with a highly satisfactory
rating for overall supervision in FY98 and then a highly satisfactory rating for supervision inputs in FY99. The
Bank's decision for extension of Credit by two years was essential to consolidate the institutional achievements and
ensure sustainability both within ICFRE and within the KMTR VFCs. Project implementation did not involve
deviations from Bank policy. Involvement of a financial expert in field visits on an ongoing basis would have
assisted financial management.
Research, Education, Extension, Policy and Planning: Satisfactory. The Bank supervision missions were
carried out on schedule and included competent technical personnel who tried hard to provide constructive input to
research programs and the resolution of administrative problems. The Task Leaders and procurement staff
piovided strong support and prompt feedback between missions via email. While MOEF could have given the issue
greater attention, more action might also have been taken if Bank staff in Delhi had had the time to monitor fund
management more closely and provide training in procedures where necessary.
Eecodevelopment: Satisfactory. Successive Bank's supervision missions, through the sheer commitment, helped
fccus attention of the government and the park management on priority issues. The implementing agency clearly
acknowledges the contribution of Bank teams in raising constructive debate on critical issues. The skills mix on
missions was appropriate, except for the fact that attention from procurement and financial specialists was minimal
diie to the small size and remote locations of the activities. The clecision to not extend the GHNP component
beyond the original closing date was appropriate.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Siatisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Research: Satisfactory. However, plans for procurement and financial management were inadequate.
Ecodevelopment: Satisfactory. The project represented an innovative departure from conventional approaches.
Still the borrower took a long term view of the sector in preparing the project with active collaboration and
participation of key stake holders.
7 S Government implementation performance:
Research, Extension, Education, Policy and Planning: Unsatisfactory. Slow sanctions for certain activities and
expenditure, and slow release of funds by MOEF was a handicap for most of FREEP, and most damagingly in the
later stages. The rigidity of the budget, in combination with a lack of overall project coordination, prevented
flexibility in implementation in response to changing opportunities. The high staff turnover in ICFRE meant that
the initial training in disbursement and procurement procedures by the Bank was ineffective. Frequent senior staff
changes and failure to rapidly appoint a new Director General during 199-2000 left ICFRE devoid of proper
Ieadership at a critical time. Despite frequent references to this issue in supervision reports little action was taken
to rectify the problem until crisis situations were reached. At the close of the project, the audit for the MOEF
omponent was two years overdue, which meant that project expenditures of that component during those two
-13 -



years were ineligible for financing.
Ecodevelopment: Unsatisfactory. At KMTR, Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) did support the project
philosophy in general, but its performance was below par in according sanctions and releasing funds in a timely
manner. The Government withdrawal of all field staff involved in village ecodevelopment at the end of the project
has also been harmful. On the positive side, GOTN has taken care to appoint senior field managers who have the
interest, commitment, integrity, and other skills needed for this innovative undertaking. At GHNP also, the park
did not receive adequate and timely support from the Government of Himachal Pradesh (GOHP) for sanctions,
timely release of funds and institutional arrangements.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Research, Education, and Extension: Satisfactory. At mid term review (MTR) the rate of progress was most
disappointing, and FREEP was classified as a problem project for ten months. Some of the obstacles were outside
the control of ICFRE, such as responses to the Supreme Court ruling on tree felling, which held up establishment
of SPAs, and a number of difficulties were encountered in gaining access to land for developing new facilities at
Shimla and Jorhat. It is to the credit of ICFRE that it then made a determined effort to get the project moving, and
good progress was made in subsequent years, in spite of ongoing obstacles at the government level regarding the
appointment of a director general and fund flow.
Policy and Planning: Unsatisfactory. In this small component, MOEF was unable to administer the study
contracts and the audits in a timely manner, and was not able to use the project resources for to create sustainable
improvements in its policy and planning capacity.
Ecodevelopment: Satisfactory. The implementing agency at KMTR were highly committed and dedicated to the
project philosophy. The tireless efforts of the project teams despite hurdles in the field (due to initial reluctance of
local communities) and inadequate and untimely fund flow support (e.g., from GOTN), greatly contributed towards
successful project outcomes. At GHNP, the performance of implementing agency remained unsatisfactory for much
of the project period. How ever, performance started to improve in the last year of the project prior to the
Government action on settlement of rights, and in 2000 and 2001, after project closure on December 31, 1999,
began to improve again.
Financial Management in All Components. Although there were no serious crises in financial management in
spite of the poor overall project coordination, audit covenants have been in violation on account of delayed
submission of audit reports, as noted in several mission reports. This resulted in the temporary discontinuance of
disbursements to States and MOEF on several occasions. There were some audit disallowances made by the
Auditor General's Office in most reports due to misunderstandings between the states and the national government
on the responsibility for counterpart budget and on the fact that that only Bank's share, not the central
government's share could be included in a reimbursement claim. Corrections on these misunderstandings and
other errors required the recovery of about Rs 12 million from the claims.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Satisfactory. After early difficulties FREEP has been a successful project, largely achieving development
objectives and output targets.
8. Lessons Learned
Overall
* Openness to proposed extensions of closing dates by Bank management can be desirable. The two year
extension proved worthwhile in that it enabled ICFRE and KMTR to achieve most of their objectives.
*   The provision of adequate Bank supervision budget was essential to the success of this project, given its
institutional focus, its innovative features, and its complexity.
*   Design of a project involving multiple implementing agencies should not rely upon overall coordination by a
- 14 -



national ministry, unless that ministry has already demonstrated its capacity for such coordination.
* Good financial management requires (a) the active involvement of a financial management specialist
throughout the project cycle, (b) the full participation of financial officers of all implementing agencies as well
as the project-wide coordination entity in cost estimation and budget preparation and processing, with
pre-project adjustments of the financial management systems to incorporate categorization by activity and to
permit appropriate delegation of authority, (c) ongoing arrangements for training and handover as needed to
accommodate staff tumover, (d) attention to and accountability for quality financial management by
govemment throughout implementation.
ICFRE
The major lessons leamed were as follows:
*   Administration of the ICFRE activities were over-centralised in Dehra Dun. For example, more consultation
with regional Institutes, decentralized procurement of small works and goods, and earlier delegation of
responsibility for administration of the Research Grants Fund would have improved performance.
*   A one-year preparatory phase in which extensive staff briefings and training programs were held, detailed
activity and development plans were prepared and all agreed staff positions filled, might avoid startup
problems in future projects. Altematively, completion of these activities with project preparation financing
could be treated as conditions of appraisal.
*   Project resources for buildings would have been better utilized if plans had been based on existing rather than
sanctioned staff levels.
Ecodevelopment/PA Management
*   Conservation awareness can be created among communities if a shared vision can be communicated around a
commonly understandable and simple theme. Awareness programs need ongoing reinforcement.
*   Experiences in ecodevelopment have shown that there can be effective incentives without Joint Forest
Management benefit sharing. What the people need is a sustainable altemative livelihood system which can be
created by micro finance, linked micro enterprises and a revolving fund linked to self-help groups.
*   Sustainability considerations must be thought through right from the very beginning of the project. This
includes sufficient care in the process of formation of groups/institutions, capacity building efforts and having
a conscious exit strategy for extemal inputs (including NGOs/NGIs).
*   Women are the most potent and effective agents for furthering the conservation agenda. Women SHGs or
credit groups are a very powerful means for mobilizing women, improving their confidence and empowering
them. If the SHG formation process is initiated at early stages of the project, then more effective linkages are
possible with local level institutions to make them more inclusive, transparent and accountable.
*   Subdividing large and diverse committees into small homogeneous sub-groups with shared interests and
similar types of dependency on the protected area has been another important means of strengthening
inclusion.
*   Free access of village communities to project officials (particularly senior officers) is an important element in
weeding out corruption, improving confidence levels of communities and ensuring transparency in the system.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from ICFRE: The Implementation Completion Report of "Forestry Research Education and
Extension Project" prepared by World Bank is a comprehensive document based on thorough and independent
scrutiny of different activities of the project byWorld Bank ICR Mission lead by its Consulant Mr. Frlank
Mckenill. The document compiled after detailed interaction with research managers, scientists, NGOs, stake
holders and beneficiaries bring alive the facts, achievements, contributions, drawbacks, deficiencies and lessons
- 15 -



learnt as experienced under the project implemented over a period of seven (7) years. The ICR represents the facts
and experiences under the project in a balanced and truthful manner and does not hesitate to be critical wherever
the achievements were less than the desired. The report very clearly highlights the difficulties and constraints at
different levels due to which implementing agencies could not make the achievements as anticipated and expected
at the time of appraisal. This report gives a detailed account of lessons learnt by.borrower as well as the donor.
The lessons learnt during the course of implementation of this project will prove very useful to all the key players
and are being accepted in the right spirit. The Council will be immensely benefited by taking corrective steps as
suggested in the report, while implementing new externally aided projects. The report based on the comprehensive
completion report of ICFRE is a useful collection of all the major achievements and developments made under the
project and will serve as institutional memory. Besides the physical achievements made under the project, the
report clearly highlights the vast improvement made in the basic capability of the Implementing Agencies in
executing big projects besides giving them a leadership in their respective fields of forestry and biodiversity
conservation. The report will serve as a useful guide to all the project implementing agencies in future.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
A. Outut/lImnact
OutconielImpact Indicator                  |Baseine                 SAR/MTR Expectation         |Actual(December 2001)
Outcom cl: To strengthen the capacity of natlonal and state Insditutons to phan and undertake prlority research 7ro  ams
Forestry Research more relevant and effective  No prioritization, and no  Participatory priority setting  Prioritization methodology finalized in
comprehensive plan.     mebtdology in place by mid-   March 1998 and National Forestry
1995, research plan based on  Research Plan finalized in May 2000.
prioritization developed by mid  New studies based on NFRP initiated.
1996 and under implementation  Research Advisory Groups are reviewing
for 3 years.                  the projects at aDl Institutes. 90 research
projects submitted to domestic and
external donors for funding.
Informaion System efficiently provides information  Most data manual difficult Information system including  All IFRIS modules designed, and bugs
needed to manage ICFRE finanres and research  to access, organize and use. program budgeting developed by  being addressed Financial Accounting
progmm and to use ICFRE library system.                             mid 1996 and used for three years.  System and other modules being installed
but not fully operational.
Monitoring and Evaluation system for research  No systematic quality  Monitoring and evaluation    Evaluation of all ICFRE institutes by
projects is in use for research planning and  control of research   conducted in early 1995,1997,  Winrock specialists conducted in
manageinent                                  activities.            and 1999.                       1997 and 1998, with follow-up
actions tracked. A systen of review
by 21 Chief Technical Advisors and
others is increasing quality control.
M&E module is designed and records
of projects entered. Physical
monitoring is also now taking place.
Completion and operation of Human Resource  Human resource          Human Resource Development    HRD draft plan was prepared in
Development Plan improves nianager and efficiency  development handled in  Plan finalized in 1996 and in use  December 2001. ICFRE is examining the
and effectiveness, strengthens staffincentives for  ad hoc manner,  for 3 years.                  draft through an in-house committce. It
research careers, and ensure staff expertise is geared                                            wil be finalised at a workshop scheduled
to prioritized research agenda.                                                                   for April 2002 after incorporating the
views of various regional Institutes.
Library upgraded and information accessible  Library facilities and  Library upgraded by 1995 and  New fibrary facilities fuDy functioning
materials out of date and  used for more than three years  in 1999, but access by Shimia and
inadequate.                                           Jorhat limited by infrastructure
constraints. Bibliographic database
available on website Joumal article
request service working well
Establshing a planting stock improvement pmgram  Poor quality planting  SAR 2000/ MTR 1200ha seed  1226 ha SPA, 344 haSSO, 166 ha
through out India in order to provide a base to  stock and virtually no  production areas (SPA), SAR  CSO and 56.6 ha VMG completed.
improv,: the genetic productivity of planting stock.  reliable sources of  1000 / MTR 300 ha seedling  Maintenance is underway. The steps
genetically superior seed  seed orchards (SSO), SAR 1000  have been initiated to ensure the use of
of domestic cultivars.  / MTR 150 clonal seed orchards  their full potential and sustainable
(CSO) and SAR 240/ MTR 50     maintenance and to project their
ha vegetative multiplication  potential impact
gardens (VMG).
Availali dty of improved planting stock (e.g., root  Variations in planting  8 modem nurseries, reduced to 5 at  All new ICFRE experiments requiring
trainers. Compost, genetically known provenance)  stock quality undermine  MTR.                   seedlings use improved stock. Eight
for experiments and demonstranion.          reliabDlity of research                               model nurseries are now operational
findings.                                             but some now need to evolve from
production to research focus.
Establish Research Grant Fund to support small  No support for research  Establish in 1994, with good  Out of 225 RGF projects 200 are
research initiatives outside of ICFRE.      outside of ICFRE.       selection and evaluation      complete and 108 final reports received.
procedure.                    7 projects were conduded midway and 3
projects were tem-inated based on
recommendations of experts and RGB.
15 projects could not begin. Final reports
are awaited from regional Institutes for
decentralised projects. The projects are
-17 -



imnplemnented by Universities, NGOs,
state forest departmtents and industries on
the basis of established selection criteria
and procedures.
Research program produces information and    Research mandate of each  31 research programs meeting  The 31 research programs with 76
technology to improve understanding of forest  institute and objectives of  clearly defined objectives as  subprojects were undertaken by ICFRE
production system, ensure sustainability and  research programs not  specified at appraisal and    Institutes. Most ofthe research projects
increase forest productivity.                always clearly defined.  consistent with research mandate  and subprojects are complete in terms of
of each institute.            the project objectives set for the project
period. Somfe of the projects will continue
further to achieve specified longer term
objectives.
Outcome 2: To improve the extension of research  dings
Potential users have access to and adopt forestry  ICFRE has virtually no  Extension linkages with state  All ofthe 23 ESF projects have been
research findings.                           extension program, few  forest departments and private  completed. The ESF projects were
findings are disseminated,  sector established.       undertaken with the help of SFDs, NGOs
and even fewer are                                    and Universities. About 18 research
adopted.                                              findings adopted by SFDs and 25 private
organisations, licensing of 7 technologies
being marketed. Extension activities have
increased but their impact requires
evaluation. ICFRE extension strategy has
been finalised and regional Institute
extension plans also developed but not
yet implemented. Provision has been
made for this in the Plan budget.
Outcome 3: To improve the system offorestly edation in research and academic Insitutons
System for forestry education in research and  Existing curricula does  Revise M.Sc. curricula by mid  The University and school level curricula
academic institutions improved.              not adequately meet     1996 and provide 775 person    developed and communicated to different
needs of National Forest  years of research fellowships  Universities for adoption. The Ministry of
Policy. Fellowship      over life of projects.        HRD has been requested through MOEF
awards through Deemed                                 to communicate the school curricula to
Forestry University                                    different school boards for adoption. 912
limited,                                               person years of research fellowships
granted. The I 0th Five Year Plan budget
proposals will include support for this
acivity. The strategy study comparing
post-graduate forestry education systems
in other countries with Deemed
University planned for the post project
period.
Outcome 4: To improve the policy analsis and project preparaton capabities within the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and to develop a
suppodngsfor_stry statistical service
Improved policy analysis and project preparation  MOEF has little    MOEF capability strengthened, 3  Little change in MOEF capability but 3
capabilities within                          capability to analyze   policy studies and 3 project   policy studies completed and are
Ministry of Environment and Forests.         policies or prepare     preparation reports completed.  influencing evolving policies. I project
projects and no resources                              preparation report completed but it has
to commission policy and                               not led to new project or significant
project preparation                                    organizational reform.
studies.
Forestry statistical provides reliable and timely  No forestry statistics  Statistical service established.  Forestry Statistics for 1988-1994, 1995,
source of forest sector infoumation.         compiled and published  Backlog eliminated. Annual     1996 and 1997-98 completed. Forestry
since 1987.             reliable compilation offorestry  Statistics 2001 (covering 1999-2000) is
statistics.                   in preparation.
Outcome5: To develpand test on pilotbasis m   thodsforconservadon of biological resources in protected areasthrough ecodevelopment.
Ecodevelopmnent approach (of involving local  Ecodevelopment         66 communities with 50,000    In KMTR, 132 committees with over
communities in planning and implementation of  approach not yet      households (not all of whom are  18,000 forest dependent households
programs to generate altemative resources or  pioneered on a large scale  forest dependent) participating in  involved in ecodevelopment Based on
income) functioning in two protected areas and  covering an entire   Kalakad Mundantharal Tiger    small preliminary survey, 93% of
lessons of pilot applied.                    protected area.         (KMTR) and 1200 forest        member households and 40% of
dependent households          non-niember householders have given up
participating in Great Himalayan  forest fuel sources; headloads have
National Park (GHNP).          reduced by 86% and the # of cattle
- 18 -



grazing at KMTR has been reduced by
86%. Remote sensing data further
documents improved forest condition.
In GHNP, 1200 households involved but
committees now defunct GHNP
component not extended because full
achievement of objective in that location
unlikely due to increased legal
restrictions on park use.
Ecodevelopment has influenced design of
the 7 site Ecodevelopment Project and
activities in several state forestry projects.
Improverm ents in planning and managament of PAs  Confrontational   More collaborative relationship  More collaborative relationship with
relationship with local  with local people, improvement  local people, reduced offences, reduction
people, no linkage to  in environmental status,       of environmental degradation, effective
ecodevelopment, and     arrangements for habitat     environmental education prograrm and
inadequate support for  improvement activities to benefit  improved team spirit within staff at
envimnmental education,  local people, and improved   KMTR. Visitor and enclave
visitor and enclave     environmental education,      management analyzed and associated
management, and staff   improved visitor and enclave  action plan to be considered shortly.
skdils                  management, increased staff   Results from project on GHNP PA
skills.                       management have been minimal.
Biodiversity Studies.                       No comprehensive        Baseline ecological and       Baseline research completed (although
ecological and          socio-ecological research     not fully accessible to KMTR).
socio-economic research  completed and monitoring     Monitoring system established in GHNP
and monitoring in       system established. Protected  and being established in KMTR.
protected areas. Baseline  area strategy study completed by  Protected area strategy study was
study on protected areas  1997.                       complted in 2001 and has been found to
needs updating to serve as                            be satisfactory.
basis for recommending
conservation strategies at
national, state and local
levels.
B. Outbuts
Outcome/impact Indicator                     Baseline               SAR/MTR Expectatdon           Actual (December 2001)
Research iraff                                Research understaffed  78 incremental posts and 775  29 incremental posts created and 72
research fellows              positioned by diverting incumbents from
other positions. Research fellowship
provided with plans to continue
post-project
ImprovmLent in resarch facilities, buildings,  Facilities and equipment  Civil works of different types  28 major civil works worth Rs. 505
equipment and infrastructure.                inadequate to research  work Rs. 382 million and      million completed but some not fully
requirements.           scientific equipment and      utilized by ICFRE due to limited staff
fumiture work Rs. 342 million.  numbers. Scientific equipment and
accessories and fumiture procured worth
a total of Rs. 380 million.
Improved skills and understanding            Limited access to training  310 slots in intemational training,  Out oftotal of 483 slots (313 training,
plus unspecified quantity of local  170 study tours) 403 slots (271 training,
tramining.                     132 study tours) were utilised up to Dec
2001. The remaining slots could not be
used due to non-clearance by GOI.
NGO partnership: Partnership arrangements with  No partnership between  Partnership envisaged, especially  9 NGOs involving 56 individusls
NGOs at Calakad Mundantharai.                NGOs and state forest   at KMTR                       involved but new arrangements needed
department staff                                      to evolve role and ensure post project
sustainabiity of ecodevelopment
Inclsion of most forest dependent households:  Not specified         Not specified                 23578 members (67% of total VFC
Number of most forest dependent households in                                                      members) are most forest dependent
_ 19 -



Vilbae Forest Consete  as patiot of loal.                                                             ("red group). Henoe VFCs cover 95%
of the I X408 mswt forest dependent
houscholds in these communitis
Recat initiatives with Self-Help Groups
arem ft    inceasing nvolvementof
these households
Contribution of local peopb   Peege of         Not upeeld                                             Al KMTR. 24% of the total value of
contibula ftom people.                                                                                nignal investment has been conributed
by local people. In addibon, al project
altemative livelihood and bionm
proidtion investments being  paid at
12% interest into VFC revolving find for
furt investments benditing local
people. 168 mostly womn self help
Srups finctional with a total asset base
ofalmost S1 6,ODO within one year.
-20-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Anex 2A
Project Cost by Component
USS million     USS mlllbn
Appraisal       Actual          Actual as % Appraisal
ICFRE
Research Management
Development of ICFRE                     4.52             5.71              126%
Extension Support                        1.51             1.70              112%
subtotal                              6.03            7A1               123%
Research Program Support
Research Programs                       16.26            18.12              111%
Planting Stock Improvement               5.15             3.98               77%
Library and Information Systems          5.88             4.94               84%
Research Support Systems                13.34            12.84               96%
Forestry Statfstics                      0.36             0.23               63%
subtotal                             40.99           40.12               98%
Education and Training
FRI Deemed University                    1.87             1.86               99%
Total ICFRE                          48.89           49.38               101%
MOEF
Policy and Planrnng                      2.31             0.61               26%
Biodiversity Research and Studies        0.94             0.54               58%
subtotal                              3.25            1.15                35%
KMTR
Ecodevelopment                           1.92             1.54               80%
PA Management                            0.47             1.20              256%
subtotal                              2.39            2.75               115%
GHNP
Ecodevebpment                            1.26             0.93               74%
PA Management                            0.69             0.67               97%
subtotal                              1.95            1.60               82%
GRAND TOTAL                               56.48            54.88               97%
-21 -



Annex 2B
Procurement (Appraisal Estimate) (USS million equivalent)
ICB     IDA      NCB        IDA        Other       IDA         Total      IDA
Works                                                   10.00       (7.5)       1.00        (.8)       11.00     (8.3)
Goods                                  7.60    (6.1)     1.00        (.8)       2.10       (1.7)      10.70      (8.6)
Services (Consultancies and Training)                                          15.90      (15.9)      15.90     (5.S9)
Miscellaneous
PSIP                                                                         2.60      (1.9)        2.60      (1.9)
Research and Extension Grants &                      2.00        (1.8)       6.70        (6.)       8.70      (7.8)
Ecodevelopment Support
Inaemental operating costs                                                   7.50      (4.5)        7.50      (4.5)
Total                                  7.60    (6.1)    13.00      (10.1)      35.80      (30.8)      56.40      (47.)
Procurement (Actual/Latest Estimate) (USS milion equivalent)
ICB     IDA      NCB        IDA        Other       IDA         Total      IDA
Works                                  0.00      (.)    10.31      (6.38)       2.98      (1.84)      13.29     (8.22)
Goods                                  7.13   (7.13)     0.98       (.78)       3.17      (1.79)      11.29     (9.71)
Services (Consultancies and Training)  0.00      (.)     0.00         (.)      13.63     (13.45)      13.63    (13.45)
Miscellaneous
PSIP                                0.00      (.)     0.00         ()        1.39      (1.54)       2.19     (1.54)
Research and Extension Grants       0.00      (.)     0.00         C)        3.88      (3.01)       3.91     (3.01)
Ecodevelopment Support              0.00      ()      000         (0)        2.07      (2.64)       3.09     (2.84)
lncemental operating costs          0.00      0)     0.00         (.)        7.49     (3.06)        7.49     (3.06)
Total                                  7.13   (7.13)    11.29      (7.16)      34.61     (27.34)      54.88    (41.64)
Annex 2C
Project Financing by Cornponent (USS million)
Appraisal                    Actual                                Actual as % of Apprasial
IDA     GOV   Total       IDA       GOV      Total     IDA      GOV           Total
ICFRE
Research Management
Development of ICFRE             3.11     1.414.52          3.26      2.45     5.71    105%      173%          126%
Extension Support                1.26     0.251.51          1.17      0.52     1.70     93%      209%          112%
subtotal                      4.37    1.666.03          4.44      2.97      7.41    102%     179%          123%
Research Program Support
Research Programs               13.05     3.21  16.26      15.26      2.86    18.12    117%       89%          111%
Planting Stodc Improvement       3.92     1.235.15          2.80      1.18     3.98     71%       96%           77%
Library and Infomiation Systerns  4.61    1.275.88          4.37      0.58     4.94     95%       46%           84%
Research Support Systems        12.61     0.73  13.34      10.32      2.52    12.84     82%      346%           96%
Forestry Statistics               0.2     0.160.36          0.04      0.19     0.23     18%      119%           63%
subtotal                     34.39    6.60  40.99      32.79      7.33     40.12     95%     111%           98%
Education and Training
FRI Deemed University            1.33     0.541.87          1.34      0.52     1.86    101%       95%           99%
Tota ICFRE                   40.09    8.80  48.69      38.56     10.81     49.38     96%     123%          101%
MOEF
Poiicy and Plannhng              2.29     0.022.31          0.49      0.12     0.61     21%      818%           26%
Biodiversity Research and Studies  0.94   0.000.94          0.48      0.06     0.54     52%        NA          58%
subtotW                       3.23    0.023.25          0.97      0.18      1.15     30%     900%           35%
KMTR
Ecodevesopment                   1.65     0.271.92          1.21      0.34     1.54     73%      125%           80%
PA Management                    0.41     0.060.47          0.95      0.26     1.20    234%      408%          256%
subtotal                      2.05    0.342.39          2.15      0.60      2.75    105%     179%          115%
GHNP
Ecodevelopoent                   1.08     0.181.26          0.78      0.18     0.93     70%      98%           74%
PA Management                    0.59     0.100.69          0.54      0.13     0.67     91%      132%          97%
subtotal                      1.68    0.271.95          1.30      0.30      1.60     78%     110%           82%
GRAND TOTAL                       47.05     9.43  56.48      42.98     11.90    54.88     91%      126%           97%
- 22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
A conventional cost/benefit analysis is not appropriate to FREEP, given its core objective of increasing ICFRE
capacity for forest research. Some attempts have been made to quantify the expected benefits in terms of increased
timber production from one component, the planting stock improvement program. However, this has not been done
in a systematic way. It is more appropriate to report the cost-effectiveness of each component of the project in
achieving its objectives.
Component 1. Research management
There were many aspects of research management where the project had an cost-effective impact. One of the most
outstanding is a large expansion in computer equipment at all institutes and the development of the LAN and
WAN networks. This has been accompanied by major advances in IT policy (none existed before FREEP), the
formation of an IT sub-directorate, and a dramatic increase in computer literacy across the whole organisation. It is
true to say there has been a culture change in this respect. As a result of the huge increase in data collection
stimulated by FREEP-supported research programs, ICFRE now faces an information management problem. This
is a complex issue of database management to ensure that data is properly archived for future use. The challenge is,
however, recognised and is being addressed.
Component 2. Extension
This component has been highly effective in terms of its output of extension materials, its planning of extension
activities and its networking with NGOs and SFDs. It made a conscious attempt to award the grants to outside
bodies under the Extension Support Fund to those that had existing extension programs and facilities, to improve
the probability of success. In this way it also enhanced the likelihood of these organisations continuing to use
ICFRE information in their own programs.
It has produced a wide range of extension programs in several types of medium and in several languages, so the
penetration into different parts of India has been good, although no formal impact study has been undertaken.
Some of the ESF projects were very practical in nature, such as establishment of facilities to train carpenters in the
handling of eucalyptus timber for fumiture manufacture. Not only did the training give the carpenters opportunities
to enhance their income but it also made a contribution to timber resource conservation, as the plantation-grown
eucalyptus could replace more expensive teak from natural forests.
The success of its extension activities under FREEP has encouraged ICFRE to specify that 3% of its total budget in
the Tenth Five-Year Plan will be directed to extension activities. This is a major change in attitude that will deliver
significant benefits to users of research results, often also with significant impacts on poverty alleviation.
Component 3. Research program support
In financial terms, one of the largest components of FREEP was support for institute research programs. Funds
were provided for operating expenses, purchase of lab equipment, software and computers, construction of model
nurseries, facilities such as mist chambers and tissue culture labs. This aspect was generally carried in a
cost-effective manner and has enabled much new data to be collected and many useful results obtained. Some
highlights of the specific reseach studies include the following:
- 23 -



PROJECT       FOCUS       RESULTS                        BENEFICIARIES
Jabalpur
Project 1.     Applied     Selection and propagation of   Germplasm taken up by the State Forest Department
Non-Wood                   superior clones of the oil-yielding  and now in widespread use by farmers in JFM groups
Forest                     grass Cymbopogon martinii.    in MP. Palmarosa oil distilled from the grass is
Products                   Conservation of germplasm of the  providing valuable income for farmers in the JFM
more valuable motia variety.   groups. Germplasm conservation is important due to
decline in natural resources of motia variety.
Project 4.      Applied     Identification of 18 clones of  State Forest Department, commercial growers,
Entomology                 teak that are resistant to     farmers, when clonal seed orchards yield sufficient
defoliator and leaf skeletoniser  quantities of seed or VMGs produce sufficient
that cause large economic losses  propagules.
in teak plantations.
Project 3.     Basic and    Selection of effective strains of  State Forest Departments, commercial growers,
Biofertilisers  applied     VAM fungi and Frankia        farmers, who can achieve significant productivity
occurring on several important  gains using the inoculum developed at TFRI. The cost
forest trees and development of  has been kept down to a low level to promote its use.
techniques of mass production
of inoculum.
Shimia
Project 1. Cold  Applied   Ecological survey providing    GHNP and other Himalayan park managers, small
desert                     recommendations for species to  farmers who grow medicinal plants for sale. These
reforestation              be used for restoration,       medicinal plants are in strong demand
definition of cultural         commercially, so moving production out of park
requirements of high altitude  areas benefits biodiversity conservation and park
medicinal plants.              management, as well as providing economic benefits
to small farmers.
Jodhpur
Project 1.     Applied     Successful site preparation    Poor farmers and graziers who can adopt these
Woody Plant               treatments and selection of     practices to improve fodder production in this
Water                      species adapted to saline and  drought-prone region.
Relations                  periodically waterlogged soils in
a desert environment that are
useful for fodder production.
Bangalore
Project 3.     Applied     Development of effective and   Poor fishermen on the east and south east coast of
Utilisation of             economic technique for pressure  India. Treated catamarans are likely to last for at
alternative                treatment of non-durable timber  least 10 years, compared with one year for those not
timber for                 for use in fishing catamarans.  treated. Also benefits to forest conservation through
catamarans                                                use of alternative species and reduced demand for
timber due to longer service life.
Project I      Basic and    More effective nursery techniques  Farmers and State Forests Departments who are
Research on    applied      for raising sandal seedlings for  now actively establishing sandal plantation
Sandal                      afforestation, selection of superior  following recent legislative changes in Karnataka
breeding populations and       and Tamil Nadu.
-24 -



development of a method for
rapid estimation of sandal oil
content in standing trees.
Coimbatore
Project 4      Basic       Establishment of laboratory    ICFRE tree improvement programs. This facility will
Biotechnology              facilities and training of scientists  enable ICFRE scientists to evaluate the genetic
of trees                  in genetic analysis of forest trees.  diversity of different tree populations and so guide
Analysis of genetic diversity of  selection and breeding strategies, as well as gene pool
teak across India completed.   conservation of important species.
Project 2.      Basic       Elaboration of breeding        ICFRE tree improvement programs. This work will
Reproductive                mechanisms in Casuarina and    enable optimisation of yields from seed orchards and
biology of                  tamarind, and Eucalyptus       assist in overcoming several emerging seed orchard
tropical trees             tereticornis. Work continues on  management problems, such as crossing
several other species.        incompatibility and dispersion of flowering times.
Jorhat
Project 1.     Basic       Compilation of an Atlas of Forest  State Forest Departments, who will now be able to
Ecology of                Insect Pests covering several States identify pest outbreaks and evaluate possible control
evergreen                  of Northeast India, with       measures.
tropical forests          information on their host plants,
occurrence, identification, biology
and damage potential.
Jorhat
Project 1.     Applied     Genetic conservation and       Small farmers, pulp and paper industry. RFRI is now
Ecology of                 improvement of northeast bamboos establishing field nurseries for farmers to carry out
evergreen                  and canes, providing faster growth  mass propagation of high yielding clones of bamboo.
tropical forests           and better pest and disease
resistance in several bamboo
species that are of economic
importance in the region.
Project 2. Seed  Applied    Development of improved nursery  State Forest Departments, private growers, who can
production and              protocols for Gmelina arborea  now produce better quality seedlings in 4 months
germination                 using root trainer technology,  compared with 12 months previously
optimised potting mixes and
fertiliser treatments.
Dehra Dun
Project 5. Tree  Applied   Clonal seed orchards indicate  Farmers in Harayana, Punjab who are currently
improvement                that in shisham, first generation  planting large areas of shisham in agroforestry. The
tree improvement yields are    clones identified by FRI are now being propagated on
increased by 40%.              a large scale by HFD and by an EU-funded
agriculture development project.
Project 6. Forest  Basic    Developed an artificial diet for  Scientists can now use this technique to provide
entomology                  mass rearing of an important   sufficient material for testing against selected natural
defoliator of shisham, Plecoptera  parasitoids, also raised on an artificial diet. Promising
reflexa. This technique is new to  predators/parasitoids will also be mass reared for field
India.                         testing against target pests.
-25 -



Project 1.     Basic       Successful development of      State Forest Departments, commercial growers,
Storage of                 techniques for long term storage of scientists and farmers can now obtain seed at any
forest tree seed           seed of three previously recalcitrant time, where previously viable seed was extremely
species of bamboo, Ulmus       difficult to obtain.
wallichiana, Acer caesium, Grewia
optiva, Michelia champaca.
The project also funded infrastructure development at several centres. It was not always cost-effective. Some of this
development was unfortunately rendered obsolescent by changes in Government policy. For example, additional
accommodation was constructed at Jodhpur for the expected staffing in 1993, but subsequent staff recruitment
freezes, and the recent Government edict that ICFRE reduce its existing staff by 10%, means that some of these
units will never be needed. Similar situations exist at Chhindwara and Hyderabad. It remains a challenge for
ICFRE to resolve such issues in a way that maximises the use of its limited resources.
The PSIP has been a very cost-effective program. The actual costs of the program are moderate when set against
the large potential productivity gains. The program has also leveraged additional investmnent from SFDs on
expanding the area of SPA and CSO, in particular, now that they are better acquainted with the whole concept of
tree improvement.
As an example, in MP, PSIP has encouraged the MPFDC to expand the SPA program beyond the target set for
FREEP and to aim for all plantation seed to come from improved sources from now on. It is reported that the
PCCF has issued an instruction that only improved seed is to be used henceforth.
The Research Grants Fund provided funds for research on matters selected by ICFRE at a number of Universities
and some SFDs. Most of the 200 projects allocated were very successful and a large proportion involved training
postgraduates in some aspect of forestry research. This was a very significant change, and one that ICFRE intends
to continue under Tenth Five Year Plan funding, as it has:
*   Demonstrated the value of contracting out some of its research program to other organisations.
*   Increased the capability of a number of Universities to carry out forestry research, by provision of equipment
and gaining experience for their staff.
*   Increased the pool of trained forestry scientists in India. Although ICFRE has not been able to recruit many of
these people, they have mostly been able to obtain positions in relevant fields, some even internationally.
The RGF was highly cost effective. By contracting out research in this way, ICFRE was able to economically gain
access to scientific skills it did not possess and often did not need over the long term. By using contractors it
avoided the overhead costs associated with hiring permanent employees to do the same work.
Redevelopment of library services was an important aspect of FREEP. Prior to the project, the ICFRE library could
only be described as a disaster area. It was housed in an unsuitable old building, had no computerisation of its
holdings and much of its 100,000 book and journal holdings (some of which is unique) was in poor condition. It
was a highly centralised, stand alone unit that provided very poor service, if any, to regional institutes. In short,
there was no proper scientific literature backup to forestry research and it was a severe handicap to the
performance of high quality research.The situation has dramatically changed as a result of FREEP. It has a new,
modern building. It has enlarged its holdings and the older holdings have been bound or rebound as required, a
book security system has been installed and the catalogue has been placed on the ICFRE website where it can be
accessed by regional institutes or by external users, such as Universities. It has established an inter-library loan
system and regularly circulates contents pages of its foreign journals to other institutes, so that copies of articles of
interest to a researcher can be requested. The only serious shortcoming is that only about 32,000 out of the 100,000
holdings have been catalogued at the conclusion of the project, due to underestimation of the magnitude of the task.
The cataloguing will continue beyond FREEP. The cost of this advance is moderate in view of the critical
importance of literature services to quality research performance.
-26-



Component 4. Forestry education
The evaluation of cost effectiveness in this component is very difficult, as the results will take some time to emerge.
The outcomes of all activities were positive and will have a positive influence on the quality of forestry education
in the years to come. If the forestry curricula for primary and secondary schools successfully make their way
through the complex curriculum approval process, they will have an important influence on the attitudes of the
next generation.
Component 5. Forest policv and proiect preparation
The forest policy component was partially cost effective in that the three consultancy studies and the Forestry
Sector Study have produced good outcomes. Whether the outcomes have an impact depends on subsequent MOEF
actions on the recommendations. However, the funds expended on international training does not appear to have
been cost effective as nearly all the personnel concerned soon moved to other positions, so the value was lost to this
group.
The Forestry Statistics Unit has caught up with the backlog of reporting of national forestry statistics and has
developed a system that should permit the reporting to stay current in future, so it was an effective exercise. It will
continue to be funded under the 10th Five year Plan.
Component 6. Conservation of blodiversitv
At KMTR, where more information is available, the project has been very cost effective. Based on preliminary
surveys, marked reductions (about 80%) in fuelwood extraction from the PA has been achieved over the 7 years of
FREEP and a large number of households assisted into alternative livelihoods through innovative loans at the
village level. These loans have an excellent repayment record and have enabled the pool of funds established by
FREEP to increase from a per capita level of Rs 714 to Rs 987. This increase of about 38%, which is still
increasing, means that in the near future the gains in PA protection will have been made at no net cost.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:                                        .
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/06/1992                  3    Forestry
1   Nat. Res. Management
I   Financial Management
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/24/1993                   2   Forestry
I   Nat. Res. Management
I   Research Management
2    Financial Management
I   Procurement
Supervision
04/30/1995                   2   Forestry                           S             S
I   Nat. Res. Management
10/28/1995                   1- Nart. Res. Management               S             S
I   Nat. Res. Economist
I   Environment
I   Social Development
02/20/1996                   1   Natural Res. Economist             S             S
I   Economist
I   Environment
2   Biological Research
06/05/1996
2   Forestry
2   Environment
1   Natural Resource Management
10/24/1996                   1   Forestry                           S             s
I   Nat. Res. Management
I   Nat. Res. Economist
I   Environment
I   Social Development
06/21/1997                   1   Forestry Technology                U             U
I   Nat. Res. Management
1 Procurement
11/24/1997                   1   Forestry                           U             U
1   Nat. Res. Economist
I   Nat. Res. Management
2   Social Development
2   Park Management
I   Environment
- 28 -



03/31/1998                   1   Forestry                           S             S
I   Nat. Res. Management
05/18/1998                   1   Forestry                           S             S
I   Forest Technology
I   Forest Research
I   Nat. Res. Economist
11/21/1998                   1   Nat. Res. Economist                S             S
I   Economist
02/29/1999                   1   Nat, Res. Economist                S             S
I   Social Development
I   Park Management
I   Micro finance/Gender/NGOs
05/29/1999                   1   Forestry                           S             S
I   Foretsry Technology
I   Forestry Research
I   Nat. Res. Economist
I   Nat. Res. Management
I   Parcticipation Specialist
11/16/1999                   1   Nat. Res. Economist                S             S
I   Social Development
I   Micro finance/Gender/NGOs
05/30/2000                   1   Forestry Technology                S             S
I   Forestry Research
I   Nat. Res. Economist
12/05/2000                   1   Nat. Res. Economist                S             S
1   Environment
I   Social Development
I   Financial Management
05/01/2001                   1   Nat. Res. Economist                S             S
I   Social Development
I   Forestry
I   Forestry Research
11/26/2001                   1   Nat. Res. Economist                S             S
I   Social Development
ICR
2/19/2002                    1    Forestry Research                 S             S
I    Social Development
I    Natural Resource Economist
I    Procurement Specialist
1    Financial Mgmt Specialist
-29-



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              36.0                       118.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                   26.4                        83.8
Supervision                              193                       678.6
ICR                                       11                        45.0
Total                                  266.4                       935.4
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
F Physical                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
2 Financial                          O H OSUOM ON O NA
2 Institutional Development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Environmental                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N O NA
(Z Gender                      OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
D Other (Please specify)       O H OSUOM O N * NA
F Private sector development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
2 Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Ol Other (Please specify)            OH OSUOM O N * NA
- 31-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS OLU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS OS      0 U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       OU     O HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Aide Memoire
2.    Human Resource Development Plan
3.    Institutional Impact
4.    Research Grants Fund
5.    Forestry Education
6.    Forest Policy and Project Preparation
7.    Training Program
8.    Research Consultant
9.    Civil Works
10.   Planting Stock Improvement Program
11.   List of Stakeholders Consulted
12.   Note on Conservation of Biodiversity Components in KMTR and GHNP
13.   Ecodevelopment in Kalakadu Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve, India, Status Report 2002
14.   Borrower's ICR
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8.Summar y of Government Implementation Completion Report
The Government implementation report was prepared by Sh. R.K.Srivatava, ADG (M&E), ICFRE, Dehra Dun,
based on information supplied by ICFRE Institutes, KMTR, GHNP and MOEF (Forestry Wing Policy Division)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Principal performance Ratings
Outcome-Satisfactory; Sustainability- Satisfactory; Institutional Development Impact-Highly satisfactory, Bank
Performance    Satisfactory; Borrower Performance-Satisfactory; Quality at entry-QAG  (if available),
ICR-Satisfactory; Project at Risk at any time - Not applicable
The project has contributed significantly to Institutional development and quality of research in ICFRE and many
of the important components related with Research Management, PSIP and Biodiversity have generated a new era
for the SFDs, farmers and entrepreneur to have best out of best in terms of improved quality seeds and clone stalk
strains. This has developed a confidence and better understanding among researchers and users to share better
technology for better quality research in field.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project are based on the mandate of ICFRE, to advise GOI on the formulation of forestry
research policy and to organize, direct and manage research and education in the forestry sector are in consonance
with National Forestry Policy of India 1988.. The main objectives of the project are to strengthen the capacity of
national and state institutions to plan and undertake priority research program , to improve the system of forestry
education in research and academic institutions and to improve the extension of research findings. Supplementary
objectives are to improve the policy analysis and project preparation capabilities within MOEF, and aim to develop
and test, on a pilot basis, methods for conservation of biological resources in protected areas through
eco-development.
The project is designed as the first phase of a long term process of development of forestry research system that
will ensure that Program are related to priorities for conservation and management for sustainable use as
production by involving researchers, public and private sector users of forest resources and political decision
makers in determination of research priorities of National Forestry Research Plan. The project is also designed to
improve standards of forestry education, for research and staff in public and private sector organization involved in
forestry management. The project designed also provides for training of specialists within the country and
overseas.
Evaluation of Objectives
The objectives is to improve the management and coordination of forestry research at national, state and institute
levels: to strengthen procedures to ensure research priorities are linked to national and state priorities and to
develop National Forestry Plan has created impact on forestry research. Modernization and development of newly
created ICFRE (which is the umbrella organization) and Library & Information System are the most significant in
institution building. Establishment of RGF and ESF is a new innovation in Indian conditions meant to enable wide
participation of SFDs, universities and private sector in the field of research and extension. Development of MIS
and M&E modules has created an impact to achieve the targets in right time and in right directions. Development
of forestry curricula has updated the forestry education. Due to FREEP accounting budgeting get streamlined
and uniform. The program budgeting is in use at ICFRE Hqr and its regional institutes and NFRP document
disseminated in hard copies to all ICFRE institutes, SFDs and various international forestry research
institutes/universities. The comprehensive NFRP document also disseminated on website. Implementation of NFRP
initiated .
- 34 -



Project Components
:Five main components - (i) Research Management (ii) Research Program (iii) Forestry Education in ICFRE; (iv)
Forestry Policy and Preparation within MOEF and (v) Conservation of Biodiversity through eco-development
around two protected areas on each in TN and HP.
Evaluation of Components
The objectives and components were generally realistic and implemented for extension trials, linking RGF & ESF
with NFRP, identified technical and scientific topics for international training, resource generation, quantified key
indicators for monitoring, addressing the identified weakness in SFD's research systems etc. Forestry research
system in India needed investment to upgrade the existing infrastructure and provide additional ones in form of
building and equipment and introduce research management system in tune with modem approaches. Similarly
building up forestry education and extension system was necessary for developing linkages with SFD's,
Universities, commercial and private sector firms, NGOs etc which were lacking in many ways and due attention
was paid to these above mentioned objectives.
Project Situation and Quality at Entry
The forestry research system in India has the potential to make substantial contribution to the development of the
sector in the medium to long term. ICFRE is the main body responsible for forestry research in India and consist of
well-qualified cadre of research staff. Research is also undertaken by State Forest Department, State Agricultural
universities, Non Government Organization, commercial private sector firms. The lack of formal or even informal
linkages between research workers in the institutes and staff of SFDs responsible for the management of the forests
constrains and the dissemination of research results. None of the forestry Institutes in India had up-to-date Library
and Information Service. However, the library at FRI Dehra Dun, had a wealth of books and documents and was
regularly receiving a large number of journals. There were no formally agreed criteria for setting up research
priorities, which were mainly decided on the basis of experience.
There was no medium and long term defined objectives in National Forestry Research Plan. There was no formal
means to attach relative priority weighting to the criteria that were used. There was no coordination between the
research agencies and the users of research results and there was little collaboration in research between the public
and private sectors. There was lack of detailed economic and social analysis of some of the implications of forestry
policy both at the center and state level. Forestry Research system did not live up to its potential to improve
productivity of the sector and the sustainable use of resources. Forestry education consisted only of the training
imparted to personnel of the forest department at various levels, formal education was lacking and need of
development of curricula at school and post graduate level was realized.
Excessive use of PA resources leading to degradation; declining biodiversity and a loss of Wildlife habitat is linked
to human and livestock populations in and around the PAs. Although there are no data, it is likely that
unauthorized extraction of firewood and non-timber forest products is very widespread in many PAs and excessive
exploitation is unsustainable. The present government strategy is to attempt to reduce the pressures on PA
resources by forbidding all use. Unfortunately policies adopted had not been effective and has often led to
confrontation between the wild life authorities and the users of PA resources. The growing awareness in India of
diversity conservation is the most important factor for improved conservation and but few of these experiences
have been analyzed, evaluated or documented. Few of the large numbers of staff in State Forestry Departments
have training in community participation and eco-development. Resources and funds for management of PAs is
limited specifically to eco-development activities.
During the formulation and implementation of the project, care was taken for most of the weakness identified. At
this juncture the quality of the project at entry level can be taken satisfactory.
- 35 -



Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
(a)    The research program support which includes provision of infrastructure, equipments, establishment of
Research Grant Fund, planting stock improvement programme, improvement of library and development of
Forestry Statistics unit within ICFRE contributed to the success of many research program and had significant
impact in strengthening research capacity of the ICFRE Institutes and state forest departments. Periodical review
has improved the level of quality research. The project has generated number of research projects also increased
the number of scientific manpower. A modernization of the library system has fulfilled the researchers and users
need. It has also given a positive impact to the quality of research work by providing a functional modem library
building equipped with all the modem facilities such as stack room, conference room, reading room and reference
room. Introduction of Electromagnetic Security System to control pilferage of books, joumals, periodicals etc is an
added advantage.
Equipments purchased under the project have contributed to the success of many research program and had
significant impact in strengthening research capacity of the ICFRE institutes. RGF has funded 200 projects worth
of Rs 171.08 million. This has generated mutual confidence among the forestry research users and creation of data
bank although this approach was a new innovation in Indian condition but enthusiastic response was observed.
Participation of users, which included the local people, state forest departments, cornmercial organizations and
policy makers, was increased at planning, implementation and utilization stages. The approach of
multidisciplinary and integration of skills available were fully utilized.
PSIP brought about radical change in the production of quality of nursery seedlings and cost effective commercial
nursery production, started. About 100% target is achieved in case of SPA and SSPA and in case of CSO and VMG
it is more than 100%. Eight-model nurseries have been established for catering the regional needs. The amount of
genetic improvement was assumed to be 10 to 15% in yield.. It has generated a scientific temperament in SFDs and
gave extra support for their advancement especially in Tree Improvement Program.
There is positive, achievement of short-term objectives as a result of implementation of research program support
and Biodiversity components. The statistical service was created at ICFRE HQ. Publications are provided to users
on time to help the planning process. So far 28 bulletins of Timber/Bamboo have been published. Biometrical
Assistance has been provided to 98 research.projects of different Institute of ICFRE. Reviewing the World Bank
Aided FREE projects for their statistical soundness.
Training courses for 20 officials was organized on Basic Computer Skills and Statistical Experimental Design &
Analysis. Workshops on Forestry Statistics.and Marketing of Forest Produce were organized. This has created
awareness among the forest growers and users even at the level of farmer. Information technology policy for
ICFRE formulated. Local Area Networks established at all the institutes of ICFRE. It has resulted a saving of Rs 10
million. Training on LAN Server Management attended by 37 scientists/computer personnel of ICFRE organized.
IFRIS developed and FAS, PIS, Payroll are functional at ICFRE institute. Internet services assessable at all
institutes.
(b)    The objective of strengthening the capacity of National and state institutions to plan and undertake
priority research program was in large achieved against the appraisal estimates. Building infrastructure for offices,
laboratories and residences was completed. This capability creation was vital for development of ICFRE.
Development of NFRP and disseminated to SFDs, universities and NGOs has great impact on conservation and
management for sustainable use of forest resources. The document is available on website also.
Developed HRD plan by representatives of different employees association at ICFRE level as well as Institute level.
Representative of the ICFRE HRD committee and Institute level committee reviewed the HRD plan prepared by
respective institutes .The draft report is ready for discussion at ICFRE level as well as Govt level. The committee
has concentrated on identifying all those areas/issues, which remained addressed since inception of the council,
and proposing their sustainable solution to bring improvement in ICFRE functioning, work cultures, career
development and other important issues related to human resource development.
- 36 -



Development of forestry curricula in fonnal education as distinct from training courses laid great stress in
developing the research base in forestry development. Curricula were developed for M.Sc. courses and some of the
universities adopted the proposed curriculum and others have started implementing the same in phased manner.
Curricula and material for inclusion in school and college cunicula is ready. ICFRE is approaching Ministry of
Human Resource Development, Govt of India through Ministry of Environment and Forests for its implementation.
The intemational training slots have been mostly utilized on specific subject. This has broadened their outlook and
afforded new sights into their fields of specialization. The knowledge acquired by fellows had applied in their
research projects and also shared among fellow researchers /with peer groups. The training has developed the
perspective of the scientists and managers and has improved the quality of research. Researchers had submitted
new collaborative projects more effectively than before in the field of training indicating their depth of knowledge
and confidence gained during the training. Local training program were organized in spectacular manner for the
researchers, scientists and forest officers in basic computer skills - 300, ORACLE, LAN, and WAN, Statistics -
183, Research management program - 188, Emotional intelligence-40.
National Forestry Liaison Meeting was held and represented by large number from State Forest Department, Forest
Corporation, sister institutions of ICFRE, forest based industries, and progressive farners to develop for prioritized
projects and the recommendations were drawn.
Under Research System Support, project provided award of research fellowship (34 JRF, 59 SRF and 13 RA).
Under FRI-Deemed university three M.Sc. courses i. Economics Management ii. Wood Science & Technology iii
Environment Management) and three Diploma courses (Plantation Technology, Pulp and Paper Technology and
Biodiversity conservation) are started and running successfully.
(c)    The World Bank, Forestry Research and Education and Extension project has a component, which
provided support for the improvement of research/extension linkages. In this direction, ICFRE initially prioritized
the list of technologies to be disseminated through participation. Out of 24 projects 12 are related to wood
technologies i.e. wood seasoning, treatment of juvenile wood joineries, use of non-conventional timbers and so on.
Seven projects were related to prorogation of bamboos and its proper utilization, which is national's top priority.
All the projects were directly related to conservation and better utilization. Out of 24 projects 14 technologies
planned, developed, and transfenred, 80 entrepreneurs created, 128 industries adopted the developed technologies.
Moreover 48,000 users got benefited at the outcome of extension efforts.
The major aim of extension program of development of research extension linkages involving technology transfer
by communication of research results to State Forest department, creation of public awareness, coordination and
collaborations between users and scientific groups were achieved. Substantial material like films, bulletins, video
films, and brochures were produced and effectively disseminated in workshops, seminars, book fairs and other
public forums as a part of public awareness program. Economically important species brochures and booklet of
ICFRE technologies developed in local language printed A seminar was recently organized to develop the
strategies for extension plan.
(d)     Improving the policy analysis and project preparation capabilities within the Ministry of Environment
and Forests and developing a supporting forestry statistical service: The project partially met the appraisal
expectation. However forestry policy review and project inmplementations by the Ministry of Environment and
Forests are in the process of being implemented.
(e)    Developing and testing on pilots basis methods for conservation of biological resources in protected areas
through eco-development: The project has met appraisal expectation as regards eco-development but the revision of
management plans is behind schedule. 13,000 households are participating in 110 eco-development micro plans
under implementation in KMTR. Management plan is refined. In GHNP 1200 house households are participating
in 16 micro plans. Extensive research has been canied out and presented in multiple volumes. Better
understanding about vital role of PAs on the life of immediate population has been created. As a result, reduction
in biotic pressures on 2 PAs is being noticed. The impact gained under the project in case of two PAs is yet to be
- 37 -



stabilized to serve as a model for wider application.
Institutional development
This is the most significant of the achievements. 30 office and Lab accommodations measuring 28146 In', 210
residential units measuring 17341m1, and 9 units to accommodate visiting scientists measuring 10042 m' were
build up.
Four hundred personnel were sent for international training, 516 professional staff was trained four disciplines and
300 technical staff was trained in computer skills within the country. Large number of consultants, both
International and National, were engaged in bringing about strategically improvement and creating expertise in
various scientific and management fields. Large number of equipments was acquired and majority of them were
imported to upgrade the capabilities of the laboratories.
Under RGF and ESF large number of additional scientific and technical manpower was engaged in research,
education and extension activities. Projects were sanctioned to institutes, universities, SFDs and NGOs by Research
Grant Board (RGB). The projects submitted by the universities, SFDs and NGOs covering most of the forestry
research aspects were selected on the basis of evaluation procedure by involving RGB. 584 projects were received
and 225 projects were sanctioned out of which 25 were terminated in midway. Final report of 110 is received and
for 90 final report yet to be received.
Forestry Research Extension program developed and disseminated for the research findings, innovations and new
technologies to the user groups. For the first time in India an endeavor has been made to prepare a Forestry
Research Extension Program for steering and guiding the forestry scientists, forest managers, extension workers to
canalize their energies for forestry extension. Twenty-four projects sanctioned under ESF have been completed and
the impact assessment data of the projects analyzed. Through RGF and ESF mechanisms, the important ICFRE
objective of building strategic & effective collaboration linkage with other research organizations in the country
significantly achieved.
PSIP provided infrastructure in all ICFRE Institutes for producing high quality planting stock for experimental
purpose which otherwise did not exist. Computerization of ICFRE was possible with the help of FREEP.
Project Formulation Cell created in December 2000 and arranged financial assistance from donor agencies for
funding the projects. At present 12 intemational and 17 national donor agencies funded projects are running, with
90 projects in the pipeline.
Economic gains
Most of the projects are long-term in nature and it is too early to work out the direct economic gains from the
investment. In the long run the increase in forest productivity is expected to be substantial in economic terms.
ICFRE will be able to generate substantial income from the infrastructure and expertise created under the project
towards achieving self-sufficiency in resource generation. 10 to 15% genetic gain is assured in the programme like
PSIP.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
(a)    Factors outside the control of Govt. or Implementing agency: Major delays occurred due to contractor's
failing in providing right consultants on time, and in procurements and employment of consultants due to World
Bank procedures in Indian environment. Delays in overseas training's occurred in FAO making arrangements in
respect of placements, training program, travel arrangements, budget consistency and development of institutional
linkages. There were general initial delays of 2 to 2.5 years in the beginning due to these reasons.
(b)    Factors generally subject to Govt. control: Another major handicap had been non-creation of some of the
incremental staff, continuity of project staff and other administrative problems. Desired strength as per project
guideline was not taken care of.
- 38 -



(c)     Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: Inadequate accounting of expenditure;
non-availability of trained man-power and equipment; power failures, delay in finalizing contracts specially of
buildings and furniture, etc.
(d)    Lack of awareness of the project and infrastructure not matching the project requirement at the early
stage.
(e)    There was no uniform Budgeting System adopted in the beginning.
(f)    Delay in selection of JRF/SRF/RAs.
Sustainability
Government Commitment; Policy environment; Institutional management effectiveness; Social impact and local
participation; and Incentive for participants to sustain Project are favorable and the sustainability can be considered
as positive. Extension of FREE Project for a period of 2 years was a positive step to achieve the objectives of the
project fully without which it would have been difficult to justify the utility of the newly introduced strategies like
RGF, ESF and Eco-development fund under FREEP. Two years bonus has developed confidence amongst scientists
to complete the project as per objective at the same time and infrastructure strengthened.
Bank's and Borrowers Performance
(a)    Bank's: Identification and preparation - Satisfactory; Appraisal - Generally satisfactory;
Supervision-Highly satisfactory; Overall performance- satisfactory. Overall bank support was always positive.
(b)    Borrowers: Preparation-satisfactory; Government implementation performance -Satisfactory;
Implementing agencies; ICFRE - satisfactory with shortcomings; MOEF-just average, Tamil Nadu Forest
Department (KMTR)- Satisfactory; Himachal Pradesh Forest Department (GHNP)- Satisfactory; Wild Life Institute
of India (WLI)- Satisfactory; Overall performance-satisfactory with shortcoming mainly due to external factors.
Lessons Learnt:
(i)    Preparatory phase should be provided before full launch of project
(ii)   Monitoring and evaluation system could have been evolved before launch of the project
(iii)  Research priorities would have been set up very beginning of the project.
(iv)   HRD plan would have been developed earlier for its early implementation. More field and expert oriented
projects would have been identified for specified rather than having narrow base
(v)    Project document, action plan and budget details should be provided to all the functionaries down the line.
(vi)   Expected impact of various work undertaken under the project should be clearly spelled out at the time of
formulation of the project and procedures to verify the claim made by implementing agencies
(vii)  Need to avoid adopting unmanageable volume of work, schedule of work reviews and payment schedules
(viii)  Budgeting of each components should be discussed timely and periodically.
(ix)   RGF projects could have been distributed on the basis of climatic variation equally to the stake holders,
decentralization of power in regards to monitoring RGF projects at institutional levels
(x)    Loading of RIS and M&E module should have been loaded at ICFRE institute level timely to make best
use of the software developed.
(xi)   Physical monitoring system would have been developed at the initial stage because it was found very
effective
- 39 -



(xii)  CTA role could have started since the inception of World Bank
(xiii)  Too many CTAs in tree species is not desirable
(xvi)  More number of species would have been included in PISP
(xv)The   SFDs would have been trained in various technology for planting stock improvement so that control
on the field is effective and econormic
(xvi)  Lack of professionals in NFLC in the beginning of the project and late cataloguing. (xvii) PFC could have
started in the mid of the project to tap more fund to attain the sustainability.
(xviii) Sophisticated equipments would have been under AMC
(xix)  Biodiversity component
(a) Conservation awareness can be created among communities if a shared vision can be communicated
around a commonly understandable and simple theme.
(b) Sustainability considerations must be thought through right from the very beginning of the project.
This includes sufficient care in the process of formation of groups/institutions, capacity building
efforts and having a conscious exit strategy for extemal inputs (including NGOs/NGIs).
(c) Women are the most potent and effective agents for furthering the conservation agenda. Women
SHGs are a very powerful means for mobilizing women, improving their confidence and empowering
them. If the SHG formation process is initiated at early stages of the project, then more effective
linkages are possible with local level institutions to make them more inclusive, transparent and
accountable.
(d) Sustainable altemative livelihood system would have been created by utilizing micro finance with the
help of macro enterprises and revolving fund created by self help group.
(e) Village communities would have been allowed to interact with the officials in weeding corruption,
improving confidence levels.
(f) Various target groups in a village will be better unit for planning rather than the whole village as one
units.
-40 -












Report No.:       24270
Type:    ICR



